ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u1	Resume session. I ask Members to take their seats. I would like to call on Mr Elżbieta Borowska, Mr Małgorzata Golińska, Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz and Mr Krystian Jarubas to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first part of the session will be Mr Elżbieta Borowska and Mr Małgorzata Golińska. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Elżbieta Borowska and Krystian Jarubas. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Agriculture and Rural Development - immediately after the end of the votes, - Economy and Development - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 11, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 11.30, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 13, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Commission for Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: The future of the European Union - immediately after the votes, around 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Cascade Team of the Lower Vistula with special attention to the construction of the next water level near Włocławek - immediately after the votes, around 9.30, - Parliamentary Group for: District Hospitals - immediately after the votes, approx. hour. 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group on Constitutional Governance and the Rule of Law - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Polish cities - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Culture and Tradition of Hunting - hour 16, - Parliamentary Carpathian Team - hour. 17, - Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture - h.m. 17.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u3	Thank you, Member. The competent committees submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act on tourist services and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item heard three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Infrastructure has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Aviation Law Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The formal proposal is made by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u4	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (1) I move for an adjournment. Ladies and gentlemen, for a week now we have witnessed the scandalous narrative initiated by the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, publicly showing her ignorance... [[Uh...]] ...in terms of knowledge, in view of what happened in Jedwabne on July 10, 1941, this outrageous, unacceptable narrative was adopted by Dr. Jarosław Szarek, President of the IPN, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. To my question concerning this murder, this black card in the history of Poland, this crime which was carried out with the participation of Poles, the decisive participation of Poles, the President, the future president, Jarosław Szarek answered: The executioner of this crime was Germany, who used their own terror under the compulsion of a group of Poles. [[They were.]] And here the full responsibility for this crime falls on German totalitarianism. [[Applause]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, those are the words. Dr. Grey. Now let's see what's in the IPN decision... [[Someone finally told the truth.]] ...from 2003: As for the participation of Polish civilians in the execution of the crime, it should be assumed that this was a decisive role in the execution of the criminal plan. The perpetrators of the crime, as perpetrators of the strict sense, were Polish residents of Silky and surrounding areas... [[Traitor, get off the podium!]] ...men of at least 40. Dear Prime Minister, you've been silent for a week. You've been here for a week, too... no, you haven't hidden, and today... the Minister of National Education has appeared. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: I am all the time.]] Why, Mr. President, are you murdering Lech Kaczyński's legend today in terms of building... [[Sit down.]] ...Polish-Jewish reconciliation? [[Get out of here.]] Lech Kaczyński [[♪ The bell ♪]] He said, "Let's not be afraid of the truth...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u5	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u6	...let's not avoid a conscience check.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u7	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u8	It's just an attitude that builds reconciliation. Today's candidacy...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u9	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u10	... Jarosława Shark, today's speech by Anna Zalewska... [[Game in the O.R.]] Marshal: Ladies and gentlemen... [[Sit down.]] Member Michael Szczerba: ...you are destroying the Polish-Jewish reconciliation... Marshal: Mr... Member Michael Szczerba: ...Polish-Israeli. [[Back to your seat.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u11	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u12	The image promotion agency will have a lot of work to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u13	Thank you very much, sir. I take this request as a formal and justification as a vote because it was against Mr Robert Winnicki, and I am voting for him, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an outrage. Those words of Mr Honourable [[Applause]] They're an absolute scandal. Making a complaint to the candidate for president of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Polish Institute of National Remembrance, not the anti-Polish Institute of National Remembrance, [[Applause]] Mr President, from the fact that he wants to practice and practice Polish historical policy - and that is what I wish to the IPN in the new term, so that this is how it looks - and not the historical policy on order of the Federal Republic of Germany... [[Applause]] [[How dare you?]] ...or the Jewish environments making claims against Poland, is as curiosity as possible, sir. [[Get off the podium. Back to school.]] It's a psychic. The fact that the IPN behind Leon Kieres' infamous reigns repeated the propaganda of Jan Tomasz Gross, the liars... [[Yes, sir.]] ...who slanders the Polish people [[Applause]] Your next publication doesn't mean that this is the way it's supposed to be forever... [[Yes, sir.]] ...that the Institute of National Remembrance is to protect the lies of Jan Tomasz Gross. I submit my request against the High House and expect that the anti-Polish historical policy will not be promoted here and that it will be a disgrace for every Polish Member to preach in his speeches. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u15	Thank you very much. A formal request has been made for an adjournment and I will put this request to the vote. [[Sit down.]] [[Berlin.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 152 votes against - 270, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. The next formal application is submitted by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Mr President, I will no longer put my request for a break to the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for letting me know. Indeed, I wanted to make such a request. [[Well, thank you, sir.]] Mr. Winnicki's speech is just scandalous. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u17	Thank you, sir. We refer to item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015 together with the analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy in 2015 and the Commission's draft resolution on discharge presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 700. The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club. The time to ask a question right now is very important. One minute is enough for you, I understand. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The entire budget implementation study resulted, among others. one thing, namely the deteriorating situation of the FUS. We have announced that the Government of Law and Justice will work towards further deterioration of this situation, i.e. restoring the previous version and reducing the retirement age. The subsidy for the FUS from the state budget in 2015 was already PLN 42 billion and this was not enough. The Minister of Finance for the provision of liquidity ZUS granted him an additional loan of PLN 8.6 billion, which should actually fund the state budget for the deficit last year. The total debt of the plant is already PLN 45.3 billion. Question: "Why doesn't the government run, like its predecessors, reliable accounting and doesn't show [[♪ The bell ♪]] the actual state finances and the actual size of the deficit? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u19	Thank you. Another question was asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! The report on the implementation of the budget was combined with the government's report and information on the guarantees and guarantees provided and the report of the National Bank of Poland on monetary policy in 2015. I'd like to ask you a question. In view of the information of the NIK about this and the comments that the situation of the Social Insurance Fund and in general the situation of social security resulting from the deteriorating demography should not be considered in this package also the introduction of annual information on the state's demographic status and its impact on the deteriorating financial situation of the State? If we look at these laws without a demographic context, we won't be able to see the whole situation. I therefore ask the question: do you not think it would be worth introducing information about the state of demography and its impact on the state's finances into this information package, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we can have a full view of the situation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u21	Please. I understand that everything is clear. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.700 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 371 voted against - 55, 9 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015 and on discharge for the Council of Ministers. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 736. The question is raised by Marek Ruciński, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. The bill under investigation based above all on the IOWISZ form is another very good idea. The survey is intended to assess the appropriateness of investments in public health and public health services. But don't you think that the Minister's lack of economically correct valuation of certain procedures will cause chaos in this system? Let me give you a very brief example. The map in orthopedics and trauma doesn't exist. In 2014, the hospital where I work identified epidemiology, demography, needs, equipment and trained staff. The procedure we implemented had a certain amount, a price. After a year it was changed and the entire investment in equipment [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the staff actually took it to the head. Don't you think we should start with an economic evaluation of all medical procedures? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u23	This question is addressed to the representative of the government. At this point the government represents the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Krzysztof Łanda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u24	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! In order to reform health services in Poland, you cannot play a tune on just one key, but you have to play the whole tune on many keys. It's happening right now. At the same time as working on maps of health needs, priorities of regional health policy, valuation, basket, eligibility criteria for individual benefits, we are also working to change the way healthcare providers are financed, so as to move away from the ungrateful patterns that have led to the state of health care in which it is now. [[What's that?]] As far as maps of health needs are concerned, they are an attempt, both to describe demographics, epidemiology, medical staff and infrastructure, to map reality in a model. IOWISZ, on the other hand, addresses, de facto consumes, information from health needs maps, regional health policy priorities and is a tool for supporting decisions, so-called. opinions on purpose, voivodship, so that they can prepare investment plans. This money from the Union, which is in this broad 12-billion-dollar programme, is in fact intended to serve future investments and ongoing investments that will consume EU funds. This tool is such a fifth element, it is a connecting element of all other elements that were previously designed. As I say, it significantly enhances transparency and the reasonableness of spending investment funds so that there is no situation when two hospitals with the same profile are built next to each other or you buy equipment that is never unpacked and never served people with the same profile. Please state, therefore, IOWISZ and this law concern future investments, planned investments and ongoing investments. On the other hand, when it comes to the valuation or pricing of benefits, it is a completely separate project. Of course, if someone is planning an investment, they are counting on this rather than other revenues and are also looking at the benefits tariffs. However, ladies and gentlemen, tariffs are a liquid tool, just as the contents of the basket are a liquid tool, and it will certainly never be so that someone would freeze both the tariffs and the contents of the basket. Therefore, I think that this particular remark is not fully hit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u25	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.736, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 261 voted against - 18, with 154 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Act on public collective transport. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 725. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 725 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 429, against - 6, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Public Collective Transport Act. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 724. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 724, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 434, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals (prints Nos 726 and 731). High Izbo! On 16 June 2016, the term of office of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance of Mr Łukasz Kaminski expired. Therefore, pursuant to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and Art. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, with the consent of the Senate, will appoint the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Mr Jarosław Szark has been nominated as President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Please take the floor of the President of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Mr Jan Draus in order to present his candidacy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! My dearest Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, College of the Institute of National Remembrance, acting on the basis of Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3 of the Act of 29 April 2016 amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National and some other laws, following a public competition, adopted a resolution on the recommendation of the High House by Dr. Jarosław Szark as President of the Institute of National Remembrance. The resolution was adopted unanimously in the full composition of the college. Dr. Jarosław Szarek was born in 1963 in Czechowice-Dziedzice. He is a graduate of the history of the Jagiellonian University. In 2011 he received a PhD in humanities in history at the Pontifical University of John Paul II in Cracow. Between 1992 and 1997 he was a journalist at the Krakow National Remembrance Institute, and since 2000 he has been working at the Office of Public Education of the Krakow National Remembrance Institute. He was one of the closest associates to sleep. Professor Janusz Kurtyki. After obtaining his doctorate he also conducts lectures at the Faculty of Journalism and Social Communication at the Pontifical University of John Paul II in Cracow. It is registered with a significant scientific and publicist acquis. It should be noted that the history of Poland of the 19th and 20th centuries, including the issues of the January Uprising, the Polish-Bolshevik War of 1920, the Polish Underground State in the years of World War II, the issues of the Holocaust and the history of anti-communist resistance in the 1970s and 1980s, is close to its interest. The 20th century. Among the four participants participating in the competition for the position of President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Dr. Jarosław Szarek presented himself as a responsible, dynamic and ideological candidate, and showed good knowledge of the issues related to the statutory activities of the Institute of National Remembrance, correctly diagnosing his positives and shortcomings. In the programme he clearly outlined the priorities of his future activity, emphasising patriotic education, especially the young generation of Poles. During the hearing, on numerous examples, he not only pointed to the shortage of historical education, but at the same time purposefully outlined the way to strengthen the foundations of historical policy for shaping national identity. In this respect, Dr. Jarosław Szarek showed great knowledge, not only historical, but also social. He repeatedly stressed the importance of the Institute of National Remembrance for preserving and passing on our national heritage to future generations of Poles. In the field of research, he showed areas not only well documented in his history, but also new research challenges, to which he included among others. issues: traditions of independence in the 19th and 20th centuries, military issues, matters of universal justice and emigration. He highly assessed the activities of Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk to date in the field of search, identification and commemoration of cursed soldiers. He praised the activities of the Link Foundation and many other associations working to restore the Polish national dignity and spirit of patriotism. The idea of opening up the National Remembrance Institute is also a valuable challenge, not closing itself in bureaucratic procedures and dynamicising the activities of this important institution. This opening of the Institute of National Remembrance in his opinion will also include scientific communities, including regional circles of researchers of recent history. It should be stressed that Dr. Jarosław Szarek clearly advocated making his historians available as soon as possible. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] archival materials, which so far were in the so-called. It's a restricted collection. In answer to numerous questions, he did not respond to historical facts, as he testifies to established historical knowledge and analytical skills. High Seym! A unanimous recommendation to Dr. Jarosław Szark, expressed by the members of the college in a secret vote, confirms that the candidate for the position of President is well prepared to perform this function. Gives a guarantee to raise the prestige of the Institute of National Remembrance. His historical knowledge, personal culture, clarity of assessments, knowledge of the objectives and functioning of this institution constitutes a substantive preparation of the candidate to act as President. Therefore, on behalf of the College, which I have the honour to represent with you professors Tadeusz Wolsza and Sławomir Cenckiewicz, I bring and ask the Sejm of the Republic of Poland to appoint Dr. Jarosław Szark as President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof July in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the request of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, which affected the hands of the marshal, this proposal was subject to an opinion by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, as decided by the marshal. The Commission has examined the resolution and the relevant request made by the College of the Institute of National Remembrance and I would like to inform the High House that the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a positive opinion on the College's proposal to appoint Dr. Jarosław Szark as President of the Institute of National Remembrance. This request was examined by the committee and by 15 Members in favour, with one vote against and three abstentions, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights gave a positive recommendation. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I request that the High Sejm appoint Dr. Jarosław Szark as President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u29	There you go. High Seym! In order to speak at this point, Members have come forward. I therefore propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u30	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! On Tuesday, I had the pleasure of attending a meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, which was about to opinion on Dr. Jarosław Szark's candidacy as President of the IPN at the request of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. I have to say, I was very built up by what I observed there. The opposition representatives were very impressed by how the doctor presented his candidacy, how he talked about Poland's history. You have hungered for this knowledge, I have seen a great satisfaction, a very positive response. However, I was saddened by the fact that a moment later, opposition representatives took their notes, cards, and started asking questions that this spell had taken away from me. These were questions about cases that were expected to be answered in a clear way, about topics that could not be answered in a clear way. Therefore, I ask you very much to support the doctor's candidacy, because there are few people who, despite such a long scientific and public activity, can be accused of so little. I would like you to refer to the doctor's scientific achievements and public activities, abstracting from the political disputes that, unfortunately, took place at the committee meeting. Reject this tendency to be a total opposition, to political warfare, to destruction. Back up the candidate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u31	You're welcome. Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The proposal for Dr. Jarosław Szark to be president of the Institute of National Remembrance should never be made in this House. [[Applause]] We have started today with an embarrassing event, an embarrassing speech by Mr Winnicki and the fatal behaviour of your PiS Members. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's embarrassing to see Honestly perform.]] You are, as I understand it, believers in order to start a really lasting war with historical truth in Poland. [[Embarrassing was Honest.]] [[Don't yell.]] You want to introduce in Poland an extraordinary thing, namely one valid state truth... [[Historical truth, not state truth.]] ...about the history of Poland, Poles and Poles. Dr. Jarosław Szarek denied the crime in Jedwabne, moreover, when he was running for president of the Institute of National Remembrance, he denied the long-term investigation of the Institute of National Remembrance, which resulted in the recognition that the direct perpetrators of this crime were Poles. It was a dramatic investigation. Attempting to challenge in the name of some national interests of the testimony of 111 witnesses can lead you after joyful applause only to one thing: in the next stage you will have to burn these books that talk about things that are uncomfortable for Polish history. [[Applause]] One would like to say, because Dr. Jarosław Szarek is a graduate of the Jagiellonian University, about locus fatalis. [[Applause]] Graduate of President Andrzej Duda breaking three times the constitution, graduate of Zbigniew Ziobro crossing the board of directors normal over the property of his child and giving away his money instead of giving 500 PLN on his own salary to others. Mr Piotrovich breaking the principles of the democratic rule of law and the rules of the Sejm in every law of the sitting. Mr. Marshal Terlecki. There's a long way to go. You could say locus fatalis. [[Applause]] Poor Academia Cracoviensis. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that you will be infecting every institution of the Polish state with your ideology. Stefan Kisielewski once wrote about it clearly. The Polish People's Republic had one idea, and a historical policy was also practiced. [[Look in the mirror, jackass!]] Stefan Kisielewski named her, Mr. Marshal, well, it was about Piast Poland against the multi-national, multicultural, multi-religious former, magnificent Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You do the same thing: the nationalist version of history, planted with your views against a wonderful tradition...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u33	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u34	...the true and holy Republic. [[Scandal, come down!]] There will be no acceptance for this candidate. [[Raphael, it's time to go back to the roots.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u35	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with the words... [[And shut up right now.]] ...which came out of the pen by Mr.Jarosław Szark, placed in his article entitled: The last task of Jack Strong is published in our Journal of 8 and 9 February 2014. The full quote: 'Also many remember Warsaw Powązki in the times of the Polish People's Republic on the Day of All Saints. Candles beating over graves of soldiers of the Home Army, the Polish Army, over the Katyn Valley, and next to the darkness and emptiness of communal quarters. That's the way it is today. This painting returns every time I cross the cross over Colonel Richard Kuklinski's grave. Always ligaments of fresh white and red flowers, bouquets bound in national colors, many lit candles... A few meters away, stone lumps above the last resting place of Jack Kuronia, Bronisław Geremek. And only single, long-lost lanterns. Cemetery memory sometimes tells more than obsessively learned volumes. [[Voice from the room: True.]] She will not be screamed by the hysteria that Poles have recently funded by the media in the service of power. However, it is always possible for city guards to order the removal of flowers and candles or even the transfer of flowers. These words are spoken by the candidate for president of the IPN. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to be well understood. By choosing Dr. Jarosław Szark as President of the IPN today, we choose not only the student and former subordinate of Mr Ryszard Terletki, but also a man who has extensive popularization achievements, but does not carry out scientific research, a man who does not hide that in scientific work only uses the results of other people's research... [[That's not true.]] ...a man who does not therefore have the necessary achievements to carry out the recent amendments to the Act on IPN research tasks of the institute, a man who has no experience in directing scientific and research units, such as, according to the current Act on IPN, the Institute of Memory is to become. [[And you were born an MEP, weren't you? So you have experience.]] Finally, we choose a man who is highly ideological, clearly... [[Get Balcerowicz in there.]] ...cristicized and long-spoken political views, [[Applause]] not evading the importance of obvious and all known historical facts, and at the same time unworthy of the last President of the Republic of Poland in exile, but also ostentatiously referring to burials of prominent figures of Polish politics and anti-communist opposition. [[What kind of education do you have?]] Let's add that Dr. Sharek himself was an anti-communist opposition activist. That's the kind of student you've been looking forward to, Marshal Terlecki. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u37	Please. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The history of the newest Poland is extremely difficult and complicated. As a nation, we have been incredibly painfully experienced over the past decades. The Institute of National Remembrance is a pillar of our historical policy, it is the creator of our historical consciousness and an invaluable center of education spreading knowledge about the latest history, especially among the young generation. The person who will be at the head of the Institute of National Remembrance, as a very important and important institution in this context, which I have said, should be a person of extremely balanced character, a person who should understand the extraordinary sensitivity of many events, in his assessments, based primarily on this sensitivity. Unfortunately, High Izbo, attending the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, during which the interview with the candidate for president of the Institute of National Remembrance took place, it was possible to get the impression that Dr. Grey had no understanding of these arguments. This statement about the tragedy, the crime in Jedwabne, seems to be the best way to prove it. But the question of choice is, as we understand it, a definite thing, which is why I will allow myself, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, to appeal to the candidate, and - I think - soon the President of the IPN, to show more sensitivity, that not so categorical judgements are guided in his work, because history should unite us, ladies and gentlemen, rather than be an instrument for deepening further divisions not only here among the us, but mostly among Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u39	Please. Member Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Institute of National Remembrance is one of those few institutions that were created after 1989 and actually serve to reveal those pages of history that have so far been unknown. It is an institution very necessary to the Polish state for many reasons, due to the discovery of historical truth, truth based on objective knowledge, not subjective knowledge, but at the same time on the proper formation of subsequent generations of Poles, memory of national heroes, but also about these dark cards of history, which concern primarily the period of the Polish People's Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to Dr. Jarosław Szark's candidacy. As a member of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I had the opportunity to listen to the doctor's speech and I am very surprised by his statements, his position and his vision of the functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance, which he proposed as a candidate. But, ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to one more thing, your doctor's candidacy was already known before we established the College of National Remembrance Institute. It wasn't a surprise. And here is a great regret for the Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like the Institute of National Remembrance to be a stable institution of the Polish state, you would allow someone outside your group. Nine out of nine members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance come from your nomination. Our candidate or candidates are equally good, exhibited even by the Civic Platform Club - there is no representative of other political environments in the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. Ladies and gentlemen, you've scored 38%. Social support, and at the Institute of National Remembrance you have 100% in college and you have your president. [[Applause]] [[That's life.]] If the Member says that this is life, then I do not agree to this life, because it is life in a country subordinate to one party, etatism, centralism. This is the kind of Poland I do not agree to - to Poland politicized, because after you someone will come and do the same, i.e. the political Institute of National Remembrance, but maybe the other way. And this will not serve the Polish state. This will not serve the Polish state. This is a very bad practice. Therefore, our doubts about how you are trying to influence the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u41	There you go. Janusz Sanocki has the floor. Mr President, you have 50 seconds left of the time available at each session of the Sejm for each non-member Member. [[50 seconds?]] Not 50 minutes, 50 seconds. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u42	You see what I'm supposed to say? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[And it's not Friday, Janusz.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Sharek made an excellent impression on the justice committee during the talks. [[Yes, sir.]] On the other hand, the issue raised by the gentlemen from the Platform, from the Modern, by the Silk issue, was quite different from what Dr. Grey said. He did not deny the participation of the Polish population, but it is clear that Silke was under the jurisdiction of the German state at the time and the organizers were Germany. [[Yes, sir.]] But when it comes to Silke, I have a demand that this Silky case be completed, because the exhumation has been stopped, as we remember. I'm calling for the IPN to start an investigation, complete an exhumation, explain everything that was there. [[Applause]] Otherwise, we'll be barbecued forever on the basis of speeches and such insinuations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[There's been a trial.]] I was running out of time, and I just wanted to say something funny at the end. I'm sorry. [[It's really about telling jokes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u43	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a The Sejm shall appoint the President of the Institute of National Remembrance by a majority of votes. Before the vote, Members of the House presented themselves to ask questions. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] [[That's enough.]] It is remarkable that, at a time when there is a real chance that the Institute of National Remembrance after many years of craftsmanship, after many years of sweeping some cases under the rug, it has really become a tool of Polish historical policy... [[But what are you saying, young man?]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] ...it's a bit of a psychic thing to think that the Modern Platform is making such a mess in this room. It's just a psychic. [[Fifth column.]] As regards Silk, ladies and gentlemen, this has already been said - the exhumation has not been completed. The responsibility - yes, and these are true words - is borne by the Germans who forced them to do so by the Polish people of Silk. [[Get off the podium.]] And that's the historical truth. This is the truth which the Polish state should defend on the international stage. [[Don't wave your hand at us.]] But before this historical truth and Polish historical policy is implemented internationally, we must win the battle for history and the battle for memory. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Poland, because, as you can see, it is very bad, also in this room. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u45	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Winnicki, the Polish Jews in Jedwabne murdered Polish neighbours, these are historical facts. [[No! Don't lie to me.]] [[Voice from the room: Anti-Polish.]] I would like to address the question to Mr Jarosław Szark, quoting his statement: Do you really think that the executors of the crime in Jedwabne were Germans who used their own terror in the machine under compulsion of a group of Poles? [[It's obvious.]] [[Voice from the hall: In 1941, Silk was under German occupation.]] Mr. future head of the IPN, explain yourself. That's a really embarrassing statement. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That doesn't hold up the dignity of this position. [[Applause]] [[The shame is that you're standing there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u47	Thank you. At the moment, Mr President, in the appointment procedure, there is no way that the candidate would be able to reply to the nomination for President of the IPN. In the committee, he replied, where the committee assessed these answers accordingly. Please, Mr Paszyk, Polish People's Party Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An important element of historical policy is the commemoration of events and people. Recently, the Institute of National Remembrance has focused a great deal on the anniversaries of the Katyn murder, the anniversaries of the trial of sixteen or the Augustow manhunt. On the other hand, the years 2016 and 2017 are also major anniversaries of the May bombing and the fraudulent elections and post-war referendum, accompanied by repression and persecution of the then activists of the Polish People's Party. [[ZSL...]] [[Falsified elections were recent.]] I wanted to ask you, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] whether there will be a selective approach to dates, or whether the IPN will treat all events and dates from the history of Poland in an equal manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u49	Please. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u50	High Izbo! This is a resolution... [[Shame on you.]] ...of 30 June 2003 In 1999 the Council The High Chamber has decided that the Institute of National Remembrance will be established. The first investigation, one of the first investigations, and the first one carried out by the Branch Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals in Bialystok was an investigation into the murder of Jedwabne. These arrangements are unchangeable. These findings have been conducted for 3 years by the Institute of National Remembrance. The Prime Minister may not know this material. This is not Mr. Gross's book, these are the findings of Polish investigators. If the candidate for President of the IPN disputes these findings, if the candidate for President of the IPN disputes the achievements of the institution which was appointed by free Poland... [[What's free?]] ...if we want to take the lead at this institute today, a quarter of a billion zlotys... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: That's enough.]] ...in the hands of a highly ideological man, [[Joy in the Chamber]] The right-wing publicist who questions the findings is really serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u51	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u52	You as PiS...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u54	...you take full responsibility for this. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[Mr Szydło puts the documents before the Prime Minister Beata Szydło]] [[Garbage is given elsewhere.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u55	This is all your fellow Members. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote, ladies and gentlemen. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Jarosław Szark as President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 256 against - 166, 13 Members abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has appointed Mr Jarosław Szark as the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] Congratulations to the president of the election. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 to 10 a.m. 10 min 04]] I would like to ask you to take your seats so that we can begin the next part of the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. We are therefore beginning with a question which Mr Waldemar Andzel will ask on the progress of the restructuring of hard coal mining. That question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski will answer. Please, sir, ask for the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Stone coal is still a pillar of Polish energy, but for several years we have seen a decline in the extraction of this raw material. Since 2007, the production of hard coal has decreased by more than 15 million tons. Despite the decline in coal production, organisational changes, the transfer of several mines to SRK and the reduction of production in mines, we are still dealing with oversupply of coal on the market. The import of coal into Poland and the prepayment system for Polish coal have a huge impact on this phenomenon. There are large stocks of coal in various types of warehouses and landfills, and we see a drop in coal sales prices. In many mines, they do not even cover production costs. Such a bad situation of Polish mining was greatly contributed by the ruling eight-year coalition PO-PSL. Inappropriate action by the government at that time led to the debt of coal mining by the end of 2015 much more than PLN 14 billion. I therefore ask the Minister with the following questions. At what stage is the notification of the aid scheme for the mining industry? Has implementation of plans for the creation of a Polish coal holding company started? What are the results of the audit and the assumptions of the corrective plan of the Jastrzębska Coal Group? What positive effects of the establishment of the Polish Mining Group can be observed after a few weeks of its operation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u57	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the preparation of the Polish coal holding company, as this is the contractual and laborious name given to the currently prepared restructuring process of the Katowice Coal Holding, we are at the stage, the process of determining the legal and organisational structure is actually ongoing. I'll tell you why it's going on. Because the current board, following an analysis, concluded that the previously planned measures that are needed in the recovery process were much smaller, it was said that 300 million were needed. The current board, following a deeper analysis, concluded that measures that would allow the restructuring process to be carried out in real terms in Katowice Holding Węglowy, were measures of 700 million. This meant that our previous assumptions had to be reviewed. The new Management Board also submitted its business plan, which already covers these larger assumptions. Currently, the entities to be involved in the restructuring programme are Węglokoks SA, as well as Enea's energy company, which notified the access earlier last year. As a larger pool of measures will be needed to engage in this restructuring process, these two entities are taken seriously into account. We also do not exclude - we are still analyzing, even if we had another meeting yesterday - the involvement of the third party, but this will be decided within the next two to three weeks. The updated business plan will be presented next week and the whole process of discussions with the bank, the financial side, because here we also have a situation similar to the situation of the Polish Mining Group, where virtually all the assets, the mines are set up. We have liquidity problems, although the holding company has been paying all its wages so far. We also have shifted payments in private companies that operate on Katowice Coal Holding. I think it will be decided within two weeks, because next week we decide on a change in the organizational structure, whether it is a recapitalisation, or the creation of a new company, so-called. The PV is working. This is gonna happen next week. As for notification, I would like to inform the honourable parliamentarians that we are in the process of preparing an analysis of the functioning of the Polish Mining Group. We are currently in dialogue with the European Commission. The expected date of notification - September, October, maybe November, i.e. we hope that by the end of this year we should complete this notification process related to the Polish Mining Group. And in parallel, creation is imposed, which was to take place on 1 July in PGG, in the Polish Mining Group, so-called. Team mines. This is a big undertaking, which is why we are already after the first meetings with the social side, in order to analyze and correct on a regular basis what is happening in relation to the Polish Mining Group. We add to this an analysis of the state of progress of the investment programme in each mine, which are forecasts for individual complex mines and each mine separately, because this will affect the success of the project connected with the establishment of the Polish Mining Group. I would just like to add that in the Polish Mining Group the capital injection by holding shares by energy companies is based on a business process, so the investment contribution is estimated at a return of 1,1%. the measures involved. Another tranche, the last one, will enter the Polish Mining Group in February next year, because the whole process did not anticipate the involvement of the entire capital package, the entry of energy companies. This project will be carried out in the acquisition of shares, but it has been divided into stages so that we can properly involve funds at the various stages of restructuring of the Polish Mining Group. As far as the decline in mining is concerned, I must say that certain decisions of the Management Board of the Polish Mining Group are actually taken, that where coal is not sold or we cannot find the buyer, certain production capacities have been slowed down. It is composed, among others. to reduce the operating costs of individual mines. At the same time it's about causing, investment is going to make us mine this kind of coal, this sort of coal that has its buyer on the market. We requalify it, among other things. in the Polish Mining Group, but it is also related to Katowice Holding Węglowy. I am about to go to Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, because we also have planned it there. So we want to invest in these walls and in those mines that have their own market, they have their recipient, so that they don't multiply the extraction into coal, and they don't multiply the coal that's hard to sell. As for Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, we are actually almost what... On Monday, a large meeting took place at the headquarters of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, during which Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Member, chaired the audit group, representatives of the social side, experts, the Industrial Development Agency. The audit concerning Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa was presented and it has already been made public. On the same day, what is important, the Management Board of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa presented a business plan for the functioning of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa covering investments, including restructuring process, but also including talks with financial institutions, so that - as it was in the Polish Mining Group - it would conclude an agreement with financial institutions and lead to a restructuring process, also financial, so that the Jastrzęb Spółka could get, catch organisational and financial breath, because, as we know, this company was in a very difficult situation, probably the worst compared to all coal companies. Here's the plan, so by 2025... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two sentences, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u59	Two sentences. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: ...Jastrzębska company had 80% in its assortment Coking coal and only 20% energy, because with the same workload, the same costs of mining coke is much better when it comes to the purchase price. This will definitely improve the functioning of the Jastrzębski company in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Minister, please stay, or the Member will ask a question from the Parliamentary Court. And this will be Mrs Ewa Malik, the Law and Justice Club, and an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We still have such questions for you. The biggest emotions among those interested in repairing the situation in Polish mining raise information about the release of hundreds of millions of PLN for unnecessary consulting, legal, sponsorship and advertising services. Millions of contracts were concluded without a tendering procedure. It is said that currently in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa it still seems too much for purchases related to organization and logistics and that it is a policy of continuation. So we ask you to look at this specific management policy. We would also like to know if the responsible for this situation, as in the case of the heads of the JSW, when in 2012 and 2014 they were taken out of the company - only in these years - about PLN 170 million for advertising, sponsorship [[♪ The bell ♪]] and all kinds of unnecessary shopping... Is he gonna press charges with these bosses? Of course, the unionists and the miners who are looking at this situation expect it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u61	Stop asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u62	Will all persons guilty of this situation be prosecuted on the basis of the results of the audit?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u63	Member, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u64	Yes, sir. It is said that some of the people responsible for this situation continue to perform key functions in the company.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u65	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u66	And a question about the situation in the Krupinski mine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u67	Member, this is the end. You're asking a question for almost two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u69	I didn't hear the end. [[Krupinski's still here.]] As far as the audit is concerned, he actually confirmed to us the information we collected at the Ministry. We - thank the auditors - had the opportunity to make the results of this audit public. I would like to say that, in fact, the funds spent on consulting, consulting, legal services, sponsorship are an alarming amount, because it amounts, as I recall, to more than 370 million or 380 million. The entire audit was forwarded to the Supervisory Board. The supervisory board, now the owner of the audit, will apply appropriate procedures, I think, also to ensure that the relevant institutions take an interest in these results. I would like to say that Minister Tchórzewski, at the request of a social party in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, has sent a request to the Minister of Justice, Minister Ziobra, for the Ministry to deal with reports to the prosecutor's office which took place at the beginning of this year, so the proceedings concerning some people are already ongoing. I want to confirm that this is also the answer to the suggestion of people on the social side. However, when it comes to e.g. a logistics centre or a logistics facility, I would like to say that I share here the suggestions that came up in the question of the Member. I am of the same opinion: organizational changes must take place not only in the logistics plant, but in the logistics plant certainly because, looking at history, we can see that investment outlays in individual mines outside the Jastrzębska company were 20%, 30%, 15% lower, and somehow in this situation in the Hawk company it turned out that the same comparable works, actually the same machines were much more expensive. Hence the question of the appropriateness of the functioning of this structure. As far as I know, I already have this knowledge, and this week's materials have come down, we have a proposal for organizational change, among others. in the logistics plant, but also changes in the functioning of the Jastrzębska company. I would also like to say that in every mining company, we ask the board to present us with proposals for a new organisational structure that is more efficient, which takes into account the restructuring process, but also to eliminate what has happened so far, the fact that so-called companies have been commissioned. their own, i.e. companies with the capital of the Coal Company, about the capital of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, and these companies - which should do this cheaper - recommended it in outsourcing to external companies. Well, in fact, there's nothing in economic logic. Hence these procedures have already been launched and the board has been obliged to do so. On the other hand, on the matter of the Krupiński mine, we are after two very good meetings with representatives of the social side and with the director of the Krupiński mine, because after a detailed analysis of individual mines of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, which we conducted in the first months, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It turns out that the Krupiński mine has a problem with achieving a positive result in its activities. I'm just gonna finish up, Marshal, if you don't mind, 'cause this is a pretty important issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u70	I'm extending your response time by one minute. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Continuing the issue of the Krupiński mine: it is very important that in each mining group, what we have set up in business plans and what is really a commitment of the Polish government, as far as the European Commission is concerned, each mine in a perspective of 2, 3 years and even 4 years could achieve a positive result in its business. At a time when we have a problem with investment effort in order to achieve this result, the question arises as to what is the future of a mining plant or whether it has already run out or whether it is really necessary to invest. But I'm sure it's happening when it comes to the government. At the moment when we even pass it on, as is the case at Anna Mining Works in PGG, even when we pass on part of the Room mine, all the employees - I want it to sound very good - are the development when it comes to moving to other mines, and those who want to use the so-called. cover, i.e. leave checks, in the SRK such measures are guaranteed. So here we don't have an employee problem, we don't have a employee problem. It is only a question of determining which assets in individual companies, and in this case in the Krupiński mine, should have their future, because I will add that Krupiński has a concession until 2021, so we still have to measure how this mine is going to function until 2021. All I'm gonna say is this year's target is minus 200 million at the end of the year. This is a big challenge, which is why we are in dialogue with the social side to decide what we will do next with this mine in the context of the entire restructuring process of Jastrzębska Węglowa. That's it, I think, for such a quick handover. Thank you very much for the question. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mr Artur Dunin, a member of the Civic Platform club, and it will address the question of how to fund the World Youth Days. This is a question addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, and will be answered by the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Kempa. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u71	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! World Youth Days are coming up, and they will last from July 26 to July 31. As we all know, they will take place on the territory of the Republic of Poland, but the main organisers of the World Youth Days are the Papal Council. Secular, Cracow archdiocese and local organizational committee. So I have a question for you. Due to the fact that this takes place in the territory of the Republic of Poland, the previous government and this government, which boasts, will support this initiative, because it is worth doing and it is worth presenting the country in a good light. But is it true that this Polish country will largely finance the course of World Youth Days despite the fact that it does not belong to its responsibilities and to the organizers? Second question. Is it true that the ministers at the Ministry of the Treasury ordered on 17 June, asked, might it be nicer to say, representatives of subordinate companies to transfer funds from their budget for funding the World Youth Days? Is it true that other meetings took place with representatives of companies, where representatives of these companies of the Treasury and the Treasury, and the Minister of Energy, and supposedly also the Minister of Agriculture, were asked to finance the World Youth Days from their budgets? Is it true, Minister, that there will be a Polish pavilion, the cost of which will be approx., circa 4 million PLN, and it will be the money coming from the state budget, from companies subordinate to various ministers? Answer me one more question, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe in the next part, not to prolong.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u72	Maybe with the extra question, then there'll be time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u73	Yes, sir, well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u74	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! In response to the question by Mr Artur Dunin and Mr Zbigniew Konwiński about the first question about the degree of funding by the state of the Polish organizations of World Youth Days, I will say that it is not, as Members believe, a matter of our responsibilities, because it is in the hands of the main organisers, that the Polish state is not the organiser of the World Youth Days, it does not finance the course of this event. On the other hand, the state budget for 2016 planned measures to ensure security and public order and, of course, medical security for the participants of the above mentioned. It's a celebration. This is the consequence of the state's implementation of fundamental obligations towards citizens - protection of life and health. I don't think these, sir, have a price. I can assure you that this funding is under the strict supervision of the Minister of Finance, and under strict supervision of me as head of the government's task force. preparation of World Youth Days. As for your second, third question regarding meetings, I will say briefly, companies with the Ministry of the Treasury, in June at the request of the Polish Information and Foreign Investment Agency SA held an organizational meeting with representatives of the companies concerned. The presence of these companies was the result of the search for promotion opportunities by these companies during a unique international event, which has a significant potential to focus the attention of Polish and foreign media. The initiative of this Polish agency, which is obvious, is not part of the World Youth Days or their financing, but merely the use by the state and the Treasury company of the unique character of the event with a large global scope to promote Poland and Polish brands. In the previous term, Mr President, here I will remind you, as part of the interministerial team for preparing his visit to Poland, chaired by the former head of the firm, my predecessor, Mr Jacek Cichocki, a working group was set up on media service, promotion of events, artistic values, Polish companies, products led by the Deputy Minister of the Treasury. The meetings of the members of this group were devoted inter alia. developing the principles of possible cooperation between companies of the Treasury, agencies subordinate to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and food producers with the organizer of the World Youth Days. The implementation of the project in the field of marketing, sponsorship or corporate social responsibility is the result of the work of the above mentioned. groups that were already active in the previous term of office. Is it true that the creation of the Polish pavilion is to consume about PLN 4 million? Of course it is because the leading role in the field of promotional activities of Poland during the global days was entrusted to the Polish Information and Foreign Investment Agency, which, due to its mission of creating a positive image of Poland in the world and promoting especially Polish products and services seems to be the most appropriate entity in this area. The Polish pavilion was designed so that this promotion would not be distracted, because everyone had some very cool idea, which is better, but we thought that focusing it around one idea, so that young people from all over the world could have like a lens focused on various kinds of offer that we have as Poles... In our view, this promotion was as modern, innovative and attractive as possible, and in this case it is intended to focus on the promotional efforts previously planned by individual departments in this one place. It was worked out simply by the team you called, and we continued. As far as information on the costs of implementing the Polish pavilion is concerned, this is what the Polish agency of information will have after clearing and completing the entire project. It should also be noted that this initiative falls within the scope of the statutory duties of the agency under the Ministry of Development, it is § The 3rd statute of this agency, so that I would like to reassure you here. You are also asking for an indication and specification of the amounts of the WYD's co-financing granted... [[I haven't asked yet, but I will.]] ...through all companies of the Treasury, all agricultural agencies subordinate to the Ministry. Government administration units are not the organizer of the WYDM, therefore the information on the possible involvement of companies of the State Treasury in this project belongs to these companies. Companies conclude business contracts, including marketing, sponsorship and other contracts. Information about this activity is published in the annual reports, so there are other questions that need to be asked here, Mr President. At this point, Your Marshal, I will allow myself to say one more thing for, I think, the calming of the Member. I also thank you for these questions, because today you can clearly and clearly say that we invite you to the World Youth Day. It is an effort very, very many people who contributed to the preparation, especially on the part of the organizer. I am not entitled to say what possible costs it incurs, only from the information that we have in the framework of various kinds of cooperation, I know that these are certainly measures on the part of the organizer, whose burden it bears, I am here facing. On the State side, however, there is a question of security, which, as I said, has no price. We are all prepared, we invite young people from all over the world. For all we know, they're already in the dioceses and everything goes in a way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Very, very beautiful and correct. So that I may ask for an additional question, Mr. I'm ready.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u76	At this point, an additional question, please. And I ask the Minister to remain on the stand and answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u77	As the Minister noted, at first I said that yes, the state budget, planned for previous governments, is doing this, and for this very much thank you, because, as the Minister said, the safety of our citizens, but also of all visitors, is the most important. I asked about the budget money, and I would like to know, even though you said, Minister, that I could look for it. No, I ask you to do so, because you are the Minister responsible at the Prime Minister's office to gather me this information, which is the Treasury companies, because unfortunately there are various news that it is precisely the companies of the Treasury that will finance the World Youth Days in a considerable way, at the request of the ministers, upon request and request, I will say gently: the request of the ministers, because the organisers are unable to cope with this project. Minister, if you don't mind, I have a moment left to finish, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would ask for written answers to all these questions, with information on how much money came out of companies on the World Youth Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u78	Thank you, may I?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u79	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u80	Mr President, I would like to say to you that I am bound by the law and can answer you on the basis and within the limits of the law in this regard. Once again, there is also the Commercial Companies Code and all the other elements that are related to it, so I do not intend to violate the law in this regard. Of course, if you wish to respond in writing, it will also be within the limits of the law and on the basis of the law, on the basis of the information that I may or may provide. To the rest, please contact other entities and they are competent to provide this information. On the other hand, I want to make one thing clear and clear: please do not give such a message that someone is not dealing with something, and especially the organizer. The organizer himself, I think, is very good at advising and cooperating with you, the State with the organizer. It has nothing to do with what is often said, that there may be, I don't know, a demonstration of strength, because it isn't and it won't. I think that preparation of Częstochowa, Błoni and Brzeczy also required great cooperation with the organizer, but also with local governments. I want from this place very much... Regardless of the views we present, it did not matter much, this cooperation was simply model. At first, of course, there was an attempt to show such a political attitude, but very quickly everyone realized that it didn't lead to anything good, because the main responsibility of everyone It's us that these kids who come here, first of all, feel good, fantastic, get to know our country, get to know its culture. And I think that even if there is a gift of heart - it is possible, yes - from companies of the Treasury or other entities, it is probably obvious, Mr President. I thought that the times of the Palikot had passed in this Seym and such questions would remain, yes, a concern, a question, but nevertheless, I think you can be completely calm here, and having your colleagues in different places, you can be absolutely calm. And if there really is one to your interest, please contact the relevant actors. On the other hand, I cordially invite you to the World Youth Day. You're a young man, I'm sure you'll have a great spiritual and intellectual experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u81	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u82	Your marshal, one word. I wanted to thank you very much for your invitation and for this young man. I don't think I'm young anymore, but I'm happy to accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u83	Mr President, we are all young in spirit, and that is the most important thing, except for metrics.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u84	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u85	That's the end of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u86	In that case, Minister, if this is how you apply the law, please print out the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u87	That remark was no longer relevant to this question. We move on to the next question to be asked by members of the Kukiz club15: Mr Andrzej Maciejewski - the first question and the additional question - Mr Tomasz Romankowski. These questions will be about the arguments for the Polish ambassador in Ukraine to be Mr Jan Hell, who justifies and glorifys UPA representatives as a national freedom organization. This is a question addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will answer Minister Marek Ziółkowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Our question is a question arising from concern for Poland, about Polish foreign policy. We know that the verification procedure or the entire procedure for the appointment of the ambassador is already underway, we know that Mr Hell is already after the hearing in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but our question is still valid enough to find out what arguments are in favour of Jan Hell as a Polish ambassador in Ukraine. Analyzing his speeches, undoubtedly knowledge - because we cannot question his knowledge and here nobody I do not question it - I do not see the difference between his views and the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister, are you sure we're sending a Polish ambassador? And does the Ministry believe and is certain of the loyalty of Ambassador John Hell? This question I would like to support one more point. Well, recently I had the opportunity to meet with the honourable community of professors, historians and analysts dealing with the East, they were not nationalists, and, Minister, they asked me as a Member one question whether we really do not have a diplomat in Poland, a young, educated official who will go to watch over our interests, not Ukrainian interests. I will be grateful for the very substantive answer, because we still have time, the change is to take place somewhere in the turn of September and October, the more that the bar suspended by the Lithuanian Ambassador is very high and we positively appreciate the work of the current ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u89	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u90	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! His 20 years of experience in building Polish-Ukrainian relations, first as the director of the Foundation's Mark and the Institute of Bridges to the East, then as the Executive Director of the PAUCI Fund, good knowledge of the political, cultural and non-governmental environments of Ukraine, knowledge of the history and culture of Ukraine and the Polish-Ukrainian heritage, contacts in intergovernmental and diplomatic organisations operating in Ukraine, contacts with journalists and Ukrainian media, knowledge of processes related to the Eastern Partnership project and the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union resulting from the participation of Mr Hell in the Steering Committee of the Eastern Partnership Civil Society Forum and their projects, good knowledge of the whole Eastern Partnership region and the Black Sea basin - Mr Hell also dealt with during a certain period of time with the Balkans - long-standing involvement in the process of approximation and cooperation between Poland and Ukraine, good contacts with the Ukrainian influential diaspora in the USA, Canada and Australia, knowledge of the international expert community dealing with the Eastern theme. He is also the author of a series of analyses, publications on Eastern Europe. We have presented the candidacy of Mr Hell of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Sejm, as well as the Senate. He has received a positive opinion, for which we are very grateful, and therefore we see no reason to hold back the process of preparing the ambassador for his appointment for this position and leaving for Ukraine this year. If possible, note on the approximation of positions between the Foreign Office of Ukraine and Poland. This is a matter of Polish foreign policy strategy, and actually we will be happy to give a more comprehensive explanation if necessary, but on many issues due to the neighbouring and multi-layered strategic partnership with Ukraine, we often want our positions, Ukraine and Poland to be close - just on many issues, such as regional and security issues. At the last NATO summit, we supported Ukraine on an even closer relationship with the North Atlantic Alliance than ever before. It is also known that, together with other countries of the European Union and NATO, we are actively opposed to Russian aggression in Ukraine. So that there are many issues in the field of regional and European policy, in which Poland and Ukraine positions are the same or close. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u91	Thank you very much. And the second question, as I said earlier, Mr Tomasz Romankowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u92	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, I would like to start by referring to the interpellation which I addressed to Minister Waszczykowski; I received a reply from Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Secretary of State. Thank you for this answer, with two questions missing the answers, i.e. I just didn't get an answer to those questions. I'd like to repeat them right now. Have any organizations been consulted on the candidate of Jan Hell for the post of ambassador of the Republic of Poland in Kiev? If yes, please state the names of these institutions and specify the meaning of these proposals, these opinions. The next issue concerns, above all, the public statements of the candidate, the editor of Jan Hell, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which he gave, among others, for the Polish Journal. He said: At that time there were episodes of fratricidal struggle between Ukrainians and Poles. There's been a Volyn crime, but it's only part of the story of UPA, which also has other cards. Another quote from the statement: In the Second Republic of the Republic of Ukraine, the Ukrainians were third or fourth-class citizens. Ukrainian culture was destroyed, and they were heavily polishized. Can a person who destroys the good name of Poland be a good ambassador?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u93	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u94	One last question, very short. Can the opponent of the film Volhynia be a Polish ambassador in Kiev? Please respond in detail, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u95	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u96	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, selecting candidates for ambassadors, consults many institutions. As for this candidacy, of course, we have initially asked both the President and the Prime Minister, as well as other institutions in the scientific world. [[What?]] It's not a secret, but let me finish my sentence. In turn, it is neither our task nor we have any reason to select and select those environments that we have asked about Mr.John Hell in the form of this answer today. I will suggest that of course these are often not written reviews, but conversations. We have a review, as I mentioned, of the excellent achievements of the organization of PAUCI or the Sign Foundation. But the basics for us are opinions. It is the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Seym, the Senate, the preliminary consent of the Prime Minister and the President. Let me comment on one more point about media contact or possible evaluation of films. We can't say anything about the movie "Volyn" yet, much less from this bleacher, even more as a minister. The film is not yet a product that officially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can comment on. The movie's not here yet. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Excuse me, may I?]] The next question will be asked by Members Mirosław Suchoń and... [[There's no answer.]] ... Krzysztof Truskolaski from the Modern Club. This is a question about the situation of Polish road transport companies in France due to the entry into force from 1 July 2016. the Macron Act and the measures taken by the Government to minimise the negative effects of the above mentioned law. regulations for Polish companies, as well as information on whether the Polish carrier was punished on the basis of them. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit, will answer. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u98	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is clear that transport is an important part of our economy, responsible for more than 6% of our GDP. This industry is constantly developing, an example of how market leadership can be achieved at European level, starting from practically zero. Unfortunately, this is also increasingly seen by our foreign partners and they are trying to apply protectionist policies. Of course, it is our country's duty to support these companies in this difficult situation and this is what we expect from the government, precisely the actions that will implement this demand. We therefore ask you to answer the following questions. First of all, how do you assess the risk that the rules introduced by France will eliminate Polish companies from the transport market there, especially in view of attempts to tighten up the Services Directive? Secondly, what measures have been taken by the government to minimise the negative effects of the above mentioned. regulations for Polish companies? Thirdly, do you have any knowledge of possible cases of polish carriers being punished in connection with non-compliance with the rules protecting the French market? And, fourthly, do you have any knowledge of whether representatives of transport companies have applied to our diplomatic representatives for support? What kind of requests were they, and did the facilities provide this support? And the other thing, Minister, is a yellow card. Yesterday, it turned out that the European Commission would reject not only our yellow card but also other countries on the new directive tightening the rules on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. This, of course, means problems for many industries, including. for the transport industry. This could mean losing the big market to the industry that produces, I remind you, over 6% of our GDP. Therefore, I wanted to ask what administrative and government actions would be in relation to the rejection of the yellow card. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you have action scenarios? How does the government intend to counter the deterioration of Polish companies and workers, including in particular carriers? Finally: Is the government taking action on the German rules so that the MiLoG rules, which have already been in operation for over 1.5 years, can also be blocked in some way? And last question: Is the government planning to speak to the Court of Justice about these protectionist rules? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u99	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Polish transport in Europe is leading and this statement is extremely binding for us, for the Polish government. Indeed, two governments, the French Government and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany have introduced their internal conditions, their internal regulations, which unfortunately violate the principles of the common market, are violating the fundamental principles of the functioning of the European Union. Of course, we are talking about a law called MiLoG in Germany and a law called Loi Macron in France. Poland strongly opposes these rules and I am about to talk about the actions that the government has taken and will continue to take in this matter. I will start by saying that within the Visegrad Group as Poland, we came up with an initiative that we already took in February this year, so that the Visegrad Group would come to the European Commission with our opposition to these two regulations. This letter, which was sent to Commissioner Bulc and thus to the European Commission as a whole, has been successful in bringing together 11 countries. We started with V4, from 4 countries, and eventually 11 countries signed this speech. Then at the ministerial summit at the International Transport Forum in Leipzig... It is an organisation that goes beyond Europe, outside the European Union. It also includes the greatest powers in the world: the United States, Russia, Canada and China. This took place on 18 May in Leipzig. We have made a clear statement on these protectionist actions of Germany and France and called for talks, we called for them to abandon these practices. 7 June in the framework of the Council for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister for Transport, Telecommunications and Energy in Luxembourg, spoke about the Macron Act, expressing his opposition to the intention to enter into force of these regulations. This has been met with a great deal of interest from many Member States, because these laws, these regulations, of course, do not apply only to Polish transport, but in general apply to all those who operate in the transport sector in the Federal Republic of Germany or the French Republic. The rules in France are particularly severe. They concern, for example, a minimum wage of EUR 9.67 per hour. We would like to make so much money, certainly no one would be offended, few people would be offended in Poland for such an hourly rate. However, today, unfortunately, we cannot afford to be a country so that such a rate is universally applicable. The following restrictions concern the obligation to issue a certificate of posting, to appoint an entrepreneur's representative in France or to keep documents relating to the payment of remuneration for work in France and to present them at the request of the French control services and what is extremely important in French. All these documents are to be translated into French. We have talked to our transport companies on this subject many times. We cooperate with them every step of the way and all the actions we take, we do together. Further on the actions that have been taken and continue to be undertaken by the Government of Law and Justice. On 9 June, a conference took place in Brussels in the Permanent Representation of France to the EU, during which France finally presented the detailed rules that had become applicable 20 days before the entry into force of this law. We have once again opposed the French in this respect, our delegation has made it clear that we are opposing this and we are not going to give in to the efforts to withdraw these regulations. Similarly, on 21 June and 22 June, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk raised this issue during the Polish-German intergovernmental meeting. This was also raised by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in a discussion with Chancellor Angela Merkel during the consultation on 22 June. Ladies and gentlemen! This issue is already within the European Union and we have several signals and some clear documents that Commissioner Violeta Bulc, who is responsible for transport, is also against these solutions. We expect the Union to take concrete, appropriate action by the European Commission. On the other hand, I would like to say, because a few questions concerned the consequences and ailments already at the moment, that until now the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction has not received information about the imposition of a penalty on the Polish carrier in connection with the application of the provisions of the Macron Act in France. Let us hope that, indeed, such a communication will be able to pass on to the High House and the environment concerned for a long time. Nevertheless, we are taking all steps to regulate this matter. Unfortunately, we're dealing with [[♪ The bell ♪]] with such a situation that the law, especially in France, but also in Germany, has become part of internal policy. In Germany, the MiLoG Act was...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u101	Minister, why don't we finish this sequence when the Member asks an additional question... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Good. ...and then you'll be able to answer the previous and subsequent questions. I'll probably extend the time if I don't. Stay on the stand, or the Member will ask a question from the parliamentary jury. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u102	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is information throughout Europe that our citizens and businesses use different forms of dumping. According to the adherents of this theory, we are a competitive country because we are lowering costs. Therefore, the recent protectionist measures, as the Minister said, Germany or France, which want to protect their market at all costs. No one takes into account the degree of economic development affecting differences in different economic categories. No one takes into account the diligence of our citizens, the innovation of our companies, flexibility in relation to the expectations of our contractors and reliability in the provision of services. This causes us to lose our positive image as a country. This positive image also loses our entrepreneurs, including our transport companies. Poland as a country does not participate in this discussion, so there is no one to present our position and the advantages of our entrepreneurs. Hence our question: Does the government plan to separate some part of our country from the promotion funds and allocate it to promote [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish entrepreneurship and Polish entrepreneurs? This is, of course, a question of economic diplomacy, but this kind of promotion of our companies would certainly benefit entrepreneurs, citizens of our country, which is why it is worth doing so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u103	And, Minister, if you'd be kind about that yellow card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u104	I ask you, Minister, to answer the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, As far as this part of the question is concerned about the actions that the government is taking, I think I have already answered in the first part of the speech. These are just the actions that I mentioned, the most official ones, that is, the ones that are supported by documents, supported by specific dates, places of meetings, that is, this diplomacy completely official. But in addition to this, of course, in every possible situation and in different bodies we talk about it, we talk about it. I know that there are a lot of discussions in the European Parliament, many Members, and it must be said that, regardless of political divisions, Poland is presenting a clear position here, and this is very good because it favours our position. But also what is most important in all this, so that it is not just a Polish problem. We're trying to involve other countries, as I said. The Visegrad Group, including all those countries that are interested, which are primarily affected by these laws. I think that this must have a positive effect on us, because we see that the ailments are not felt by our entrepreneurs so far, and well. These rights apply, but we do not hear about penalties, we do not hear about situations that might be unfavorable for our transport. But such a potential possibility unfortunately still exists. As for the promotion, I'll say yes. I'm sure that's a good idea - the actions that the development department is preparing and Prime Minister Morawiecki is preparing. I'm sure it's a good idea to bring this up too. We explain on every occasion that Poland does not apply social dumping, that in Poland there is a growing minimum wage, that all that is, that this increase is much greater than in other countries of the European Union, gives hope that in a few, several decades or 12 years this level of earnings, income will get close enough that there will be no such arguments. So all of this, apart from political action, these images, of course, is also being taken. But as for the yellow card, this is actually a serious problem, and here I totally agree. Unfortunately, this again applies to the poorer part. Europe and here too must act similarly, together we must mobilise the views of other countries, and I think there will be no problem with that either. On the other hand, the point is that we are able to overcome these internal conditions of these major countries. As far as MiLoG is concerned, this was included in the coalition agreement between the SPD and Chadecja. This is a coalition agreement and especially the SPD side requires very much, as if it does not want to give up in any way here. Similarly, in France, where elections are approaching. There was a recent statement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister for the French economy, who spoke very hard about this. Unfortunately, this is a real internal policy, in which unfortunately Poland and other countries...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u106	Minister, do you need an extension of your time? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Thank you. I'm almost done. There you go. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: I think I answered the questions. These are real situations that we simply have to deal with just like other European countries. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. You will be asking them to the Polish People's Party club Jan Łopata... [[I'm here.]] ...on the draft Water Law Act, which will hit Polish farmers. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment and will be answered by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mr Mariusz Gajda. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question. I was just looking at the bench and I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u107	There's no microphone. I followed the mike.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u108	Here, somewhere else. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The amendment to the Water Law law raises a very high public interest and there is nothing to be surprised about, after all, water and its costs, the price are direct elements affecting the cost of living, the cost of running households, the economy as a whole as such at last. From the media information we know that the law is already after adoption, after discussion in the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, and maybe this question would not have been asked, if it were not for the media, because in the Polish newspaper, I emphasize, in the Polish newspaper, which is difficult to describe by opposition newspaper, an article under a significant title "Water law will touch farmers." This article states that the changes proposed by the Minister for the Environment will hit farmers who irrigate their crops with water from deep wells. They will have to pay for each cubic meter of water taken. A fee will be introduced for the use of own deep-water wells, so the costs of a several hectare farm will increase by an additional few thousand zlotys. The proposed solutions will also impact the Polish industry, which uses large amounts of water and hydroenergy. The project also raises the concerns of environmentalists who point to the negative consequences of the entry into force of the Act. The increase in water charges will result in a general increase in prices of goods and services, for which Poles will pay, of course. In turn, the proposal to create a new Polish Water Company entails huge financial costs, which will be covered by taxpayers' pockets. And the questions that I have formulated on the basis of this article and the concerns raised. Why do you want to tax Polish farmers with water tax? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why will Polish farmers not be able to use their own home wells without obstacles? And why are you using the implementation of European Union law for additional taxation of Poles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u110	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, It's a shame you're based on press coverage, while the projects are published on the RCL website. Maybe not the latest versions, but they're published. Firstly, I would like to say that the obligation to introduce the principle of the reimbursement of the costs of water services imposes a framework water directive on us. This is one of the ex-ante conditions for the use of EU funds of EUR 3.5 billion in this perspective. Secondly, Poland already received a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in June. on this issue - infringement of the Water Framework Directive in the field of, inter alia, the reimbursement of the costs of water services. In short, the reimbursement of the costs of water services should be based on the fact that revenue and expenditure on water management should be balanced. It was also noted that among others. the agricultural sector is exempted from the water levy at the moment. Of course, we have carried out detailed economic analyses, and this is the basis of the Water Framework Directive, which shows that in the first version the fees were quite high, but given the profitability of the entire agricultural sector, these charges have been greatly reduced. And so: there will be no charge for surface water, i.e. for water in ditches, while for underground water there will be fees, but in case the water intake is higher than the so-called. normal use of water. It is a pre-war tradition and we have maintained it. The average use of water means an average of 5,000. And water a day from its own well, which is up to 5,000. And on average a day a year, because of course no one will count on it to be 10,000 in the summer. I, and in winter - e.g. 200 l or 300 l. The 5,000. I on average during the year is completely exempt from water charges. According to our calculations, charges can be covered by about 60,000. high-quality farms, i.e. about 8% agricultural holdings at national level. I say, maybe, because it only applies to those who will draw water from underground sources that will have a water law permit. The rate will be 15 gr per 1 m3, i.e. 1000 l. According to GUS data, this amount of water is currently being collected in Poland for these purposes, approx. 0,4 million m3, and at this rate of 15 gr these charges will amount to a total of 60 thousand. PLN on a country-wide scale for all farms, so that it is a very small amount and at the same time we have to regulate these amounts. Perhaps there are illegal water collections at the moment. Of course, these illegal water abstractions will also have to be covered. If someone illegally collects more than 5 m3 /s, not only will this rate be applied, but also the penalty will be charged, because this case must finally be settled. There are areas in Poland where, as a result of illegal water intake or semi-legal water intake for irrigation of underground farms with intensive production, people are beginning to lack drinking water in wells and we need to regulate this issue. This is what these financial instruments are meant to do. The Member asks: Why do you want to introduce another tax for Poles? It's not a tax, it's an environmental charge. Water is a gift in Poland really very, very poor. Poland can even be compared to Egypt when it comes to water resources, this is the indicator per capita statistically. Perhaps in Warsaw we have water - today we have water - but there are very poor areas in Poland. I'm going to give you an example from that year on Endiecpol, where people didn't have water in the wells. So it's just an environmental charge so that you can use this environmental charge, among other things. prevent the effects of floods, droughts, monitor water so that it is accessible to every citizen, also for production purposes and, of course, for agricultural purposes, but all this must be within a certain framework, because water is not an unlimited resource. While fuel or electricity can be imported, unfortunately we cannot import water from other countries, we must have a very rational water management. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u112	Mr President, do you want to ask an additional question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u113	Yes, if you don't mind. Minister, there's no point in accusing me of using media information. I've given the source, I've even quoted it twice. It's hard to refer to this newspaper as a favorable government. So I'm just concerned about this article, the content of this article... But since you are questioning this provision, let's say this information, how will you refer to the fact that the Chamber of Commerce of Polish Waterworks claims that after the entry into force of the new Water Law, prices for residents may increase by up to 25% from next year onwards. - specific institution, Chamber of Commerce of Polish Waterworks - and you assure that the price of water can only increase by a zloty per month? That's the government's information, and I have some specific information in front of me. So where's the truth? Whether the House is right or the State is saying that this will be a small increase [[♪ The bell ♪]] prices, of course in municipal holdings?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u114	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u115	Thank you very much. The fact that the price of water is going to go up a little bit is obvious. If so far these fees were almost no or were at a level of 10 gr for 1 000. I, and we predict for cities, for waterworks of 40 gr on average, it will increase a bit. For 1 m3 approx. 40 gr. But here we have to consider yet... Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this is why I am talking about press facts, because journalists, regardless of options, receive messages from various sources, business or interest groups, and according to calculations, how we started to collect this information, the writings that came to us, it turns out that as a result we will have income from all these increases of about PLN 100 billion per year, which is completely sucked out of the finger, you can say. Everyone's counting it in the wrong way. On the other hand, we know this development of Polish waterworks, Polish waterworks, and I wanted to tell you that this is some kind of scaring, on the other hand it may be a pretext - and this we fear will be a pretext - for significant increases in water prices, about this gold. And that's why we want to introduce an office to regulate the price of water. At the moment, water prices in some cities are in our opinion overpriced. They are constructed in such a way that the local government approves the tariff on the basis of justified costs, and often these costs are justified, for example. Luxurious cars for corporate executives, and these things happen. In large cities, water and sewage companies do not work non-profits, they have very high profits, from tens to even several hundred million zlotys per year. Of course, we need to... In order to stop an unjustified increase in costs, we are going to introduce, under the next law, an office for regulating water supply, a collective water supply - a regulatory authority, that is to say, checking whether the price of water is actually determined on the basis of justified costs, or perhaps costs often unjustified, generating a high increase in these costs for the citizen. As has been said here, all these charges globally, i.e. taking into account the increase in energy and water, should not exceed on average on a national scale, after this reduction, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A month's worth of cash per person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice Club. The question is about the forms of support that farmers from the municipalities in Lublin region can count on, whose crops have completely destroyed the hurricane, and is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and will be answered by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Jacek Bogucki. I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u117	Minister! Between 17 and 20 June, eight municipalities in the Lublin Voivodeship, such as Kraśnik, Trzydnik, Szastarka, Annopol, Wilkołaz, Urządów, Zakrzówek, were affected by a cataclysm in the form of hurricane, rain and, above all, hail. This caused huge losses in agriculture. The preliminary estimates of the voivodeship services indicate that 630 farms have been affected and the corresponding area of crops is almost 3 000. ha crops that have been subject to losses, often total, because of this number of 630 farms half - and half of the area, i.e. about 1500 ha - have suffered losses exceeding 70% the values of these crops. All crops, including long-term crops, have suffered, not only cereals, but also schools, which are a long-term investment, as well as fruit plantations. Of course, despair, a sense of danger in terms of survival and family, and farms, accompany these inhabitants. I would therefore like to ask what forms of aid from the Ministry of Agriculture our Lublin farmers, so severely injured, can count on. Because, yes, your voivodship has provided social assistance for households, and is also planned by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, to which two applications have been received, assistance for two farms [[♪ The bell ♪]] in larger amounts, but still the problem is not clearly solved. I would therefore like to ask how the Ministry of Agriculture will help our Lublin farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u118	I ask you, Minister, to answer the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Responding to the question concerning not only farmers from Lublin, because unfortunately nature does not spoil us and indeed different events, from winter frosts, through drought, and now cataclysms that haunt different regions of Poland, we also have quite a lot this year: it is a particular concern of the government to prepare and introduce solutions that can help these farmers. This is particularly true of the situations that you have been talking about, because such disasters, even though they occur locally, cause huge losses in specific individual farms or groups of farms in sometimes relatively small areas, and for people living there are particularly severe, and they particularly need help. That's why we're at the stage of balancing these damages. The aid you mentioned, one-off, ad hoc, in the field of social assistance, is the aid that is currently being provided. may, however, only the balancing of damage at national level will allow us, if possible, to mobilise aid which concerns holdings where the damage is at least 70% the area of cultivation. Such aid may be granted at a rate fixed at 1 ha and may not exceed 15 000. the euro per holding. Unfortunately, the aid is reduced if the holding has not been insured at least 50% the area of cultivation. This is unfortunately due to EU law and we must apply it in this regard. If the income of the entire holding has decreased by more than 30%, the aid shall be granted without other restrictions on the basis of a notification to the European Commission, if this does not exceed 30% of the income of the holding - then under de minimis aid, i.e. this 15 thousandth limit, for 3 years, of course for those who have not used that limit. Given the situation this year, we have worked to amend the rules so that the 70% it did not concern the whole holding, but the specific crop, because it happens that the holding carries out various types of crops and is destroyed one, essential for that holding, 70% but some crops are more resistant to this type of phenomenon and can survive. We would like to help farmers more and pay the aid in such a way as to ensure that the aid provides income when farmers could get it, because this is generally the case for crops that have not yet been harvested from the fields, so that this would be at a time when it will be certain that these losses have occurred. Because it is still important to remember that some crops are self-regenerating, so the point is that here during the harvest period, which is the hardest and most important for farmers, this aid has already been known and paid as soon as possible. Of course, there are still permanent forms of aid, i.e. a preferential loan to restore agricultural production, which has been in operation for years and can be granted to such farms. The interest rate on such a loan is low, it should be around 2% less than 2% for the farmer. Unfortunately, if the field is not insured, again 50% in this loan the farmer's share must be higher. Aid may still be available in the form of reliefs, waivers or deferrals for payment of contributions by the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. In the case of the lease by the real estate agency, this case also concerns the possibility of redemption, distribution, transfer of payment of lease fees. Of course, local authorities also have the possibility to provide assistance in taxes, in agricultural tax, in commitments towards municipalities and local authorities. We are also planning to launch this year the selection of proposals for action to re-create the potential of farms, to re-create agricultural production within the framework of EU measures. The Regulation is currently in the process of being agreed [[♪ The bell ♪]] and there will be an opportunity, I hope, to make use of these measures this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u120	Do you, Mrs... Stay here, or maybe there'll be an extra question, Minister. Would you like to ask an additional question, or have you exhausted the answer... [[Very short.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u121	Minister, this is about changing the rules that the agricultural department is preparing, which you mentioned, so that this 70% share of damage can cover one crop, not the entire farm. How long do you plan to implement these provisions? When? Will they include farmers who have been injured so far?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u122	Of course, the aim of the proposed amendment is to make it possible for the aid granted this year to also cover these farmers with this form of aid. Unfortunately, the bad news is that when it comes to the quantity data given by the Member, it is unfortunately increasing, and this applies to the next voivodships. Already in the Lublin region it is over 4 thousand. Ha, of which 1600 ha are just the ones where the losses are over 70% all over the farm. Also in Świętokrzyskie voivodship it is over 3,000. ha. A little smaller quantities are in Western Pomeranian, Wielkopolska and Podlaskie voivodships. However, as far as the Mazowieckie voivodship is concerned, there is a large amount of losses, because more than 30,000. ha, but here are the ones that exceed 70% There isn't. So we would like to help these farms, which, due to market difficulties, may have recently had problems, and now they have lost their crops, lost their income, much of the income this year, help to replace this income in the autumn period with state aid. We also encourage you to insure yourself under the insurance system, which will, I hope, be improved from next year - work is underway - because this also allows you to provide higher aid in the event of such damage. As I said, this is the result of EU law, not the Polish idea. We would like to help Polish farmers as much as possible, but this requirement is, and it would be good if farmers were also able to benefit from this form of insurance, which we will propose, and then to help the state on the one hand, but also for insurance companies to participate in compensation for these farmers. Therefore, we will try very hard to make sure that there are more insurance subsidies, this is also a form of aid for Polish farmers, so that these insurances are available, because, as last year shows, this year, but also probably the history of life in the countryside, we can deal with extraordinary phenomena at any time and we must be prepared for them on the one hand and, on the other hand, have the opportunity to support farmers, also legal in this respect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u123	Thank you very much. And the next question will be asked by members of the Civic Platform club on natural disasters in Poland and the lack of publication of warnings through the Regional Warning System. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Jarosław Zieliński. First question - Mr Andrzej Halicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This is a very serious topic, because this is an issue that we are increasingly dealing with, namely various types of weather disasters, whether storms or snowstorms cause not only obstacles in traffic or the need to repair damage, but unfortunately they are so violent that they even cause death of people and very dramatic accidents. Such events took place recently, I think of June 26th - three deaths, or 64 houses without roofs, in any case interventions that required immediate help for families without a roof over their heads or electricity. In July - 10, 11 July, from 11 to 12 July - also a huge storm, which had less tragic effects in the sense that there were no fatal accidents, but there was even more damage. And finally flooded with Gdansk - this is the last story. I wanted to start with my question by thanking the Minister, because this 1 billion that is in the budget today for repairing damages, for immediate intervention, is a minimum amount, I also tried for this amount, because this is the amount that came from our experience in previous years. There was initially 800 million in the budget, so this increase to this minimum amount is important. But the question is: How is it used today? Because you can't see these very fast interventions from the voivodships, and the voivodship crisis management centers are those that should immediately give information and statistics on these issues. An important question is the Regional Warning System, and you have inherited employees from the Department of Justice. Removing Elemental Disasters. This system practically cost us nothing thanks to good cooperation [[♪ The bell ♪]] with TV... Can I finish? 15 seconds. It is something that citizens are waiting for because this country guarantees their safety. Not using this system... For many months there have been no information or updates, in recent times they have appeared, but I can read a whole list of voivodships that do not do so. This is the job of the voivodships. If we have Warsaw, where these messages appear, then it is not Mazowieckie, this system in Warsaw has been divided into two decision centers. This concerns Pomorskie voivodship, it concerns western voivodships - Lubuskie, Opole, Dolnośląskie, where the first storms had an extremely large harvest. The Kujawsko-Pomorskie region is also known from previous years as a place where these damage is significant. I am talking about this in order to ensure that citizens, out of whom 0.5 million people have downloaded the app...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u125	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u126	...and expect such warnings, they received them, because it's no technical problem, it's just a question of the obligation of voivodship officials to use the system that is already there. And I ask the Minister to promote this system, it really doesn't cost anything, and we are envious of this system of Germans, Americans, who are visiting our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u127	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u128	I hope that this appeal with understanding will be accepted and implemented by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u129	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Yes. I think we accept everything with understanding. We're listening. But it is true that in recent times, as actually every year at a similar time, we are dealing with negative weather phenomena - waves of heat, storms, rains and strong winds. These phenomena cause damage, cause damage. In any case, the services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall endeavour to minimise the effects of the above. phenomena and arrivals with the help of those who have suffered losses. And the ministry and voivodships, as well as other services, warn against threats. That was the case, Members, in the case described by your fellow Members. There, in this written speech, we had above all the indicated Łódź voivodship and four other voivodships, together five. This included, among others, the following: strong winds and intense rainfall at the end of June this year, and, precisely, the date of June 26 was given. I would like to reassure you first of all that, with regard to the warning, because this is an important element raised in your speech, the regional warning system works and acted at the end of June this year. Its functioning did not end with a change of power, but on the contrary, we consider this project very necessary, very functional, it is developed and will be developed, it is conducted substantively by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and voivodships. Public awareness of the existence and importance of this solution is also growing. Never enough promotions. Of course, I agree that it is worth promoting, it is worth spreading the knowledge that it is functioning so that more citizens can benefit from it. The regional warning system is primarily an instrument in the hands of the voivodships. That's what he thought. It is thanks to their duty services located in voivodship crisis management centers that the system is powered in content. From the beginning it was intended that the system should be as close as possible to the citizen, hence its implementation at regional, voivodship level, and the generation of warnings of such a regional nature. It goes on here, for example. weather and hydrological warnings, which are included in the system through cooperation with the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. Other information held by the voivodeship services shall also be included in the RSO. And it is these services that decide to place content in the system according to certain parameters, of course. It goes on here, for example. information on fire hazards, but also road information, received from the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, or, for example, information on the search for missing persons. It is worth mentioning that the Regional Alert System also includes the Ministry's crisis guidelines - now 19 - which can be very useful to citizens every day. RSO is currently included in TVP channels, all over multiplex 3, broadcast on digital terrestrial TV, TVP1, TVP2, TVP Regional, TVP Info, TVP Culture, TVP Polonia, TVP History, TVP Entertainment. In the TV set RSO is available in three views: on the TV screen, on the belt on the TV screen and on hybrid television. RSO is also addressed to smartphone users. For them, a mobile application has been introduced for the three most widespread operating systems. There is no time, because it is very limited due to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, to accurately describe how the regional warning system works. It would be worth more time someday because it deserves it. But I have to cut it short of necessity. Ladies and gentlemen, High Sejm, I would like to inform you that contrary to the information that you have just mentioned once again in your earlier question, the fact that you have placed the last RSO communication in the Łódź voivodeship in January this year. RSO works well across the country. It is used differently, it is true, but it works and works well in our assessment, including, of course, in the Łódź voivodship. It is worth recalling the division of messages showing in RSO. It appears that depending on the extent of their validity, as decided by the voivodship crisis management centers, appropriate information shall be provided in this system, which shall be divided into: alerts, warnings and alarm warnings. In addition to messages placed in the system according to this breakdown, RSO is also generated up-to-date information on the state of water shown on water indicators throughout the country. Now I will refer to the numbers to show that it is not, however, the way Members present it. In the first half of 2016, a total of 64 036 water state information was generated in the Łódź Voivodship, as well as 127 notifications and two alarm warnings. It is worth pointing out that in the regional warning system from 1 January to 30 June 2016, for the last six months, a total of 6459 notifications, 1309 warnings and 8 alerts have been generated throughout the country. By the end of the second quarter of 2016, the RSO mobile application was downloaded by users, the Member pointed to this number, actually 505 271 times. The system's communications focused on meteorological warnings, hydrological conditions, road information and other safety-relevant information. So once again, I would like to reassure Members that the RSO is acting and continues to fulfil its function for which it has been launched, warns citizens of all kinds of threats. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it will be developed. If your marshal would allow it, I would say two words about these reactions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u131	Maybe as part of a total response in the second part. At best, I'll extend the time for this. And now Mr Jan Grabiec will ask an additional question. If you're gonna drop the question... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I'd like to say more... [[Maybe Mr Halicki.]] There'll be a total response. Let me finish. Mr Halicki wants to ask a question, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u132	I don't want to argue. If we have an announcement as if we had a more serious discussion about this, or promotion of this system as well, then I would only draw one attention. Firstly, the Minister spoke a lot about reporting messages, i.e. those which are presented on a daily basis by the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management, or hydrological communications sent to the Centre, and especially good - because the General Directorate of Roads and Motorways does so - communications are generated, but today we are talking primarily about alarm warnings. If there was a warning in Łódź not to enter the forest, it is good, because there is a heat issue, but there were storms and hurricane warnings. If we don't keep it up, we don't get used to it... Especially during the holidays it is worth to say that this application can also serve to issue water warnings, GOPR, WOPR, you can include other services, because it is within reach. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then we have one information center, including a warning center. It is worth promoting and developing, to be sensitive to the voivodship, because they are actually responsible for this. I think you saw it last year. I feel a little bit like I'm caring for my own child, and that's why I'm taking it emotionally, but I don't think that this project can be pulled out of this cooperation with the voivodships, but above all, at the initiative of the Ministry in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u133	So let us give the Minister a chance to answer the earlier question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u134	Mr President, Minister from that time, I sense the intention of this question. Of course, you could ask this question more simply: Did you do the right thing by running this system? Answer: Okay. [[That's not the point.]] We'll develop it, we'll develop it. I promise here, as in advance, that we will actually pay attention to whether the voivodeships are using this system evenly throughout the country, because it really needs to be investigated. I said we'd promote him. It's worth it. We would like this system to be developed to the extent that, at some point, we would like to see it possible - as soon as possible - it could be achieved - so that citizens can receive messages on mobile phones warning about important threats, as is the case in other European countries. [[There's an agreement with everyone... it's been two years.]] We're going in that direction. As far as costs are concerned - PLN 1 million per year. It's not cost-effective. This is not a great amount of money, of course, but let us remind you: this is how much this system costs a year. We will, of course, negotiate further agreements for the years to come. I won't be able to answer the question about help, so I'll skip it in advance, and I'll do it consciously so that I can recall a few more figures about the events in question and some information about the communications. If you wish, we will respond in writing because we are prepared to do so with regard to the amount of aid, procedures, procedures, rules for the allocation of aid in the event of losses in households, especially as regards housing, the participation of municipalities in these activities, the participation of voivodships, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Minister of Finance. It all works, it's described. You have to react quickly, indeed it is very important to react very quickly. In the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, applications do not wait long, they are dealt with immediately, but we are one of the elements, links throughout the chain. You have to remember that, too. This depends primarily on how quickly the damage is estimated and how quickly the proposals are presented. However, going back to 26, or actually 25, 26, 27 and 28 June, I would like to say that both on 25 June and 26 June this year, so during this period, which you have asked for, warnings have been generated in the RSO, including weather warnings, warning against storms, hailstorms, rainfalls and windstorms. On June 25, 32 warnings were issued, and on June 26, 31 warnings were issued. They concerned all voivodships, including of course five voivodships mentioned by you in a written address: Łódź, Dolnośląskie, Świętokrzyskie, Warmińsko-Mazurskie and Mazowieckie. Due to the particular interest of Members of the Łódź Voivodeship, I would like to present a communication which was generated just on June 26th in 7th. 30 and 20. It sounded like this: IMGW warns Łódź - storms with hail on 26 June, rains up to 40 mm, wind surges up to 90 km/h. The area of the voivodship is forecast to have storms with rain from 20 mm to 30 mm, [[♪ The bell ♪]] locally up to 40 mm...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u135	Does the Minister need more time? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I'm asking for an extension of... I'm gonna extend it. I just wanted to ask you if it's a minute. If it doesn't, I'll throw it in. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: As many marshals as you like, that's all I'm gonna say. Then I'll finish. ...and grabs winds up to 90 km/h, locally hail. The highest intensity of phenomena in the eastern part of the voivodship. This was the message made available in RSO all day long. The day before, on 25 June, as a result of storm fronts crossing the country, there were numerous failures in electricity transmission networks caused by strong winds. Indeed, in the peak period, about an hour. 21 without electricity remained in Poland 65 300 customers, mostly in Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Lubuskie voivodships, also in Mazowieckie, Silesian and Pomeranian voivodships. During this time, the State Fire Department recorded 1965 local events related to the removal of the effects of strong wind and heavy rain, the passage of the storm front. On 26 June, following the passage of successive storm fronts across the country, numerous power grid failures also occurred. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's one more minute to go. I think that's enough. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I'm almost done, Marshal. In the peak period... One more minute, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you very much. Therefore, ca. h. 21 electricity supply was deprived of approx. 62 200 recipients. On 27 June the State Fire Department noted 861 interventions related to the removal of storm effects that occurred in the country on 26 June. On 28 June, around 1 000 were left without electricity. recipients in the Łódź voivodship, in the Piotrków powiats, Opoczynski in particular. The malfunctions were removed by the end of the same day on 28 June. I quote these figures as some evidence that there is a lot of intervention that the State Fire Department is taking. Other services also need to respond frequently, because these are, unfortunately, situations that cause loss, the effects of nature forces must be removed. It all happened smoothly, quickly, but we can't really prevent this from happening. Therefore, warning that danger is approaching is of great importance and we will use this system. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Thank you for saying that. Your marshal, thank you for your understanding.]] I hope that the time spent on this issue at least satisfied the questioners. Let's move on to the next question. Members of the club Law and Justice will ask a question about the failure to announce the tender procedure for the priority section Via Baltica from Ostrów Mazowiecka to Szczuchczyn. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, and will be answered by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Jerzy Szmit. The first question will be asked by Dariusz Piontkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Via Baltica is a road to connect the Baltic Sea to the North Sea. On its north-eastern section it is the shortest road from Warsaw to the Baltic States. The previous government in the programme of infrastructure and environment did not provide funds for the construction of this section, especially from Ostr to Szchuczyn, and yet it was said that it was a road that should be built. We are very pleased that the current government has managed to ensure that the northern section from Szchuczyn will be financed by the Connecting Europe programme. Preliminary contracts have already been signed at the beginning of June. This is a very positive message, very well received. However, there were still questions about what would happen to this section from Ostr to Ratchczyn. Hence the announcement of the officials that there is a chance that this money will nevertheless be included in the programme of infrastructure and the environment, we were very pleased. This section with a length of about 86 km is almost PLN 3.5 billion. That's the estimated cost. Although the officials from your ministry have already spoken on this subject several times, we are still hearing questions about the situation, because tenders have already been announced for sections north of Szchuczyn, there are already contractors, and here there is still no tender. That's where the questions come from. When will these tenders finally be announced? Are they certainly secured by EU funds, the programme and the state budget? Are you sure this will be a two-day standard? Our interlocutors remind us that basically there are already the most important documents that the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways has to be able to announce these tenders in the design and construction mode. Hence the expectation that tenders will be restricted as soon as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me remind you that this is one of the most frequented roads in this part of Poland. Last year there was an increase in traffic by 30%. Although the number of accidents is generally decreasing in Poland, the number of dangerous incidents has increased by 7% in this section. It therefore appears that it would be very desirable to proceed to the tenders as soon as possible and build this section. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u137	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Here I have four Members listed as asking a question, which is why I am speaking in the plural. The S61 expressway is part of Via Baltica throughout the section from Ostrów Mazowiecka to Budziska, i.e. to the border with Lithuania. I am indeed fully confirming what the Member has just said about the importance of this road, about the need to modernise it, and also about the fact that today, as traffic has increased very rapidly in the recent period, it has indeed already become one of the least safe, the most dangerous - in fact it would have to be said - the national roads in Poland, the more part of the modernisation work is already underway, which is even more dangerous. But these works, which were already started today on several episodes, will soon be over. I think at least this part of the case will be solved quickly. It is also true that on the part of the road from Budzik to Szchuczyn additional money was obtained from the European Union, from the CEF Fund, Connecting Europe, so beyond what is in the National Road Fund, beyond what is in the state budget. I want to make it clear, once again, from this stand on behalf of the government, on behalf of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, that our goal is to implement the entire Via Baltica as quickly as possible. But in the case of road investments, it is sometimes such that these procedures, which are necessary to arrive at implementation and even to reach the decision on implementation, are simply ongoing. In addition to all the problems that I have repeatedly mentioned in this tribune concerning the financing of the entire National Road Construction Programme, what we have received, this lack of funding from the predecessors, we must approach this as a situation throughout the country. That is why we have actually made efforts today to reduce road construction costs, to change nature protection law, but there has also been a very significant change in the situation as a result of the change in public procurement law. We have, however, written that on 28 July this law finally enters into force, it is the amended Public Procurement Law, but the head, the President of the Public Procurement Office, has requested public contracting entities to suspend tenders, to issue tenders until this law enters into force so that this new law can already be implemented, because there was a danger that if tenders were drawn up under the old Public Procurement Law, this could be challenged by the European Union. But I'm gonna go through with it, and I'm gonna go back to what's most important, which is basically the question you asked. The S16 road is a new part of the national road of the GP class, so as expected. Given the state of play at the moment, it can be said that the General Directorate will be ready to announce the tender this year. And there's a lot that points to it... I do not want to speak hard and unambiguously here, because, as I said, this decision is an element concerning the approval of the entire National Road Construction Programme, so what we need to do in order to implement it all over the country, but let me put it this way: everything points to the fact that this investment will find, will get funding and indeed this year the tender will be announced. The whole construction, more than 90 km, should be completed - this is a possibility - by the end of 2021. It will be a two-way road, practically entirely followed by a new track, adapted to the load capacity of 115 kN/axis and design speed - this is the technical parameter - 110 km/h, along with accompanying infrastructure, engineering facilities and all necessary road safety and nature protection devices. Also in the framework of this investment, a long-awaited and most justified investment is to be made, I am talking about the ring road of Łomża. Indeed, today's traffic situation in Łomża, congestion, truck traffic, which takes place in the city - these are situations that need to be stopped as soon as possible. I think we're on the right track today, so that these long-awaited investments can finally be realised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u139	Thank you very much. And the additional question will be asked by Mrs Bernadette Krynick. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We know that road S61 will be strategically important not only for north-eastern Poland, but also for the whole region. The chosen course of this path is the best possible. Lomza, the land of Łomża has been waiting for this investment for over 20 years. I have a question. Were there any protests about S61? If they were, what were they? Could any protests delay this investment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! There are protests in the implementation of every major road investment, but from the information that I have and which I have just presented, in some sense, speaking of the fact that there is a good chance that a tender will be launched this year and that the documentation is also almost ready... I can therefore say, on the basis of this information, that if there were any protests, any problems with protests, with appeals, they were happyly ended and we are close to taking action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for asking me questions. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by the Members of the Law and Justice Club to sign an agreement with the Italian company Astaldi to build a tunnel in the Zakopane. The question is to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Jerzy Szmit will answer. The first question will be asked by Anna April. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister of Infrastructure and Construction Andrzej Adamczyk signed a contract with the Italian company Astaldi for the construction of a tunnel in Zakopane on 29 June. This investment has been awaited by all Poles for many years. It is not only of great tourist importance, but also of economic importance. I ask you kindly to give details of the implementation of this investment, i.e. the cost of the investment and the deadline for its implementation. Please zoom in on the details of the investment, such as the length of the tunnel, its course, special places such as nodes, distribution to other localities. Please also indicate what obstacles the driver may expect and how the road to Zakopane will be organised in the course of the investment. I would like to stress that Poland is also waiting for this investment, because Zakopane is a unique place. In fact, for many years I have spent a lot of time standing in traffic to Zakopane, especially during holiday periods, during extended weekends. So that we are very happy that this investment will be realised. I'm asking you to bring the details up to speed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u144	I ask you, Minister, to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, Indeed, this investment: modernisation, construction - in fact, it can be said, to a large extent, construction - so-called. Zakopane is a matter that is of great importance to the whole of Poland. Millions not only of Poles, but in general people who visit the Tatra Mountains visit Podhale, Zakopane, have been waiting for this investment for many years. Therefore, I have the honour to present a few details of this investment, to which the agreement was signed by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk on 29 June this year, which is already the specific programme to be implemented. The investment will build a tunnel section of the S-class road with a length of approx. 3 km, with a two-track tunnel of 2,06 km long, with emergency passage between chambers, two portals, as well as full infrastructure and technical equipment, i.e. in the highest standard of this type of investment. All over the world, tunnels are created in various forms, but what is also extremely important for safety reasons is that it will be a two-chamber tunnel, so in case of some kind of breakdown it will be possible to direct traffic, there will be no risks associated with it. The total length of this investment is 3.6 km, 3600 m. It passes through Mount Luboń Little with very steep slopes and therefore the tunnel was chosen as the best course, the best from the technical point of view of solving this problem, this investment. The estimated cost is PLN 1100 million and therefore very important costs are presented here. The deadline declared by the contractor is 54 months, so nearly 6 years, but given the scale of this project, it is hardly surprising. Surveillance has also been selected, so there is nothing to prevent this investment from starting. Obstructions during construction. This construction will be carried out on the so-called. the new trail, so it will not touch the current course of the road, and therefore on the current course the movement will normally be possible, at least on the main course. It's not gonna be like this everywhere. In this connection, the general management is obliged to designate sections which require small bypasses, in agreement with the contractors, so that the problems associated with the implementation of this investment are as small as possible. In fact, once again, the huge challenge, also technical, will be the longest tunnel in Poland, will be solutions that have not yet been applied. So in addition to the issues relating to transport itself, the easing of traffic itself, communication cohesion will also be a huge technical challenge for all those who will implement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u146	I would like to ask you another question from Catherine Chechara. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u147	Minister! I wanted to ask you an extra question. Another critical point in the Zakopane is the ruined bridge in Biały Dunajec near Poronin. Unfortunately, due to the protests of the inhabitants, the construction of a new bridge was not started, which was to be built next to the old crossroads. My question is: Does the Ministry of Infrastructure have plans to solve this problem so that they also receive acceptance of the local community?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u148	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u149	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It was a big problem, you can say, actually for many years there was a conflict with those who designed this bridge and then wanted to renovate it, modernize it, and actually there was also a concept of building again, building in a new place. It caused a huge conflict there. These are areas in which respect for property, also respect for tradition, to fatherhood is huge, and therefore it is very difficult sometimes to choose physically a place where some investment for a public purpose should be carried out. In the end, however, and here I am going to the good part of the speech, it was possible to agree and this bridge will rise in the so-called. An old run, so that's where he was. It will be undressed first and then built. This allowed this conflict to end and final agreement. The full documentation is completed, in the middle of next year it is planned to sign a contract with the implementation period until 2018 for technical reasons. In turn, unlike the tunnel, this is a relatively simple engineering undertaking. Bridges in Poland are being built several hundred today, it is not a technical problem, it was just a documentary problem, concerning ownership arrangements with people who did not want to give up their property. But, once again, the most important thing is that the problem has been solved, that there are relevant documents that are already in full force. The agreement is planned to be signed and then implemented by the end of 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u150	I thank the Minister very much for his answer and thank the Members for their questions. Let's move on to the next question. They will also be asked by the Members of the Law and Justice Club. The question will be on the practices used to determine the price of medicines for large pharmacies, so-called. online drugstores with which they have no chance of competing small family pharmacys. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Krzysztof Łanda. We begin with the question that Mrs Joanna Borowiak will ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The problem concerns the prices of medicines and the practices used to determine them in relation to large pharmacies, so-called. online drugstores with which they have no chance to compete small, often family pharmacies. The representatives of small pharmacies report them as unacceptable practices. And so, first of all, the price of buying drugs and access to drugs. Networks purchase large quantities of packages of a particular drug, unlike small pharmacies have the means to do so, and receive additional discounts for this purpose, 30-50% discount. Small pharmacies buy several packages, they receive a much smaller discount, 5 In addition, pharmacies chains have the possibility to order large quantities, large batches of drugs directly from the manufacturer. With small pharmacies, the manufacturer doesn't even talk at such small orders. Small pharmacies can order and buy drugs only through wholesalers - the network also thus orders and buys medicines, but the price here is significantly reduced, wholesalers have prepared separate warehouse space for the network. In addition, there is a privileged pharmacies network in access to medicines. I have information about the need to register small pharmacies in line to buy drugs, it's something extraordinary. Large networks have drugs, they don't have to sign up. Second practice, so-called "exhibition." marketing invoices - when the manufacturer cannot apply a discount on a given drug, it compensates for this by issuing a marketing invoice. Minister, such practices cause enormous inequality and cause the elimination of small pharmacies. Does the Ministry of Health plan to create solutions that will help protect small, often family pharmacies from such devastating practices? Many small pharmacies have already been wound up, and others are on the verge of bankruptcy. We need protection of Polish pharmacies. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u152	Thank you so much for asking. And I will ask for an answer from Minister Krzysztof Łanda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u153	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the Ministry of Health is in the position that it is important that there is a balance in the pharmacies market, that is, that there is a network pharmacy and a family pharmacy, let's call it a small family pharmacy. Of course, at the moment there is a shift in this balance towards network pharmacies, what we observe and what we consider to be the wrong trend. Hence we will certainly try to stop this trend. Work is underway at the Ministry of Health on major amendments, i.e. on a major amendment to the Refund Act - it can be said that it is in the process of internal consultation at the moment, it will soon go to external consultations - as well as, and they are very intense, on a major revision of the Pharmaceutical Law. This is the main act that will stop the negative trends we're watching. I am not going to talk about specific solutions at the moment, because it is premature to talk about it, but you will soon see it, some of these solutions will see the light of day - I think, even before a major revision of the pharmaceutical law for public consultation is notified. Ladies and gentlemen, we have some difficulty here, of course, because, for the time being, we are making provisions for a major revision of the pharmaceutical law de facto without the chief pharmaceutical inspector, because the second competition already at this moment, which we have announced, which we are carrying out, is still not settled. Who knows, maybe you'll need a third contest. Soon to announce. In any case, it is difficult to write pharmaceutical law if it is merely acting and there is no de facto chief pharmaceutical inspector who will then be responsible for the implementation of this law. So here I am simply calling for the whole procedure to be speeded up in some way. As for the plans of the Ministry of Health, I will tell you immediately that this is the legal situation at present, and in this respect it will not change that the Minister of Health determines the official prices of the medicines reimbursed. These prices, in terms of pharmacies, are rigid prices. In fact, there are no differences between network pharmacies and family pharmacies. On the other hand, we do not regulate the prices of medicines which are not refunded; it would be contrary to EU law if we proposed such regulations. It's a fact, but it can't be on the other hand yes - of course it can be much more, it's also market law, so large pharmacies or groups of family pharmacies can get better conditions of distribution, better prices or better any other conditions associated with buying drugs - that dumping prices are used. And that's a fact, and that's a serious threat, because it generates an unfair game in the pharmacy market. And that's what we're going to try to counter with determination. Today, the application of the dumped prices should be dealt with by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, but believe me - I do not want to speak as President of this office at the moment - it seems to me that the office's personnel resources are in some way too limited to respond effectively to the scale of this phenomenon throughout Poland. That is why in pharmaceutical law - again, I do not want to talk about detailed solutions at the moment - you will see very strong regulations which, I am convinced, will practically eliminate dumping in the pharmacy market. That's what we can do, and it's certain it's going to be done, at least on the ministry's side. In addition, we are introducing regulations on advertising, on the concentration of the market, we want to bring back the voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors to the chief pharmaceutical inspector, which means there would be a verticalisation of the inspection, which, I think, will improve the performance of the duties by the WIFs, i.e. the voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors. Ladies and gentlemen, I ordered at the end of December Ub. r. visits to all voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors, they took place and then there were checks in three voivodships. They showed a number of weaknesses and irregularities. Among other things, because there is no such pionization, the voivodships of pharmaceutical inspectors deal with secondary, third and fourth cases, this weight, and do not respond to what is happening at the moment, where there are serious irregularities in relation to the existing law. So we can see the problem, of course we're working on it. We ask you to make any specific proposals, we will certainly consider them, I am just saying - these proposals must comply with EU law and comply with certain market-game rules described in the law. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u154	Second question. Please stay, because the Member asks them from the parliamentary bench, so it will be more efficient. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will ask another additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u155	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question actually relates to the Minister's statement, namely: Is it possible to regulate the prices and discounts of prescription medicines in order to eliminate the so-called. Traveling patients from pharmacy to pharmacy in search of cheaper drugs? Second question. Is it true that 60% The pharmacy market is in the so-called. Nets? The Minister stresses the support of family pharmacies, where it is already a tradition of decades. I think what the Minister also stresses is that this is a very important direction to eliminate these prices of dumping in nets, because it is largely hitting on these family pharmacys. I would also ask you to pay attention to [[♪ The bell ♪]] cooperation with pharmacy chambers from all voivodships. I think such a meeting on the occasion of the amendment would be very appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u156	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u157	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to talk about a few ideas, I'm just saying, they're still in the process of, like, realization and detailing. However, I will start by saying that we still have very good contact with the Supreme Pharmacy Council, but we are also talking, of course, with representatives of online drugstores and with PASMI, an association that deals with non-pharmaceutical marketing. Let me tell you, this contact is actually very good. We are discussing individual, very detailed, concrete solutions with them. As I say, they will be included in the Act, in the amendment of the Refund and Pharmaceutical Law and in the Law on the Occupation of Pharmacy, which is also being processed at the moment, and I think that it will soon see the light of day. What I want to say to you is that we are interested in maintaining a healthy balance in this market, that is, that there should not be domination on either side. We see that this dominance is progressing and the networks are taking over a larger part of the market, but at the moment we estimate that this is about 30%. The market, not 60%. However, we also observe such movement that pharmacies, these family, small ones, often join in small shopping groups. I think that this particular direction, family pharmacy belonging to different pharmacists, to different capital they make together purchases, is not a bad solution, because it causes them to buy these preparations not refunded at better prices. As I said, we will certainly fight this at dumped prices. Ladies and gentlemen, we'd like to introduce pharmaceutical care as well. The pharmacy is a special place. Pharmacies are specialists, and if this care is introduced, I think it should be assigned to the pharmacist, and that should stabilise the number of pharmacies in our family. And the other thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that we want family drugstores to be a place where you buy drugs that are important to the health of the population, not shampoo, iron or any other nonsensical stuff that shouldn't be in the pharmacy. That's not what the pharmacy's for. And we're going to want to definitely reduce this assortment here. We're also working on a change of margins, but I want you to treat it in a passwordal manner for now, okay? This isn't about changing the margins that are currently in force, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have other ideas for this, but as I say, it's all about stability, healthy balance, healthy behavior...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u158	Does the Minister need an extension of his time? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Krzysztof Łanda: No, thank you. Then thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Krzysztof Łanda: I bow down. We're approaching the last group of questions. This is where three people came in. Therefore, in the first part, in 2 minutes, I will take into account the questions of the two Members, and the additional question will be asked by the last Member who has submitted to his task. Questions are on delays in the use by local governments of EU funds under regional operational programmes for 2014 and 2020 for health investments. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza. I would like to ask you a first question, Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As important as investment needs are in hospitals, here it concerns buildings, but also equipment, not only hospital directors, but also representatives of creating bodies, and above all patients, who use these services. Unfortunately, hospitals do not have at their disposal such funds, their own resources to cover these very costly investments. Often, the formation bodies are indebted and cannot support hospitals in this regard either. On the other hand, the law obliges hospitals to adapt the conditions under which health services are provided to certain standards and the deadline is specifically indicated in the Act by the end of next year. In such a situation, EU funds are one of the opportunities to raise funds for hospital investment. We know that in this financial perspective there are over PLN 12 billion earmarked for investments in health care. That's a lot of money. On the other hand, we are getting signals that these funds are not distributed, competitions are not organised, there is no information on how these funds are used. I therefore have a question: Does the Ministry monitor the use of European Union funds for investment in hospitals and is it aware of possible delays in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u160	And the second question will be asked by Anna Cichocka... Silent, sorry, no glasses I had a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u161	Minister! It is also worrying that the voivodship boards decide to distribute these funds to a large extent outside the competition procedures, which always raises suspicion of lack of transparency in the spending of EU funds. Therefore, I have a question: Does the Ministry provide for action [[♪ The bell ♪]] to safeguard transparency in the spending of EU funds? If so, what is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u162	I ask you, Minister Piotr, to give me an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u163	Dear Marshal! Dear Mr Fellowship, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! However, in the context of this question at the beginning, I would like to say two sentences about a certain systemic remark. It should be stressed that spending European funds, in particular in the healthcare sector, should not only focus on the rate of spending, but above all on the validity and quality of investment, while not generating additional costs for the public health system. Investment measures in the health sector generate an increase in public expenditure from the National Health Fund for the provision of health services. Any investment that increases the scope of benefits makes it necessary to increase the spending of the National Health Fund to finance their possibility in the public health system. Investment from European sources should therefore be planned in such a way as to increase quality and accessibility, but at the same time not to generate unnecessary costs in the public health system. In this context, it is worth recalling the findings of the 2013 NIK audit. NIK inspection, report on this inspection. The purchase and use of medical equipment co-financed by regional operational programmes, May 2013. In the overall assessment of the controlled activity, NIK carried out the following important assessment, and I quote: In the framework of the Regional Operational Programmes for 2007-2013, health care establishments could apply for EU funds to finance projects for the purchase of modern medical equipment adapting their equipment to existing standards and allowing for broadening the scope of health services provided. And further: However, more than 30% of the 33 hospitals audited did not achieve the planned results, in particular the expected number of benefits, while implementing the assumptions adopted at the level of 3 to 90%. In the NIK's assessment, the degree of use of the apparatus examined had an impact on the decision to grant the grant without an analysis of the health needs and to assess the availability of the benefits provided using such equipment, as well as the failure to ensure adequate coordination of its purchasing activities. This situation was also affected by irregularities found in hospitals, not ensuring adequate conditions for the provision of benefits as well as delays in the preparation of the diagnostic room. As a result, due to the low value of contracts concluded with, or even lack of, the National Health Fund, the possibility of using the equipment purchased to provide paid health benefits has been undermined by the financial results of certain controlled entities. The need to concentrate on the validity, quality of investment in the health sector has also been recognised by the European Commission, which is reflected in the Partnership Agreement, as well as in the requirements set for the health sector in ex ante conditionality. Therefore, as well as the results of the NIK audit and the expectations of the European Commission at the Ministry of Health, measures have been taken to coordinate investments made from European funds at both regional and central level. To this end, in line with the Partnership Agreement, a Steering Committee for the coordination of interventions in the health sector has been established, health needs maps containing detailed information on health infrastructure have been developed. In addition, the Minister of Health has developed a tool to assess the purpose of the investment, i.e. IOWISZ's health investment application assessment form, through which the competent institutions will be able to carry out a uniform analysis of the projects planned for implementation. Currently, the Seym is being revised by the Act on Public-funded healthcare provision, which introduces this tool. At the same time, it should be stressed that the Ministry of Development itself coordinates regional operational programmes. One of the tools for coordination is this steering committee as a sub-committee of the Partnership Agreement. This steering committee for coordination is composed of representatives of regions, central offices, including the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Development, Ministry of Finance, and representatives of the so-called. the third sector, i.e. non-public entities and a number of associations. However, its powers and tasks are limited, mainly to the adoption of the so-called. action plans for the health sector containing timetables for competitions and proposals for non-competition projects, issuing recommendations for selection criteria. These tasks shall be carried out on an ongoing basis and, in particular, the Committee shall not have the power to impose time limits and detailed conditions for launching the selection of projects on the various marshals. These are the competences of individual managing authorities, i.e. marshals, and monitoring committees for each operational programme. As regards the transparency of the selection of the projects referred to by the honourable Member, it should be stressed that the rules in force within the framework of the European Funds allow the use of the non-competition procedure. In the case of the health sector, the principle has been adopted that each case of such a non-competition project must be accepted by the steering committee - so it is important that these files be analysed by the secretariat of the steering committee, i.e. by the Minister of Health - and then submitted at the meeting of the steering committee and evaluated by the whole body, which takes a decision by majority. It's worth knowing that the government side doesn't have most of it on the steering committee. As for the question of fulfilling... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u164	Minister, maybe you can answer after you've asked for an additional question, because there's still time for that. Stay on the speaker, because I think the Member will ask a question from the parliamentary jury. Now, I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka, an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u165	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I have a question. What is the degree of progress in the allocation of EU funds for which the Ministry of Health or its subordinate bodies are the managing authority? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u166	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u167	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! First of all, I would like to say that the Ministry of Health is not formally a managing authority, it is an intermediate institution, but I understand that the intention of the question is to present the activities of the Ministry of Health in this area. The Ministry is an intermediary institution in the area of the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment and the Operational Programme of the Knowledge, education and development. Thus, in the area of the Operational Programme, infrastructure and the environment, in the 2014-2020 perspective, priority 9.: Strengthening strategic health infrastructure are actions 9.1: Medical rescue infrastructure and 9.2: The infrastructure of trans-regional medicinal entities and in this respect two competitions have been announced to support existing hospital emergency services. The planned deadline for completion of the evaluation is August 2016 and the signing of the first grant agreements - the fourth quarter of 2016. In addition, four competition procedures were launched to support supra-regional hospitals providing fixed and 24-hour health services to adults and diagnostic laboratories dedicated to cardiovascular diseases. This is due to the fact that maps of health needs, which are an important element of the assessment of investment projects, were prepared at the end of the previous year and then positively received by the European Commission. And these are two calls and two calls for a range of cancer diseases. Evaluation of applications for funding - IV quarter 2016 Signing of contracts - II quarter 2017 In addition, we have several non-competition projects under this programme. These relate to 14 projects of existing trauma centres. At the next meeting of the Steering Committee, which will take place tomorrow, i.e. on Friday, it is planned to present the approval of the Health Action Plan for this operational programme and project plans for the following types of projects: the creation of new trauma centres - eight projects, the creation of new SORs - 14 projects, the construction or repair of 24-hour aerodromes or helicopter landing sites - one project, the equipment of rescue helicopters with suitable equipment - one project. In the case of the Operational Programme, the knowledge, education, development, seven competitions have been announced, including five of them have already been decided. Four competitions are planned by the end of 2016. There are seven non-competition projects in progress. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u168	I'll extend the time by one minute, if necessary, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Actually, I've exhausted the subject. I would just like to add that if more detailed information were needed, I can, of course, give it in writing. Because of the time that the speaker has here, I had to concentrate on the most important things and also give you information quickly enough to tell you everything. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, then. These questions shall end the examination of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the effects of the amendment of the Act amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws on which the Modern Posel Club introduced the presentation will be considered. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club, please take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u169	I just don't know who the government's gonna be. Oh, there you are, Minister. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 30 November 2015, the Presidential Sejm received a draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, print No 62. The project concerns the restoration of the pensionable age of 60 years for women and for men 65 years old, the liquidation of partial pensions, and includes solutions whereby the coverage of the insured person with the guarantee of the lowest pension benefit would depend on the achievement of a gender-diversified contribution period. We have therefore asked the President of the Council of Ministers to provide information, bearing in mind the financial impact of the adoption of a law, which may include an increase in the expenditure of the public finance sector in relation to the amount resulting from the existing legislation. We are talking about the effects of these changes. Has an analysis been prepared to determine the amount of the pension and the effects after the retirement age, especially for women up to the age of 60 and men up to 65 years of age? Does the Ministry, which will be responsible for implementing this law, have information on the financial situation of the Social Security Office and the consequences of the proposed changes for the budget of the Social Insurance Fund, as well as sources of funding for the reduction of the retirement age? Does the Council of Ministers, which adopted a position a few days ago, which maintained the principles of this law, see the space to reduce the retirement age and pursue the electoral promise in the face of the deteriorating financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund? The reduction of the retirement age according to the project proposed by the President of the Republic, i.e. the restoration of the retirement age, the liquidation of the possibility of obtaining a partial pension provided for in the previous law, a return to the principle that the inclusion of the insured person with the guarantee of the lowest pension benefit would be conditional on the achievement of a gender-diversified 20 years and 25 years for men - a premium and non-contributory period, and an appropriate adjustment of the retirement age for groups whose pension scheme defines other laws. Consequences for state finances. The justification for the presidential project provides for the costs of this project only for the years 2016-2019. This is a very short perspective. I'm assuming this perspective involves the fact that the PiS will only rule for four years. On the other hand, with regard to these calculations, the increase in subsidies from the Social Insurance Fund will amount to PLN 24 billion during this period, the increase in subsidies to the fund of the agricultural president of the social security fund - 5 billion, the increase in expenses for reducing the age of judges and prosecutors - 1,2 billions, other expenditures for this purpose, for this reason - 10 billion PLN. The data presented in the explanatory memorandum are simply manipulations. The significant costs of this law will actually be observed only after this period, after 2019. According to the figures that economists have calculated, by 2030 the cumulative costs will amount to almost 250 billion, to 2014/570 billion, and to 2050-1073 billion PLN. I do not know where the government will draw this money from, but I believe that this type of action is simply irresponsible. This is a demolishing of the state budget for the next 20, 30 years. We believe that the consequences of adopting this proposal will be regrettable to citizens. The 2012 estimates show that the average salary of a woman born in 1974, who started working at the age of 24, who retired at the age of 70, would be 3.5,000. zł. If you reduce your pension, it will be PLN 2032, i.e. her pension will decrease by 42%. We think this is total manipulation, because you say you'll work less, you'll go on vacation - I don't know if you'll repeat that this is a vacation for pensioners under palm trees - you're just forgetting one thing, that you're leading to a situation where [[♪ The bell ♪]] These people are going to get about 30%. lower allowance. Where is this information in the information and in the justification for this sick act? You're running away from the responsibility of making such a meaningless bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u170	I thank the Member for his speech. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have been authorized to answer the questions put in the letter by Katarzyna Lubnauer. We can say that we have asked the Minister of Finance to address the issues set out in this letter. We got a written reply yesterday. Let me remind you, with regard to the overall financial implications, of the presidential draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, the content of the position of the Minister of Finance: As regards the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund, I inform you that this situation is being monitored on an ongoing basis. The draft budget for 2017 is also underway. The project will also present the financial plan of the Social Insurance Fund, which will set out the revenue and expenditure plan, including the financing of the shortage of this fund in the following year. Information on the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund is widely available, as this year another long-term forecast by 2060 of the pension fund has been drawn up by the Social Insurance Institution in three options for shaping the economic situation of the country. The balance of the fund is negative throughout the forecast period, which means that the statutory solvency guarantee for social security benefits will have to be implemented in the long term. It should be recalled that the Social Insurance Act has identified various sources of funding for the Social Insurance Fund shortage, such as a grant from the state budget, interest-free loans from the state budget, possibly bank loans received with the agreement of the Minister responsible for public finances. The FUS pension fund may also be provided with funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund to supplement the deficit due to demographic reasons or in the form of an interest-free return loan. With regard to determining the consequences of the proposed changes on the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund, any estimate in the horizon by 2025 is presented in the draft position of the Government. I will move on to these estimates further. It should only be noted that in the adopted 19 July this year. The position of the Government requests that the Sejm consider the possibility of supplementing the presidential bill on modifications of certain solutions and that the Act enter into force at the earliest on 1 October 2017 due to the need to carry out all activities preparing the ZUS and the KRUS to carry out statutory amendments. Taking into account the government's request will affect the effects presented, but it will be possible to estimate them once new forecasts of the Social Security Office have been received, taking into account the new date of entry into force of the Act. With regard to the sources of funding for the reduction of the retirement age, it should be stressed that the government is pursuing fiscal policies using the instruments available, implementing its economic agenda in a way that promotes economic growth, while taking into account the constraints under national and EU law. When deciding on the final arrangements for determining the retirement age and the deadline for introducing the measures adopted, the government takes into account the possibilities of public finances in terms of financing the costs of reducing the retirement age. At this point it should be noted that since 2015 the budget law has been drawn up taking into account a stabilising expenditure rule aimed at ensuring the sustainability of Polish public finances. At present, attention in the budgetary process is focused on how a specific amount of expenditure is allocated in advance, not at its level. Actions on the expenditure side carried out within the framework provided by the so-called "government." stabilizing the expenditure rule is accompanied by measures to rebuild the stream of tax revenue, inter alia. by sealing the tax system. The government is carrying out intensified efforts to seal the tax system, which is consistent with the Ecofin Council's 2014 recommendation to Poland. The reform of the tax administration and its provision with modern IT tools will reduce the scope of VAT fraud and increase the collection of other taxes. The closing of the tax gap is currently a priority because the problems that have persisted in this respect for several years have led to the need to consolidate public finances that are too much on the expenditure side. As a result of the sealing of the tax system, it will be possible, in a way that is safe for the state's finances, to achieve social policy objectives, thus improving the economic situation of the household sector. At the same time, I would like to point out that the annex to the 2016 update of the convergence programme presents the measures sealing the tax system in the years 2017-2019. Most of the actions presented there are at an advanced stage of legislative work or have entered into force. With regard to the question concerning the fulfilment of the disposal provided for in Article. The 50th Public Finance Act, which requires the determination of the financial consequences, the indication of the source of funding, the description of the objectives of the new tasks and measures setting out the degree of achievement of the objectives, should indicate that, on the basis of the above-mentioned provision of the Public Finance Act, the Council of Ministers is required to present in the explanatory memorandum the above-mentioned provisions. information only for its own legal acts, i.e. projects adopted by the Council of Ministers. In view of the presidential proposal, the Council of Ministers is not obliged to do so. However, the government's position towards the presidential bill adopted by the Council of Ministers on 19 July presented the financial implications for the Social Insurance Fund, including the ESA 2010 principles applied by the European Commission, as well as the financial consequences in the farmers' social security system. I move on to specific questions about the assessment of the financial consequences. The position of the Council of Ministers adopted on 19 July 2016 included such estimates of the effects of reducing the retirement age to 60 years for women and 65 years for men. These are estimates for 9 years, starting from 1 January 2017, but according to the position of the Minister of Finance, at least for 2017 will have to be revised in view of the Council of Ministers' request that the proposed or planned law, this presidential bill reducing the retirement age, enter into force on 1 October 2017. So that I can present these effects if there is such expectation. I can say, for example, in 2017 that as far as the level of income to the Social Insurance Fund is concerned, these estimates assume that the revenue will increase. This is the effect, you can say, of speeding up the security slider mechanism that was introduced in the pension scheme in 2014 and which assumes that 10 years before the retirement age the contributions collected in the open pension fund will be gradually transferred to the Social Insurance Fund and registered on a special sub-account. Since the presidential project assumes a reduction in the retirement age, it also means speeding up, you can say, the actions of this safety slider, which will have a positive impact on the level of income to the Social Insurance Fund. Thus, for the option of the entry into force of the Act as of 1 January 2017, this projected increase in income to the Social Insurance Fund is at the level of PLN 2.9 billion. About [[♪ The bell ♪]] effects on expenditure on benefits, in 2017 this amount is PLN 8.6 billion. As far as the balance is concerned, this is, it can be said, the difference in terms of the reduction or deterioration of this balance, at the level of PLN 5600 million. This type of data can be presented for each year of the next 9 years. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Do any of you and your fellow Members still wish to speak? I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Beata Mazurek, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The reduction in the retirement age is a socially very expected reform and we, as Law and Justice, will certainly carry out this reform. It is a proposal that is a right and not an obligation, so if someone reaches retirement age and wants to retire, he will pass on to it, and if he has the strength, opportunity and willingness to work further, he will be able to work precisely to increase this pension. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Poles will once again have a choice. Question to the Minister: Is it and will be guaranteed to fund a reduction in the retirement age? I'm asking you to cut off all the speculation that comes from the opposition, saying that the U.S.S. is going to collapse, that there's going to be some kind of crash. and that there will be nothing to pay benefits that will benefit people. The second point is that the increase and equalisation of the retirement age introduced in Poland in 2012 was arbitrary, different from in other countries that decided to do so. In Poland, changes increasing retirement age were accompanied by trade union protests. The lack of social dialogue and the refusal to introduce a civil project to the Sejm of the previous term of office led to the break-up of the social dialogue in the Tripartite Commission. The question, therefore, is whether the lack of social dialogue and public consultation during the work on a law increasing the retirement age had an impact on the quality of the regulations adopted and on their sustainability? And another thing. One of the solutions used in the pension reform of the previous term of the Sejm, which was introduced by the coalition of PO and PSL, was so-called. partial pension. How do you see it, Minister, introduced by a law increasing the retirement age of a partial pension institution, and are you in favour of maintaining it or eliminating it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u174	Thank you very much, Member. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! However, I must start by saying that Mrs Mazurek is lying. Mrs. Member! The public consultation on raising the retirement age was one of the longest in the history of the Third Republic. [[What are you talking about, Member? Personally, I was at a demonstration.]] The fact that the PiS has made a manifestation is obvious, Mr. President, because this is why you wanted to win the election. [[Don't lie to me.]] The raises for ministers, the president, even his wife, depend on Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Don't change the subject.]] Will they even be what their height will be - it is decided by Jarosław Kaczyński. Why? Because the platform left you in great shape public finances. [[Applause]] [[We saw it.]] You know this very well, and that's why you planned for the raises. You know perfectly well that the Civic Platform is very economical... [[About.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...and rationally managed the money of the Polish taxpayer. You guys are doing political corruption because you buy some voters with other people's money. [[Political cannibalism.]] You've been doing this for seven months, or even longer, because you did it in the election campaign. Unfortunately, future pensions of Poles do not depend on Jarosław Kaczyński. The future pensions of Poles depend on the state of public finances. And what does that depend on? From how many of us are going to work. The more Poles work, the better the condition of public finances. It's always been like this. The current GDP must be divided into working and pensioners regardless of who rules. You can't curse reality and give people false hope because you're just cheating people. The Civic Platform was the only party that had the courage to tell Poles bitter, but the only truth: the longer you work, the higher you pay the contribution, the higher your pension will be. [[To the death.]] All the rest are empty promises of Law and Justice and other populists. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u176	Thank you very much, Member. I have to be very strict about time, because we have to fit in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u177	Moreover, pensions of Poles will be the higher, the shorter will be ruled by Jarosław Kaczyński... [[Everyone wants to speak. It's over time.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u178	Member of the Commission, on the basis of the corrigendum. She was mentioned by name. You're welcome. [[The exchange isn't the reason.]] It is to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u179	Mrs. Member! If I'm a liar, what can I say about the Civic Platform? You guys are mega-crashers. [[Applause]] Before the election campaign, you said you weren't gonna mess with the retirement age, that there wasn't gonna be any reform, and the first thing you did was that you raised... [[Voice from the hall: What are you saying?]] ...the retirement age and forced the workers to work, even though they didn't want this pension reform. [[Madame, you do not know the reality.]] And finally leave Jarosław Kaczyński alone. Learn from this man decency, integrity, integrity, knowledge. [[Touchdown, applause]] You guys really don't grow up. Neither intellectually nor morally.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is indeed pure demagoguey, and I can honestly say that we cannot even comment on what we have just heard. For one person aged 65 plus at the moment 4.2 persons aged 20 to 64 years. In 2030, there will be 2.6. , and in the year 2060-1,5 persons. How do you plan to carry out this reform? You're deceiving the public without telling anyone the consequences of this. You say that the Platform has introduced an increase in the retirement age without consultation. Do you guys have any consultations? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Since January.]] Why do you force people to live for 800 zlotys, why do you force people... [[You have to listen and understand.]] Now I'm talking, if you go out on the stand, you're gonna talk, now I'm talking. [[Applause]] Now I'm talking. Clap your head harder if you think that's the right thing to do. [[Member speaks with the microphone off]] You're not making any arguments, and what the Minister has presented is, I'm sorry, wrapping things up. There's no dunk in there, it's just talking for the talking. [[You didn't even listen to what the Minister said.]] You force people to live at 65 for 800 zlotys a month. It's just sick what you're doing. [[No one's forcing anyone to do anything.]] I am also surprised, Madam President, that you do not defend women who lose 42%. Retirement age salaries. How can you even act in favour of a situation where women are most burdened with your changes? [[Voice from the room: Hurt.]] [[Women have a choice.]] [[Voice from the room: What choice?]] You don't have money for 500+, you want to do this right now: we're fulfilling our electoral promises, so we're reducing the retirement age, and it's best to bring it in 2020, so that we can do that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They paid the successors, not you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u182	Thank you, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the club of the Polish People's Party will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wouldn't care so much about this demagogue because it can change a hundred more times. One night is enough and everything can be ruined, such experiences we already have for six months, so there's nothing to rip off. I think the PiS will come to mind. I have another question. Is there even any idea of how social security will work in Poland? Is there a concept? Today, it is a total break-up, we are standing over such a gap, because we are getting conflicting information about the future of insured people, about the amount of benefits. How many of these funds will be, whether there will be a second pillar or a second pillar will be a third pillar, there is a total information mess, information changes every few days. Another question. Why do you want to raise the retirement age for farmers after 2017? You promised farmers that they would be treated on an equal footing, that they would have equal rights, while government information shows that the retirement age for farmers will be raised in relation to what is in force today. It's a total surprise to me. When are farm pensions going up? Most, 99%. , agricultural pensions are at the level of 800 PLN. Here too were certain declarations from you, so far there is no information, and these advantages, which are, 2- or 5-gold, this is a funny thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, an independent Member, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u185	Thank you very much, Marshal. I literally wanted to refer to Mr Kasprzak's words, because I think this is the essence of the discussion that we have the chance to have for the first time in Parliament, and at the request of the opposition, because no logical pension security system from the media information that comes in, whether from government meetings or from consultations that are conducted not only in the NPRM, but also, as I guess, at the headquarters of the party's headquarters on the street. Nowogrodzka, in some way including the Presidential Palace and the proposal you made to President Andrzej Duda... They look unprofessional, unthinkable, and even create an impression of some political push between a large and small palace, using the nomenclature from the time when the SLD ruled in Poland. Therefore, my three questions are as follows: Are there already clear and precise calculations that we could read in the press about, that a change in the rules for reducing the retirement age without introducing any internship element will be more expensive by 2/3 and is there a financial security in the state budget for implementing such a programme? Second question. Is it true that 800 zlotys will be lower pensions for people who retire at the age of 60 and 65? So this is the withdrawal of the pension reform, which was once proposed. Finally, the third question. Do you know anything, and do we have a chance as parliamentarians, and through this debate Poles, to find out what this idea of deputy prime minister Morawiecki is like a jump to the second part of OFE, which is the savings of Poles who decided to stay in the OFE system, were placed in shares of Polish companies? Does anyone know what this is supposed to look like and what the financial security will be for future pensioners resulting from this mess? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice now have a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First to Mr Meysztowicz. [[The Lord is to present his question, not to refer.]] Roman Philosopher Cicero used to say: The human property is to err, stupid to persist in error. [[Applause]] Take a look at this Latin sentiment and try to adapt to it. [[Now is the time to speak, not the review.]] Because either you don't read with an understanding of the draft presidential law, it's clearly written: there's a choice, any choice of every potential pensioner. We don't impose anything. There were allegations here by Mrs Po and Mr Meysztowicz on the dialogue. There was no dialogue, ladies and gentlemen. Two and a half weeks you've been proceding a bill outside of social dialogue. [[But what are you saying?]] You brought trade unions to the streets, it was your success, because social dialogue collapsed in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Please check, read with understanding.]] This is your success with this retirement right here. That's one thing. Secondly, the President presented the bill in December. From January to July, 7 months, we are talking to the nation, with citizens, with trade unions, there is dialogue and public consultation. [[You've been talking all through the election.]] Where were you in January? Is it in the column room? You should have come and made your remarks. No one's ever defended you. [[Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: I was!]] Finance. You turned 153 billion off the OFE and put it in the ZUS. The miracle of nature. If you hadn't done it, you'd have left behind... Augias' stable is a Wilanowski palace. Minister, question. Poland is a state of law and a signatory of many international conventions governing the social status of citizens. Therefore, I have a question: What restrictions in terms of retirement age result from binding international agreements in Poland? These are in particular those resulting from Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation concerning minimum social security standards adopted in Geneva on 28 June 1952. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u188	Ms Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this debate and from the project it appears that Poles will have a choice, i.e. They will be able to retire early, and the choice will be: I retire early and get a starving pension. It's a super-choice, except those people who were expecting you to change the pension bill didn't count on that choice. They were hoping for something completely different, and that's what your deception and lies are about. [[But we're talking about the rules of calculation.]] If you're talking about everyone having a choice... Yes, we've already heard from the government: you'll get a very small pension if you use our bill. Put it on the third pillar. Everyone has a choice, and everyone is responsible, and they have to leave them alone, out of their own pockets, because the state isn't gonna give you anything. And this is where I want to refer to what was already mentioned in this room. Women. Today it is known that every woman has a lower pension because she has a shorter premium period for different reasons. In order to counteract this, there are among others. this paid maternity leave as a contribution period, there are changes regarding parental leave, so that women have a premium period. And today you propose to women that they have pensions as if someone gave them welfare benefits, not retirement for years of work and raising children. That's all, ladies and gentlemen, that doesn't add up. You're not gonna blindfold anyone, you're not gonna black out reality. Everyone knows that in 10 years' time, the labour market will be 9%. Less people employed and this space in the ZUS need to be filled in cash. Today's messages from the Minister, I must say, do not brighten anything, but they blur everything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u191	You're not gonna let me finish, are you, Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u192	I have to follow the timeline, because we have to fit in in time. You're gonna cut...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u193	You must obey, but if you allow me to finish your sentence, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u194	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u195	This is not a good model for conducting the proceedings. [[Get ready, not tyranny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u196	You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u197	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that Western Europe is withdrawing from extensive social programmes because of its responsibilities and what awaits us in the future when it comes to an ageing society in Europe. Yesterday, the French government extended the working time of a week, a day, just fighting... [[How many hours?]] ...in spite of social protests. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't bother me, sir, since the marshal is watching his time. [[Well, if you give me the source, at least honestly.]] Governance is not about sowing populism, governance is about responsibility not only for those, but also for future generations. According to the Sejm Analysis Office's calculations, the reform you now want to implement will cost almost 1.5 trillion by 2060. So is putting the state budget - these are the calculations of the Sejm Analysis Office - on such an expensive project a responsible governance? The Minister told us today what you will finance: from subsidies from the state budget, from loans and bank loans, from the Social Security Office. Today we talked about this in the context of the budget and yesterday, during the debate on the budget last year. The U.S.S. is unable to repay these loans. It's just avoiding the deficit. And yes, Minister, you're gonna book the deficit, you're gonna skip the deficit, and there's gonna be a hole in the ZUS. You told the minister you'd take it from the demographic reserve and the OFE. The OFE funds were to go to a reduction in public debt, not to the fulfilment of your electoral promises. I also heard that according to your plan, it was intended to stimulate investment in Poland and support plans of this type, not the implementation of your reform on the reduction of retirement age. You're saying you're gonna finance this from sealing the tax system. You have to have the money first, Minister. You guys from the seal want to finance 500+, the retirement age reduction, [[♪ The bell ♪]] higher amount of free money, increases for government personnel. Well, ladies and gentlemen, how much of this... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] [[You have to add the apartment+.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u198	Thank you, Member. Mrs Urszula Ruseck, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor now. You're welcome. [[We can do this!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u199	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Strangely enough, I agree with my predecessor: governance is not the sowing of populism. On the other hand, your group, the previous ruling team, had a great PR training. This is what the governments of the predecessors looked like. [[But how?]] And what was a prescription for a good pension system was an ad hoc action, that is, raising the retirement age. [[It's called responsibility.]] [[Exactly.]] Then I have a question, Minister... [[Please don't disturb me.]] ... whether work is being done in the Ministry in terms of important and necessary system solutions, comprehensive, which will lead to the creation of an adequate pension system that will ensure the security of the pension society and restore the confidence of our citizens in the pension system. I think it is a responsible governance and leaning over a comprehensive pension system solution, not just raising the retirement age, as the previous governing team did, and taking funds from the OFE. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's called responsibility.]] It's called a good change.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u200	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Retirement policy is a long-sighted policy. The change in the pension system will have consequences in the future and then the state budget will be at its limit. The Sejm Analysis Office states that the reform reducing the retirement age by 2025 will cost 140 billion PLN by 2035 - 381 billion PLN. I'm meeting young people, 30-year-olds who start their career. Tell me how to explain their pensions. Because information is provided, analyses are carried out - a man born in 1982, which is today 34 years old, if he retires at the age of 65, will receive PLN 3009, but if he passes at the age of 67, he will have PLN 3610 pension, while with women it is much worse, because if a woman born in the same year 1982 will retire at the age of 60, she will be 1764 but if she retires at the age of 67, she will have 3404 or twice that. [[Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko: As long as he lives.]] Well, I can't imagine it could be... [[I.V.'s.]] Women live longer and longer. 60 years old, 67 years old, do you think this is the age? In that case, I wish, first of all, a lot of health for us to live to see, or at least those 30-year-olds today, and to see what it will look like in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u202	Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's information here that in order to finance higher retirement expenses... The Minister shall exchange a catalogue of available means. But we must be honest with Poles - money will not print. Unless that's your plan and you want to do it, say it too. If we don't have money or resources in the state budget, then we're gonna have to raise somebody's taxes. And now my question is fundamental: Who will pay for the reduction in the retirement age, and on whom will you impose these taxes? Because it's just a mechanism, and I want it to be clear. I also have a question about whether you are aware that more than 20% of pensioners retire or receive benefits on some special basis, i.e. Uniform services, teachers, miners, farmers. KRUS pensions are only 10% financed by contributions from insured farmers and 90% by taxes from other citizens. Has the government considered these retirement privileges? Is there any way he's gonna try to reform this so he can somehow patch this hole in the budget? Although for me, it's actually impossible to do. And I'm wondering... Finally, one more important question. The Council of Ministers, in its opinion on the presidential bill, recommended such a solution, which is intended to eliminate the possibility of combining labour and pension collection. In Polish it means that you don't allow pensioners to make extra money. We're reducing retirement age, we're reducing retirement rates, we're not making any extra money. So what? Will the PiS government have benefits for extremely poor pensioners who will fall into extreme poverty and live in poverty? That's my question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u204	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u205	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! When the Civic Platform with PSL again took power in Poland in 2011, it immediately began to increase the retirement age. Poles noticed it, even though you did it quickly, very quickly, Poles noticed it. And most of the time, what I heard, the Poles said: You tricked us... [[That's not true.]] ...the Polish state has deceived us. When we entered the social security system, the retirement age was different. Right now, we're paying contributions, and we don't know if we're gonna make it to retirement age. [[Nobody knows.]] And as they said about you cheating, they didn't hide at all that if you cheated on us, we would also cheat you and run away from paying contributions. And who can, then, is running away from paying social security contributions, because the most common justification is this: After all, I will not live to see my pension. [[Look at the average age.]] Having regard to the proposal from the just because of the functioning of social security resulting from this, I ask the Minister to answer: During the period of operation of this new law, which raised the retirement age, are there any positive elements for the Social Insurance Fund, for the finances, for the financial condition of the Social Insurance Fund, for the state of public finances, and were those assumptions which were the result of the law true, and was this justification true, or the condition of the Social Insurance Fund improved? But I would also like to refer to the amount of pensions and I wanted to ask the Minister: When was the method of calculating pensions established and if it is not so that in recent years it has entered 100% a new pension calculation and today, in order for these pensions to be decent, it would really be necessary to accept the retirement age of 100 years, and who would live to be 100 years old would have a fair pension? And is that joke I've heard a lot about going on a trip under the Seym and hearing: 100 years, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 100 years, 100 years... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u206	Thank you, Member. [[They sang to me, too, a hundred years!]] Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u207	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to remind you from the PiS that the matter of the project we are talking about today is very sensitive and applies to all Poles. It must therefore include solutions that will not only determine the fulfilment of the promises made, but also very responsible, difficult and unpopular decisions made. I want to tell you that we had such courage. However, I very much hope that the work on this bill will not take place at night... [[Just like you guys.]] ...and they will have responsibility, not party business and popularity polls. I would like to remind you that this problem does not concern a chosen period, but requires systematic, long-term solutions to serve the citizens of our country. Therefore, following an analysis of the project presented, I have many doubts, such as: Why do you refer only to 2019 in the explanatory memorandum, showing the costs to be incurred by the state budget during this period? Do you not have further analyses and forecasts made, or are they so shocking and negative not only for the state budget, but also for current and future pensioners that you are afraid to put it on paper? The Crown's argument for the amendment of the 2012 Act is that it is possible to choose the time of termination of employment. I didn't notice, ladies and gentlemen, in the records of the mechanism that would guarantee it. So are you not concerned that the decision to retire will not be an employee's decision, but rather an employer who, for economic reasons, pushes out an employee who will comply with the requirements of the Act, with very low pension provision? In view of such situations [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u208	Thank you. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u209	...you should make sure that such mechanisms are there. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u210	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Research shows that we live longer and longer. In 2013, 65-year-olds were given an average of 15.4 years of age for men and 19.6 years for women. In 2030 these figures will be 17.7 for men and 21.7 for women, and in 2060 for men and 24.9 for women; on average, death at 86 years of age - male and almost 90 years of age - female. Since the expected life expectancy affects the amount of the pension, I ask whether the government intends to build into the pension system a mechanism allowing it to receive decent benefits for an ever longer period of retirement, because, according to our knowledge, the only way to do so is to extend the payout period, which is to increase the retirement age. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u212	Thank you. Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, Club Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u213	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Listening to this discussion, I'm not surprised that you ladies are so frustrated in defending this bill... [[No, no... with what frustration? What are you talking about?]] ...a bad bill that ordered Polish citizens to work until they were 67 years old. There is a good change, a change that will allow men and women to choose whether to work until they are 67 years old or until they die or less. He's giving us a choice. If you ladies want, you can work until you die, but what law was ordered in the previous law, e.g. Nurses to work at night at 67 in the emergency rooms... [[But that's not true! There's nothing like that in there!]] ...in the newborn wards? What right? This bill gives them a choice. They can get a pension early. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposals contained in the presidential retirement age reduction project meet the case law of the Constitutional Court and the European Commission, which indicated in the Green Paper that the period of retirement should correspond to approximately 1/3 of the life expectancy. Let me remind you that in our country this is 73.8 for men, and for women 81.6, or 1/3 of the values given for men are related to the age of 50 years, and for women 54 years old. Does the Minister therefore confirm that the limits in the regulation proposed by your President are much higher and are respectively 60 years for women and 65 years for men? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u214	Thank you. [[Make it shorter.]] The floor will be taken by Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a Member, a woman, President of the Parliamentary Women's Group, I would like to speak in the interest of it is women, Polish women, because the reversal of pension reform by reducing the retirement age and returning to the situation that existed before 1 January 2013 is a return to the difference in the retirement age of women and men, which will lead to women's pensions being starving. This will also lead to further discrimination against women in the labour market. And I have a question here. to Members of the Law and Justice: To whom and what is this good change to do? Because I would like to stress very clearly that the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, by introducing a reform of the pension system, enabled early retirement and partial retirement benefits, which means that any woman whose health situation, family situation, does not allow to work anymore, and has a certain period of employment, can retire partially. PiS politicians in the debates claim that it is a mistake that the Constitutional Tribunal questioned this solution. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Court merely said that it is non-constitutional to vary the age at which men and women may retire in part, because in the system of defined contributions, early retirement is unfavourable, and the Constitutional Tribunal knows that. Too bad they don't know it and Mr Duda, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, doesn't remember it. That's too bad. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...because you should know that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u216	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u217	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What we hear in this debate is indeed the heights of hypocrisy. The State of Law and Justice raises - among others. Of course - that taxes, including ZUS contributions, are too high, people do not want to pay. But unfortunately, what you are proposing is a reduction in the retirement age will certainly lead to a situation where these taxes will have to increase. Unfortunately, this action will create such a gigantic budget hole that we will not be able to deal with it in any way, and unfortunately, it will be a long-term action. So I'm shocked. And while on the other hand I can understand these populist tones from politicians and benches of Law and Justice, I absolutely cannot understand this from government benches. Really, Mr. Minister, who says such things here, that he doesn't care about the state of public finances at all, that he doesn't understand the long-term effects of this type of legislation, the reduction of retirement age... Really, ladies and gentlemen, fear to be afraid, and you don't really know what to do about it. It would seem, however, that in ministerial benches there should be people who have such a healthy view, a factual view and do not succumb to this populist hysteria, and are trying to care for public finances. Unfortunately, I have doubts that this is the case. Minister, a specific question. Today, more than four people of working age fall on one person aged 65+. In 2030 it will be just over 2.5, and in 2060 - about 1.5 people. Has the government prepared forecasts of the amount of pension contributions and taxes necessary for the payment of ZUS benefits to future pensioners? And second question. Lowering the retirement age will result in a decrease in future benefits of around 17% in the case of men and up to about 40% for women. For... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...people who retire in 2030... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Please leave the podium. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Club of Law and Justice, speaks. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u219	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government's 500+ programme is a revolutionary programme, one of the tasks of which is to increase fertility. Only the effective pro-family policy that the government has proposed can produce the right results. An extension of professional activity is certainly not in the interest of this. Extending the period of professional activity deprives young parents of help in the care of children from an older generation, and we know how important it is in Polish realities. [[Fifty-year-olds should retire.]] The care of grandparents over grandchildren is one of the most important values in raising and shaping attitudes of the young generation. In addition to this aspect, reducing the retirement age will have a positive impact on the situation on the Polish labour market, as it will reduce the impact of entering the labour market of people leaving education in the coming years and reduce high unemployment among young people. [[It is the economy that can do, not the artificial reduction of the retirement age.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please... Raising retirement age, PO and PSL politicians argued their decision on the demographic situation. Therefore, I have a question: Can the process of aging Polish society, the demographic situation of Poland, which has been the consequence of the decline in children since the turn of the 1980s and 1990s, and the simultaneous extension of the lives of Polish residents, be considered as the main arguments justifying an increase in the retirement age? [[They can.]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u220	Thank you very much, Member. Krystyna Skowrońska, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u221	Ladies and gentlemen! We've had a vision that it's beautiful, fantastic. Why did the state pay 50 gr's pensions, a zloty, 2 zlotys, what are today's pensioners complaining about? If there's money in this fund, you should have given at least 30 zlotys, just like the Platform gave, and it cost 1800 million. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] You're showing such a... [[Hypocritical.]] ...the perspective: a short-working young grandpa goes to take care of children or a young grandmother. My previous speaker said early retirement, low retirement. You are not solving any problem with this project. And there's a difference, and today the government hasn't told us, since these are calculations... We have a difference between the analysis of the Sejm Analysis Office and government expertise. Here you go, paperwork on the table. We would like to know whether this is actually 15 billion, 20 billion PLN or 1.5 trillion PLN by 2060. Today they write the media, Minister Shamacha has a different opinion. He wants to differentiate, he wants to change with the presidential project. Finally, let the government decide whether it wants to heal the economy, because recently, the state was screaming very strongly about the poor financial condition. You do not fund Poles higher pensions, you are illusory about what the President and Prime Minister Szydło promised, and you say: Poles, you can have small pensions. It doesn't interest us, you may have a choice. If you want to work, work long. So you're only trying to solve a problem effectively, not effectively. We don't agree to that. We're for serious discussion... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...for serious work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[...in cemeteries and gas stations...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u222	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Don't insult me! Mr. Marshal, don't insinuate me like that!]] [[He insults me all the time.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[But you can't insult people.]] [[Sir, in the cemetery, I honor the memory of my parents and don't insult me.]] Please, Madame, do not make a fuss in the courtroom. You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But you mustn't insult me!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that he does not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u224	Mr. Marshal! I'd like you to reprimand... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u225	You don't have a voice right now. Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u226	...my dead parents...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u227	I didn't give you the floor. Please leave the stand. I call you to order, please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u228	...you can't imputate me, insinuate me, that's rude. [[Touchdown, applause]] You're welcome, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Then don't say it.]] [[We're learning from you, we're still far from you.]] [[Mrs Mazurek, you can't beat anything...]] [[Mrs Skowrońska, really, I still have a lot to learn from you to...]] [[No, Mr. Marshal, really. We're not at the market. We're in the Seym.]] [[What kind of discussion is this, marshal?]] Madame, please don't interrupt. I ask the Member to speak. You're taking time off from your colleagues who are at the end of the list. [[Shall we?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A specific question and I'll ask for a specific answer. Ofe is a dozen competing funds. None of them had a decisive influence on the management of companies. But the Polish Development Fund will have more than 30 votes in dozens of companies. What is the guarantee that it will not be politically managed, for example? to invest in State Treasury companies or to enable politicians to influence the management of private listed companies, including media companies? I'm gonna ask you to answer that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u230	Thank you. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u231	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current retirement age has been introduced in an overbearing manner. The intention of increasing the retirement age of that ruling party did not present the public before the elections. Maybe a little reminder: Prime Minister Donald Tusk in his exposé of 18 November 2011 announced an increase and equalisation of the retirement age for both sexes in all pension systems. The revision of the Pension Act was very rapid. On 30 March 2012, the Sejm rejected the request for a referendum. [[That's a year later.]] Can you be quiet? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] On 20 April 2012, the government sent a draft law to the Sejm and already on 11 May 2012 the law was passed. The opponents of the retirement age reduction are now saying that, as a result of the changes that will reduce the retirement age, we will see numerous redundancies, especially in the group of people of pre-retirement age. I therefore have a question, Minister, how the proposed changes in terms of reducing the retirement age will have an impact on the special protection of workers of pre-retirement age. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u232	Thank you. Ms Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u233	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Actually, it's all been said. All that's left is to tell us that you're managing fear in an unbelievable way. On this podium for half an hour, we've been hearing for 40 minutes that retirees won't live to retire. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a look at the life-long statistics. That's a lie. Is the length of life in Poland 67 years? You keep saying that retired people won't live to see their pensions. You're telling people lies. You're also telling people, telling people they're not gonna live to see them, not to mention that with your shift, it's gonna be a lower pension that affects women the most. This will be a smaller pension than the one expected in this system that we have introduced, for men by 20% and for women by 70%. You still do not explain that people who are about to have pensions will not have to wait 67 years that women who will be working until 67 years of age will only be in force in 2040. State calculations are absolutely manipulated. Some 2023, when we spend 100 million on it, is not clearly shown. In 2060 this is repeated again, in 2060 the state budget will need PLN 1.5 trillion. It's really managing the wrong and managing the fear. Don't scare the Poles that they won't live to see their pensions. They'll live to see. And they will have it worthy of you if you do not make your crushing improvement. [[Applause]] [[39% of men will not live to see their pension at 67 years of age.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u234	Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! You often use such an argument in your rhetoric that this age to which you want to reduce your retirement age, 60 and 65, is an age where no one is forced to retire because everyone has a choice, they can work longer. On the other hand, I wanted to draw attention to whether there are any studies on how many people retire at exactly the age at which they acquire pension rights, and as a result. Most often this is not due to their goodwill, but it is due to the fact that if they acquire pension rights, they are usually disposed of by their employer in the world. We have an employer's market right now, not an employee. A worker at the age of 60 is often a little less efficient, sometimes more expensive, because he is a servant of the age, has various allowances that result from his age. [[And when he's sick.]] Sometimes he gets sick more often. Therefore, a situation in which we lower our age to 60 years can mean that he is forced to retire at the age of 60. The best example: we will have education reform in a moment. This education reform, really, means the elimination of middle school. We're gonna have plenty of women working as teachers who, first of all, if they turn 60, will be retiring. Today, those women who retire are, in the light of the provisions of the previous Act 61 with something, 61 years and a few months. This means that before reaching this age they are protected by law for 4 years, they are in a protective period. If we introduce this law, it will mean that a woman who is 60 years old will immediately be deprived of this protective umbrella, which is those 4 years of protection against retirement age. What will you say to those women who have so far been able to work up to 61 years and several months, and in future years up to 62 years and subsequent months? How are they supposed to keep their jobs if the State deprives them of this protective umbrella, which is 4 years of protection against the acquisition of pension rights? It's gonna mean to them really... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u236	Thank you, Member. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice now have a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've heard a lot of people say from that podium that we work at night. Thousands of people in Poland work every night in very responsible positions, saving lives. So let us have respect for them and for ourselves. I don't think it's right to repeat that argument all the time. We are the same people as others, so we can work for Poland if we have important matters, and the important thing is the retirement age. I have a question for the Minister: Is the labour market and the public health system in Poland prepared to extend their working life? I think our predecessors treated these eight years as vacations since making important decisions, they were just busy... [[How can you say such things, Member. These are slanders.]] ...self and certain arrangements. We're making changes. We make a good change for Poland, which the Poles want, and they expressed it during the elections in autumn. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious and make serious repairs to Poland. Let's fix what's been broken for eight years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u238	Thank you very much. The speaker now has a voice... [[A voice from the hall: Come on, lady, be serious.]] ... Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The recent months have clearly shown that Law and Justice, in ruling, rejected the substantive knowledge and logic of thinking for the polls. Perhaps there would be nothing wrong with this if these polls were conducted against all Poles, and not only on the citizens of the first sort, who are the current electorate of the rulers. This is best demonstrated by the recent days and public indignation against the highest officials of the increase. Today we are witnessing how as a result of the polls the PiS is pulling out of its idea, neatly like a giant container ship in a tiny port. Unfortunately, the unlimited belief in surveys and the divine power of the sovereign, i.e. the trust in about one in six Poles, make the ruling party not based on economic regulations, including pensions. Is the fact that the amendment discussed in this item will increase the expenditure of the state budget by PLN 4.5 billion in 2016, by PLN 8.1 billion in 2017, and by 2020. - by at least 13 billion PLN, remains irrelevant? The figures quoted were estimated by the Minister of Finance himself, who seems to be the only reasonable person in the PiS government. In retrospect, it can therefore be said that it is a good thing that the guardian of public finances has become a person who has never sought an election mandate. For this visionary decision, I cordially and sincerely thank you. Currently, 16 million citizens work in Poland and 9 million receive pensions. The effects of the amendment will result in a single pensioner in the following years. It is therefore not difficult to imagine the amount of the average pension benefit that the Social Security Office will passionately inform us about. I regret very much that the unreasonable, hasty and irresponsible decisions of the PiS, ruining the Polish dream of a prosperous Republic, are possible thanks to prudent, thoughtful and responsible previous governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] If it wasn't for our eight years of government, you couldn't afford 500+.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u240	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, now has a voice. [[Accommodation+.]] [[There isn't, and there won't be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Too frequent changes in the social security system, especially those caused by some political problems and electoral promises, contribute to a sense of instability, uncertainty of the future. No one knows what our pension is going to be. That's why I wanted to ask the Minister. If a woman at the age of 24 finishes her studies, goes to work, on average in her life will earn 3500 PLN gross and she will have to retire at the age of 60, then how much will this pension be, Minister, be? The pension scheme was amended in 2013. This also involved changes in the social security IT system. I would like to ask how much it will cost to make further changes, how long it will take and what costs the Social Security Office will incur due to the change in the pension system. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u242	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mark Polak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u243	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! In my speech, I would like to thank the President for taking this widely awaited initiative to reduce the retirement age, and also... [[Lubu-dubu...]] ...to the government of the Republic of Poland for supporting this initiative and leaning over it. I assure all the opponents that these solutions are expected today by a multitude of people who, in their youthful years, have stood at their workshops already at the age of a dozen years, and who are often burdened with life, often in difficult conditions, are still there to this day, day by day, having already worked 40 and more years. I know that the economic bill is not always consistent with these actions, but how can we talk about prosperous pensions if many people do not live or enjoy this benefit for just a few years? Therefore, I have a short question to the Minister: Does the resort have data on how many people do not live to retirement age because we have different calculations, or how many die after the first 2, 3 or 5 years of retirement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u244	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! What is the reduction in the retirement age in the Law and Justice version? This is the mass making of Polish pensioners of the social assistance system. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you know there are 150,000 in Poland. pensioners who take the lowest pension, which is 882 PLN. Do you know how much the PiS government has proposed for this group of pensioners to be valued in March this year? 2 zł. Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing an amazing thing. That is, in February this year I asked Minister Rafalska how senior policy is to be implemented in Poland. What did Minister Rafalska say? She said to me from this speaker: Mr 500+ is a senior policy programme, because grandmothers and grandparents will not have to add to raising their grandchildren. This is, ladies and gentlemen, something outrageous, such non-subjective treatment of a group of Polish seniors, putting them into programs that concern children and their upbringing, and not treating them in an individual manner. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concrete calculations, and I would like the fantastic Polish people to know that. If we do not leave the current retirement age, the salary in 2040, specifically pension for pensioners in Poland will not amount to PLN 2700 in 2040, but will amount to 1.5 thousand, which will also cause Poles to receive pension [[♪ The bell ♪]] equal to 1/3 of the current salary. This is, as I said, turning Polish pensioners into mass clients of the social assistance system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u246	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. I invite Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u247	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is not art to be populist and hypocrite when the effects of what is being introduced are not felt here and now. After all, the reduction in the retirement age will not be felt here and now, it will be felt several years from now, or actually dozens of years from now. So today it's fun to say you'll be working less. But it would be fairer to say, and that is a question to the Minister, if I am right, that for example. Today's 30-year-old, a woman who gets $3,000 on her hand. zł, when she retires at the age of 67, according to the CUS, she will have 261 months of her life and her pension will amount to 2240 zł. But, ma'am, if we're gonna lower our retirement age now and you're gonna be able to retire at the age of 60, your life expectancy according to the CSO will be 201 months. So your pension will be, attention, 1431 zlotys, which is 36%. less. And that's honesty, and that's responsibility. Therefore, in the name of this responsibility, we were able to extend the retirement age, even though it cost us very much as a political party, but for us future generations of Poles were more important. After all, each of us has our children, grandchildren, a closer family, and I don't think any of us would want their pensions to be hungry, and they would be. So I would like to say responsibly today: yes, we are extending the retirement age because it is safe - for public finances, for the state budget, but above all you will not starve, although these pensions will not be high. Not much, you know that, that's why you want to extend your retirement age. [[♪ The bell ♪]] another way, to ban making money to those who retire. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u248	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the impression that all the time, ladies and gentlemen of the Civic Platform do not see one point, the main point, namely that the bill assumes voluntaryity. There are claims here that pensioners will be forced to retire and live for a starving retirement. Ladies and gentlemen, Poles are really smarter than you think. Those who are healthy, strong, energetic, who will be able to work, will certainly not want to retire. On the other hand, do not your offices report tired, sick, e.g. Murderers who say they can't... [[Rent's here.]] ...work and carry concrete blocks? [[That's what disability is for.]] These are the ones where retirement opportunities will be addressed a little earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question about the implementation of the law itself. The Social Insurance Institution, as the institution responsible for the proper implementation and maintenance of pension reform in the context of proposed changes reducing retirement age, needs time to adapt, for example, the programme to the service of future recipients. Does the draft law therefore provide for a period of vacathio legis for the implementation of the programme and the adaptation of the ZUS to the new regulations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u250	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice. If you do not have a Member, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Law and Justice has a pretty clever method. When a public consultation is needed, inter-ministerial arrangements, a parliamentary project suddenly appears. Why discuss it? Why check? When there is a case that is really important and it is necessary to clearly define the 10-year forecast for financing a pension reduction project, it is the Ministry that obscures itself: after all, this is a presidential project, then why is it at all? However, responsibility is and should be done, because please take into account that this law will decide the fate of Poles for the next decades. It cannot be said that due to the fact that this is a presidential project, we will not take care of it at all, and therefore enough is the forecast of 4-, 5-year-old, maximum 17-year-old from 2017. Second thing. Law and Justice very often, when it is beneficial, says: here we have done analysis of the Sejm Analysis Office, everything is fine. Okay, well, then we're gonna read the analysis of the Sejm Analysis Office that analyzed this bill. I quote, there are two opinions: Given the principle that the pension dimension depends on two basic parameters: the sum of the contributions collected in the insured account, possibly supplemented by initial capital, and the average life expectancy, the reduction in the retirement age will have a significant impact on the amount of the monthly pension, as it will, on the one hand, reduce the amount of contributions collected, on the other hand, increase the life expectancy. Second quote: The elimination of early retirement and the process of raising the retirement age on a macro-level basis have produced positive effects in 2009 and 2014 in the form of an increase in the actual retirement age, in particular women, and an increase in the employment rate and employment rate of people aged 55 and 64 years. It was the Bureau of Sejm Analysis that prepared these analyses. I hope someone leans over them and doesn't throw them in the trash because they're actually based on really relevant data. As for your message that people will not live to retirement age, I agree, with such a low pension they will really die of starvation, I do not rule out such a situation. [[Applause]] You say these people are tired, they won't be able to and shouldn't continue to work, but on the other hand, you make them go home and take care of their children. It takes some effort, too. [[A little?]] Therefore, you do not assume that they should not work or earn, but that they should work and not earn. I can honestly say that this is quite an interesting approach to this issue. I also believe that if an employer has to choose an employee who has retired early at the age of 65, a man, or at the age of 60, a woman, and does not have to pay any contributions for them, he will hire such a person in black because she will be much cheaper. As a result, you are simply increasing the grey area of employment, and I will not be surprised that these people will indeed be attractive to many entrepreneurs who will employ such people. You're saying this is a matter of choice. I agree with my club friend, the situation is that if it is possible to fire a person because he can retire early, the employers will actually do their best to replace such a person with a younger person, much cheaper, due to lower burdens, difficulties, and very often because older people are more sick. In conclusion, I will say that there is one price that Polish society can pay for reducing the retirement age, there is only one price, namely that Jarosław Kaczyński should retire early. It's worth all the money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u252	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many questions have been asked, and I will try to address the main themes that emerged during the debate. The first question raised was whether funding for the reduction of the retirement age would be guaranteed. I think that the position of the Minister of Finance, which I presented to you at the beginning of today's debate, clearly responds positively to this question. This guarantee of financing in line with the position of the Minister of Finance is to take place by improving the collection of taxes... [[Sealing the system.]] ...or, you can say, increase VAT revenue to the state budget. Of course, the financial system or the Social Insurance Fund is already a fund that is supported by budget subsidies, not an unusual, extraordinary situation. This is in fact the case in all social security systems. There is no system that would be 100% funded by social security contributions, and our system, you can say, corresponds to these standards. Of course, we cannot look at the issue of increasing or reducing the retirement age and as if we were just focusing on it, because retirement age is one of the parameters of the social security system. It can be said that by deciding in 2012 to increase the retirement age, prescriptions were really sought to improve the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund by reducing the expenditure of this fund. On the other hand, the reserves of this system are also in the income of this fund. [[You're gonna raise your fee.]] I would like to say that the government's actions by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, which took place, aim to improve the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund in the area of income to the Social Insurance Fund. [[But what actions, Minister? Tell me.]] I would be happy to give examples of such actions. For example, the decision on the minimum remuneration to be applied from 2017 onwards. [[That doesn't change the facts.]] The issue which was decided yesterday in the Senate, i.e. the fixing of the hourly rate of minimum remuneration of contractors who are also subject to, I will remind you, compulsory pension and pension insurance, at the level of 13 PLN per hour. [[Is that why you raised your wages?]] These are actions that have already been taken. It can be said that these are not the only actions in this area. [[And Poles pay.]] As far as questions on pension benefits are concerned, I will simplify a little bit, but in general most of the questions were going in such a direction as to whether the pensions that will benefit after the retirement age are reduced will be starvation pensions. That's what I'd put it in a nutshell. [[Difference.]] So what I want to say is that we are already dealing with a big difference in the average pension benefit calculated according to the old formula, the formula of the defined benefit, and the amount of this benefit calculated according to the new formula, or formula of the defined contribution. Let me remind you that the retirement age in 2016 is about 61 years old for women, 66 years old for men. At this age this year, insurance is retiring. [[Because there's a recipe.]] As regards the amount of benefits that were paid in 2015, which were calculated according to the so-called. the old formula, i.e. the formula of the defined benefit, is to say that such pension amounted to PLN 3665.68 last year. As regards pensions calculated according to the new formula, i.e. the formula of the defined contribution, the amount of such pension, on average, was PLN 2044 in 2015. The difference in the amount of such pension or pension paid in 2015 is around PLN 1600. Of course, we can ask ourselves what is the consequence of this imbalance. I would like to point out that the Law reducing retirement age has not yet been adopted or entered into force, and there are so many disparities in pension benefits. [[But it's gonna get worse.]] This is, of course, the consequence of the decisions that were taken in 1998 and entered into force on 1 January 1999, i.e. after introducing a formula for a defined contribution that actually depends on three relevant parameters, i.e. from the amount of remuneration earned during the working life, and secondly, from the duration of the contribution period, to the third, from the moment when the insured person decides to retire. [[And that's what you want to ruin.]] I would like to say that in this mechanism of defined contributions, as I said, which has been in force since 1 January 1999, there are mechanisms or economic incentives to delay, postpone the moment of retirement. And here we are different when it comes to opponents and supporters of lower retirement age. The opponents of the retirement age reduction would like this decision to take this decision for the insured person to set the retirement age at such a high level that the insured person does not really have the possibility to decide on the moment of retirement. The presidential bill reducing retirement age assumes that this decision to retire will be left to the insured person himself. I would like to return to this thread on starvation pensions, this level of retirement. If I had one opinion to answer the question that has been raised many times today, whether the pensions that will be entitled after the retirement age are reduced will be starving pensions, I would say that they will be very different pensions. [[But what you're doing will lower it.]] We have different people in Poland. We have people who work long-term, we have people who earn high incomes and we also have people who will decide to postpone this moment of retirement so as to get a relatively high pension benefit. The difference in approach to this issue lies in the question of who is to make a decision. We want this decision to be taken by the insured themselves, based on various conditions regarding the amount of the benefit, the truth, the reasons for whether such a person still has the strength or the ability to continue his employment... [[Why not 50?]] ...with the grounds of whether or not the situation can be said to be such a person on the labour market, measured mainly by the prism of his qualifications, allows him to continue his employment or not, such as plans for his or her life after retirement age. We want this insured, based on different circumstances, to decide whether or not he wants to continue his employment. [[In theory, it sounds, but in theory.]] In this respect, one can say, the philosophy of the presidential draft law reducing retirement age [[♪ The bell ♪]] corresponds to the position of the government. Thank you very much. [[What's it like in practice?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u254	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[Even your own club didn't applaud you, Minister. But there's something about pensions.]] [[Your Marshal, formal motion.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u255	Thank you, Marshal. I would like to make a formal request for a 10 minute break, because it would be necessary to clarify to the Minister that it is not so that these people will make their own decisions and bear the financial consequences of their decisions. [[What are the mechanisms in this bill?]] Unfortunately, you know very well that the earlier, in particular women, they will benefit from this right, the lower their pensions will be, the greater the amount the State will have to pay. So it is not that they will take this decision as if at their own risk, only the consequences will be borne by the state budget, they will concern public finances, because they will have to pay for these embarrassingly low pensions. By doing what you're doing right now, on the one hand, you're so democrats that you give people a choice, but on the other hand, you just let these people into poverty. These people will receive poor pensions, they won't realize it. If economic knowledge were common knowledge in Poland, I assure you that people would not vote for the Law and Justice, which promises irresponsible movements, would not vote for 500+, because they would be perfectly aware that by taking matters into their own hands, when the state creates the right conditions for developing its interests, its business, and not smothering with new rules, people would earn much more than these 500+. On the other hand, the state has a populist policy, not worrying at all about the consequences that will apply to these people. Those who are retiring will receive it at a very low level, it will be a minimum pension. You know very well that the larger the group will retire earlier, especially women, the higher the budget subsidies will be. So that, Minister, I would appeal to you, however, for such mere human decency and direct communication that those pensions that these people will receive, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they're just going to be starving pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u256	Thank you, sir. I do not take into account this formal proposal and I will not announce a break. Thank you. The Committee on Public Finance has submitted a report on a government draft bill on the rules of settlement for goods and services tax and the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed from the budget of the European Union or from the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015 (Print No 531) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (Print No 737). I ask the first Supreme Court President, Mrs Margaret Gersdorf, to present the information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u257	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry about the tooling, but my throat is professionally ripped off, and I still have to... [[We're gonna help with that water, it's gonna be better, more comfortable.]] I already have mine, I brought it, thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Allow me to present to you a report on the activities of the Supreme Court for 2015. The Supreme Court is a special judicial authority appointed to exercise justice by ensuring the legality and uniformity of the case law of the general courts and of the military. Such judicial supervision shall be carried out through the recognition of cassation and other remedies, as well as the adoption of resolutions determining legal issues. It is also a matter of political functions of the Supreme Court to recognise electoral protests and to determine the validity of elections to the Sejm and Senate, as well as the election of the President, the validity of the national referendum and the constitutional referendum. I stress this this year, especially in 2015, because almost all these elections took place and they delayed the examination of cases by the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, because it is up to this House to deal with these issues. In addition, the Supreme Court gives its opinion on the draft laws and other normative acts on the basis of which the courts rule and function, but also on the laws for which the Supreme Court considers it appropriate. Each of these areas of activity of the Supreme Court poses different challenges and provides a separate perspective for assessing its activities. The primary task of the Supreme Court is to perform the judicial function. It's obvious. In this context, there was a slight increase in the number of cases in 2015, but it is not shockingly large. In total, 11 214 cases were brought to the Supreme Court. Cassation complaints and cassations prevaild - 7971, the most of which, because 3662, they were brought to the Civil Chamber - this is also the largest chamber of the Supreme Court - and to the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs - 2519 and also to the Criminal Chamber - 1778. To the Military Chamber, too, but only 12. A total of 173 legal issues, mostly in the Civil Chamber, have also been brought together and 1057 complaints have been received. The other cases consisted of appeals against military decisions of district courts, actions for annulment of final decisions, competition and consumer cases, actions for the length of proceedings, actions for reopening, requests for referral to another court, cases for pardon and incidental applications, as well as disciplinary actions. In this last group of cases, i.e. in the group of disciplinary matters, the Supreme Court ruled on disciplinary liability of judges - 82 cases, as well as other professional groups: lawyers, lawyers, notaries, prosecutors - only 76. Now, in addition to these figures after the committee, I would like to say that in matters concerning disciplinary matters, the judgment of first instance was maintained or amended in 31 cases, nine cases were repealed and re-examined and one was suspended. There were immunity cases and some other procedural matters. The interest of the ladies and gentlemen of the committee has aroused the penalties that have been imposed in disciplinary proceedings. So there was only one removal from the occupied position. There were nine reprimands, there were reprimands, a transfer to another office - five, a submission of a judge from office - one, as I said, and a suspension of the increase in salary for a period of 3 years - two. In total, 24 such punishments were imposed. The judge was found guilty and the penalty procedure was dismissed - there were five such cases, two of which were removed from the penalty. So it was a small matter. In total, the Supreme Court recognised 10 502 cases, 7554 actions, i.e. not all cases were identified, 1022 complaints and 154 legal issues. In the information provided to ladies and gentlemen, there is no assessment of the percentage of cassation complaints that have been accepted for consideration. I told the committee it was 30%. I've examined it in the meantime, and it's actually about 30%, i.e. There is 25% in the Civilian Chamber and 39.2 in the Civilian Chamber. In the Penalty Chamber, they're almost all going through it. Overall, these legal issues were very much because they are the most difficult. By moving to the organisation of the Supreme Court, in my first approach, I would like to say that when it comes to determining the positions of judges in the Supreme Court and the number of governors, the number of judges has been increased and the number of governors has not changed, because the organisation of the court has not changed. This figure was defined as 93 persons and the cast as at 31 December 2015 was only 84 persons. This is due to the fact that some judges have retired without prior notice, although this is not a large number, but also from the procedure of recruitment for the position of Supreme Court Judge. This is currently happening and we are waiting for the President to swear four judges. The Supreme Court used the assistance of nine judges sent by the Minister of Justice at the request of the first President of the Supreme Court to rule in the Civil Chamber - one person, in the Chamber of Work - one person, in the Criminal Chamber - seven persons. The Penalty Chamber is in a rather convenient situation here, as judges of the Military Chamber have also performed judicial duties throughout the year in the Penalty Chamber. As regards the composition of the Supreme Court judges, most of them are appointed from common courts, i.e. the culmination of the judicial career - 60 persons, as well as military courts - eight people. The scientific community - only 14 people, lawyers - only one person. He may wonder whether it's a matter of pay or not that lawyers don't come to the Supreme Court, in any case very prominent ones. The case-law of each Chamber concerned a very diverse and complex group of issues. This was mainly the result of significant regulatory instability of the system, numerous amendments and bad inter-temporal rules. The interpretation resolutions of the Supreme Court were therefore of particular importance. In addition to the harmonisation of the views expressed in them, the practice of law enforcement, lawyers and lawyers has also been shaped by the practice of law enforcement. In the final result, the resolution of the Supreme Court also translates into the stability of the law and, I hope, the deepening of citizens' confidence in the state. The increasing complexity and interdisciplinaryness of legal problems caused the Supreme Court to refer repeatedly to international law, European law, the case law of the ECHR and the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like, if your marshal would allow us, to move on to the issues raised in the various chambers. Very briefly. What I think is most important for you to know. The Civil Chamber is the largest chamber with very difficult, complex laws and problems. There is a clear advantage here in the broad-based process issue. This procedure is changing all the time. The degree of complexity is characteristic. The modern system of law often forces formations to include numerous references not only in civil law but also far beyond private law. I'm talking about administrative law. I would like to mention this example: resolutions of enlarged, 7-person warehouses, which dealt with compensation issues for Warsaw real estate. Here there were issues of the Code of Administrative Procedure with issues of the Civil Code, with liability and statute of limitations, and above all with the amendment of the article. 160 c.p.a. So it was pretty complicated. Such a time-cure was April 2011, from which these changes had to be counted. I do not want to dig into this more, but there is no doubt that this resolution marginalized some legislative shortcomings and stressed the point of view, facilitated the recovery of legitimate claims against citizens. [[But a resolution as a binding source of law?]] No. Seven judges... Resolutions of the Supreme Court, if they are applicable to the judiciary, must be enshrined in the legal principles. On the other hand, in this report, I will say that these legal principles are very few and rather only concern procedural issues, because the Supreme Court is of the opinion that the courts are independent and that the law is quite variable. Therefore, this legal principle may bind the courts even in a slightly changed legal state. These relations with administrative law are very large, which is precisely related to compensation related to the Decree on ownership and use of land in the area of m.st. Warsaw. There is an enlarged resolution III CZP 22/15 in which it was stated that the source of the damage was not the decision to sell the premises - it was the sale of the premises - but the defective application of the decree. And that's what all the limitations would be about. In the case law of the Civilian Chamber of the Supreme Court, the balance of constitutional values resulting from the Article is constantly supported for legal trading. Article 2 and Article 2 20 constitutions, i.e. the social market economy. These aspects concern Resolution III CZP 73/15, which concerns the so-called. shelves fees, i.e. other than the margin of benefits for the acceptance of goods for sale. The need to balance the interests of individuals and the social interest has been apparent for a number of years in the case law on the serviceability of the transmission and use of other people's land by energy companies. These are resolutions III CZP 88/15 and V CSK 5/15. The legislator, introducing this service institution a few years ago, abandoned the inter-temporal issues that I spoke about at the beginning, putting the Supreme Court before the need to fill legal gaps and take ad casum in individual exponential decisions. We believe that this is a flaw that we have to deal with. Within the framework of procedural law, statements on the property of the courts and local courts, which were very important in practice, must be regarded as extremely important. It was necessary to determine which court is competent in the cases in question. This is very important. Seven cassation cases identified in 2015 concerned compensation from an insurer to insured persons for the activities of insurance agents. The number of these cases, the repetition of the problems may indicate the weakness of the legislation on insurance mediation. There's an art out there. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 In the reporting year, the Supreme Court also referred questions for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice twice. This is the Civil Chamber. I'm going to the Penalty Chamber. In the case-law of the Supreme Court's Criminal Chamber, matters of substantive and procedural law were dominated. Other cases were related to EU law. In decisions issued outside the legislative procedure, inter-temporal issues and the interpretation of new criminal laws were more frequent, which will now be less important because the procedure is changing. The resolution of the full composition of the Supreme Court I KZP 21/14 was important in procedural matters. It takes the view that, in cassation proceedings - it is probably still valid - the repeal of the contested decision is only possible in the part in which it did not contain a decision on a criminal measure which was mandatory. In the end, the disputed and non-abbreviated interpretation problem concerning the scope of the ruling by the Court of Cassation was resolved in this way. A particularly important issue from the point of view of the defendant's procedural interests was the resolution of the Supreme Court I KZP 4/15, which stated that Article. 377 k.p.k. is a stand-alone basis for the hearing which was adjourned, still when the defendant, who had not given an explanation and had been informed of the earlier date of the hearing, was notified of the new time limit in any way provided for in the law and did not appear for the hearing. Among the procedural aspects of the resolution of the Criminal Chamber, which will still be important, it is worth noting the issue of the admissibility of polygraphs - polygraphs. As a result of the deliberations carried out, the Supreme Court concluded that it was unacceptable to use the polygraph - in any way - during the proceedings of the hearing. The resolution on the use of the polygraph will have meaning for other sections of the law, including labour law, where polygraphs are often used. A resolution on the running of games on slots was important in the activities of the Criminal Chamber, but the matter was not settled in substance, but was suspended until the European Union settled the case. Many of the resolutions of the Criminal Chamber concerned the provisions of the special section of the Criminal Code. The legal problem that is relevant to practice was resolved in the resolution of I KZP 5/15 on money laundering. It was found that the subject of a money laundering crime could be held in a bank account with cash up to an amount equal to the value of the property benefits affected by the enforcement operation. In turn, the resolution I KZP 7/15 states that the deliberate imprisonment of another person may be regarded as a crime against humanity, the criminality of which is not subject - I will remind - to the statute of limitations, even if it does not carry out the marks of the prohibited act referred to in Article. 118a § Point 2 k.k.a. Among the judgments issued outside the legislative procedure, i.e. outside the resolutions, special attention should be paid to the issues raised in connection with the entry into force of the two amendments to K.p.k., but I think that this will already be less important, I will not refer to it. On the other hand, from the perspective of the practice of law enforcement, it is important to have a judgment stating that the marks of a prohibited act referred to in Article. 302 also exhausts those who are insolvent, cannot satisfy all creditors, but is also punished if one creditor does not satisfy one. The Supreme Court also found - and this is very important practically - that the final decision of the court to maintain the order of the prosecutor to terminate the investigation in the in-rem phase is a judgment concluding the investigation, which opens the way to appeal against the court's order with an emergency cassation pursuant to Article. 521 §1 k.p.k. I'm moving on to the Chamber of Labour, Social Security and Public Affairs, which is closest to me, as I always say. The issue of social security, pensions and pensions prevaild here, and I hope, having listened to the debate on the new pension law, that inter-temporal issues would be very carefully identified. First of all, it is important to draw attention to the resolution of the enlarged composition of the judges, which was granted, by way of exception, the power of the legal principle. It stated that the right to be subject to social insurance by a member of the board of directors of a public limited liability company who entered into a management service contract with that company in the course of his own business is not that economic activity but that of a service contract. This has been the subject of the Chamber's ruling for years, but there have been different rulings, and this position has dominated it. The second issue, which is important for the practice of applying social security law, was the issue of farmers' social security issues. No individual instruction by the pension authority on the obligation under Article. 5a The Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, which is an obligation to submit a certificate on the amount of income tax on income from non-agricultural economic activities, i.e. the link between economic and agricultural activities, does not result in the repeal of the Article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 6 effects in the form of the cessation of social security for farmers. This is very important for farmers, they remain in this system, which is of course more convenient. With regard to labour law issues, it is worth paying attention to the decision III PZP 5/15, which concerned the reimbursement of travel expenses for delegated judges. The Supreme Court considered that the rate of 30 gr per km was sufficient, as requested by the legislator. It was very important to resolve doubts about the Group Exemption Act for an employer employing at least 20 employees and making statements changing as to whether the number of statements changing includes the number of persons released as a group exemption, which requires a specific procedure. The Supreme Court considered that it was necessary to ask the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling on the interpretation of the concept of collective exemption as to whether it was definitive or amending, and therefore ordered the General Court to do so at second instance. I would like to point out that I have already signalled that the presidential elections, parliamentary elections, national referendums and supplementary elections to the Senate have led to a significantly excessive involvement of the House in the public hearing, and that is why these arrears are greater than every other year in this Chamber, because these matters need to be resolved in a very timely manner. As far as the organizational activities of the Supreme Court are concerned, it is primarily the dissemination of information on the case law of the Supreme Court. We have a website, continued to publish under the new titles of the series "Studies and Supreme Court Analysis." Science materials, as well as studies and analysis of the Supreme Court. Review of the Court of First Instance. A collection of Supreme Court decisions was published - the Disciplinar Court. It was also important that the Supreme Court press officer, who monitored the media and, in the event of some confusion, ambiguity, responded very quickly to all these questions. As in previous years, the Supreme Court initiated numerous scientific conferences in 2015. There were very important conferences on appeal, cassation and renewal proceedings in the new model of the criminal trial. The European Public Prosecutor's Office has been an international scientific conference on relations between the European Public Prosecutor's Office and national authorities. In addition, the first Supreme Court President and judges participated in numerous conferences - maybe I won't be taking your time, exchanging all these conferences. Several delegations also attended the invitation of the first president with official visits. In connection with the parliamentary elections in the Supreme Court there was also a representative of the OSCE, who received a very thorough analysis of our electoral code and the situation. All this was happening in the organizational sphere as in previous years. I can therefore say that the conditions under which the Supreme Court operated during the reporting period, i.e. in 2015, were not substantially different from those in previous years. The objectives of the Supreme Court have not changed, there have been no more significant modifications in individual chambers, in the functioning of these chambers. There has been a greater impact of cases, but this is not a very large impact and it can generally be said that in civil chambers and work the expectation of a resolution is 10 months, in the Military Chamber - 2 months, in the Criminal Chamber it is 10 months, in total in these three it is 10 months. We believe that this is in line with European standards. There is generally no chronicity of proceedings in the Supreme Court. There is a large increase in the impact of legal issues, which of course requires increased intellectual activity also of the Office of Studies and Analysis, but I can generally say that the questions addressed to the Supreme Court are formulated better than in previous years, and this is very good news. They are generally valid. It is very rare to say that we refuse to answer. The practice of the Supreme Court has continued for many years in the justifications, in particular resolutions, but also provisions on legal issues, the assessment of the whole case law and the systematicisation of this case law, the development and evolution of case law has been accepted. This is useful for courts, as well as lawyers and lawyers. The state of law is not satisfactory, but in the High House I will no longer talk about it, because it is not very pleasant for you. Code of civil procedure e.g. it really lost its readability, it's not consistent, because it's constantly being updated and it's really hard to recognize. The issues concerning the state of the legislation have been presented by me in this little book of notes about the irregularities and gaps found in the law, which we formulate on the basis of the case law of the Supreme Court, not what I believe to be Margaret Gersdorf, but what results from the judgments. I would like to say that the results obtained, the substantive activity, the judicial activity of the Supreme Court should be assessed and it is positive by me. This also allows for an optimistic forecast of the future performance of tasks, especially as we have more administrative posts, which allows the Supreme Court to function better in administrative terms this year, 2016. Maintaining the efficiency of the Supreme Court is, of course, the personal merit of judges who ensure that citizens are given effective judicial protection. In a broader context, we must also not forget the activity of all the employees of the Supreme Court, the administrative staff, the service office, the reading room that we have created, and above all the members of the Bureau of Studies and Analysis and Assistants of Judges. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u258	Thank you very much, Chairman. I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights took note of information about the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015, and at its meeting on 19 July we were able to read this information, which was presented in print No 531. The first president of the Supreme Court, Professor Małgorzata Gersdorf, presented the information at the committee meeting. This information has also been taken into account in very detail - and Members have been able to read it - in writing, for which we thank you very much. In the committee itself, following the presentation by the first President, there was also an opportunity to discuss and ask questions. We thank you very much for the answers, especially those that have been made today in this speech, which has just been completed with the things we have asked for. So that for this completed information thank you very much. Your first President has presented the statistics in detail, but I will explain what I think is most important and what the committee believes should be emphasised once again. In 2015, there was a slight increase in the number of cases that had been brought to the Supreme Court, although, as we have seen in the report and as the first President has just said, this has not affected the organisational activities. In short, there were no delays and difficulties for this reason, and the court has dealt with this matter. A total of 11 214 cases were filed. The president also talked about it, the cassation complaints - 7971, of which 3662 were brought to the Civil Chamber, 2519 - to the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, 1778 - to the Criminal Chamber, 12 - to the Military Chamber. A total of 173 legal issues and 1057 complaints were raised. The other cases consisted of appeals against military decisions of district courts, actions for annulment of a final decision, competition and consumer cases, actions for the length of proceedings, actions for reopening, requests for referrals to another court, cases for pardon and incidental applications, as well as disciplinary actions. In these disciplinary matters, the Supreme Court has ruled 82 times on disciplinary liability of judges and other professional groups: lawyers, legal advisers, notaries, prosecutors and doctors. In total, he identified 10 502 cases, including 7554 cassation and cassation complaints, 1022 complaints and 154 legal issues. In fact, you can really get the impression, even at the committee meeting, that this is the part of the court's work that raises the most questions and emotions. But once again, thank you for all the answers, including those completed today. The case-law of each Supreme Court Chamber concerned a very diverse group of issues. Besides, your first president has also developed the subject, so I'm not going to repeat it. As she explained, this diverse group of issues, due to the regulatory instability of the system of law, numerous amendments, the emergence of completely new regulations. Therefore, there was a requirement. on the urgent interpretation of the court. As your first president pointed out, interpretation resolutions were of particular importance for this reason. In addition to harmonising their views, they not only shaped the practice of common courts but also had an important impact on the functioning of law enforcement agencies and the activities of lawyers and lawyers. Therefore, the resolution activity had a significant impact on ensuring legal certainty as well as, as the President has said, on enhancing citizens' confidence in the state. When we talk about the report, we also need to recall - although, as I am saying, just now, your President has discussed it in detail - the activities involved in organising conferences, symposiums, the activities of the Ombudsman, and also the organisation of the work of the court itself, which, as the President said, has not changed in principle in relation to the previous year, so it is satisfactory, so to say, for all parties. Therefore, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, on its behalf, recommends that the High House adopt information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u260	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof July, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the pleasure of sharing a few reflections in the context presented by the professor, the first President of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court, in 2015. By sharing these reflections, I will no longer touch on those issues that have been discussed in depth by the professor and the rapporteur of the committee. I would rather focus on those issues that touch, so to speak, the future, and what needs to be said about the future, is also related to the work of the Supreme Court so far. Today it is certainly difficult for the Republic to imagine the exercise of justice, in a full sense, without participation in this Supreme Court. This is because the Supreme Court, when supervising common courts, military courts, causes that the case law of universal courts, as well as military courts, becomes without a small degree of uniformity. Keeping an eye on this regularity is a thing. not to be overestimated, but we must also be aware that in Poland many people have a sense of injustice. These are people who, above all, cannot claim their rights before the courts for various reasons. Very often these are prosaic reasons - bad material condition, but also very often - first of all this is raised in situations when we meet voters in our parliamentary offices - it is that it does not make sense anyway. That's how the problem could be covered. But I think that we should also take care here, in the Polish Parliament, to contribute to making the justice system in Poland raise its level, so to speak. And I am convinced that the participation of the Supreme Court in this undertaking is very important. After listening to the information that the professor presented at the committee meeting, as well as today, after reading the written report, I would like to quote an important message that has been included in this report: I believe, Professor, that it is precisely what the professor said today about this information - and you are also legally obliged to prepare such information about comments, findings of irregularities and gaps in the law - that we should really also debate here today, regardless of the fact that these words, these certain requests, are precisely addressed by the legislative Chamber. After all, we should all really want to be able to create good and decent conditions here in order to raise matters concerning standards in the justice system. And I pay great attention here to these de lege ferenda requests, which are included in the final conclusions of the report presented by the President. These are the issues that the House has so far been deaf. This is at least one of the cases concerning the amendment of cooperative law. It is once again stated in this call that there is a need for amendments to the Cooperative Law. I think that these words about the flawed state of legislation, which I stress with all my might, which I have recalled from your speech, are quite important and that this remark should be taken into account very seriously by everyone, especially those who have a legislative initiative in their hands. But also in the Parliamentary committees here in the Sejm, we should pay particular attention as parliamentarians to the quality of the law. I still do not hide that I think that perhaps the first President of the Court will address these comments more broadly, because otherwise I know that there are supposedly over 60 very serious and important demands in the prepared report on irregularities and gaps in the law. However, it would be good for them to sound in this House. But returning to the conclusions of the future demands, I also wanted to refer to another issue, the request for a frequent revision of the Civil Code. It would be good, because in fact such facts can be seen that there are also concrete demands - which was the greatest, so to speak, the imperfection of these frequent amendments, apart from the fact that these frequent amendments are being made, as the so-called ones should be taken into account. the quality burden of all this, in order to amend the law on civil court proceedings in the future so as not to be subject to such a charge against the Legislative Chamber. I would also like to take the floor here in the discussion on the two proposals put forward. One issue concerns the maintenance of a rather low value of the subject matter of the dispute in the context of labour and social security cases. First of all, this relates to labour law, because as far as social security claims are concerned, there are no restrictions on exceptional remedies. But in the case of labour law there are among others. a large part of cases that are not fully resolved in this extraordinary procedure before the Supreme Court, because people simply cannot afford to establish them. I am convinced that this value of the subject matter of the dispute, which depends on the possibility of bringing a cassation complaint, is not one of the greatest, but I would even wonder whether it should be even lower, because very often today, in matters relating to employment relations, we are dealing with claims related to certainly to claims for remuneration for work, and these salaries with us are at a very different level, especially in a situation where today very often the possibility to provide work on the basis of other legal titles than a contract of employment is allowed. I think that this issue should be subject to such profound reflection. But I was also very concerned about the demand for solicitor-radical coercion. It worries me very much that there is such a request to limit the circle of these eligible entities, i.e. lawyers and legal advisers who can, on behalf of applicants, write cassations or cassation complaints. This is a worrying situation, because it in some sense indicates that people who are entitled to do this profession provide these services at too low a level, since the Supreme Court in this matter has problems. I think this is a good call both for the whole system of professional improvement and for the institutions that introduce these people to the legal professions. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Law and Justice Club accepts the information of the professor, the first president of the Supreme Court. I am convinced that this information will also help to improve the quality of legislation in the Polish Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u262	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u263	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Madam First Chairman! High Izbo! The Supreme Court is a constitutional body appointed together with common courts for the exercise of justice. This objective, in accordance with the Law of 23 November 2002, is pursued in particular by ensuring the legality and uniformity of the case-law of the General Courts and of the Military Courts by recognising the deletions and other remedies, by adopting resolutions on legal matters and by resolving other matters referred to in the laws. The examination of the report submitted and discussed by you by the first President gives all grounds for a positive assessment of the activities of the Supreme Court. It must be concluded that the proceedings are conducted in a proper manner, with respect to standards and standards, but also without chronicity. Let me just point out that today's debate concerns the assessment of the activities of the Supreme Court itself as an institution, not as a whole of the general court. As indicated in the report, there was a slightly higher impact of cases in 2015, in particular cassation and cassation complaints. However, this did not lead to an extended period of recognition. The average waiting time for a substantive investigation was in the Civil Chamber, the Labour House, Social Insurance and Public Affairs and the Criminal Chamber for up to 10 months, and in the Military Chamber for up to 2 months from the date of impact. This state fully corresponds to the standards set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In total, 11 214 cases were brought to the Supreme Court. By comparison, in 2014 they were received by 11 065. The Supreme Court recognised a total of 10 502 cases, which is the same result as the previous year. Among them, the vast majority were cassation complaints and cassations, which were 7554. In addition to this preliminary part of the assessment, it is also worth recalling that the increasing complexity of the legal problems examined has led the Supreme Court to refer repeatedly to international and European law, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union. Turning to the judicial activity of the Supreme Court, it should be pointed out that its legislative activity is an essential element. It is primarily intended to ensure legal certainty and strengthen citizens' confidence in the state. First of all, High Izbo, I'm going to discuss the issues of the Civil Chamber. In 2015, the Supreme Court adopted 78 resolutions in this House. This represents a slight increase compared to the previous year, in which 74 resolutions were issued. Among them, twelve were issued in the composition of seven judges, the first President of the Supreme Court made four such requests, the Attorney General - two, the Ombudsman - one application and the Supreme Court - five applications. At this point, I would like to point out that the discussion may be about the failure to give any of the resolutions the rule of law. This is because they have the strongest influence on the certainty of the legal system. This issue was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Justice. The explanations given by you to the first President have its basis and the activities of the Civil Chamber in this respect seem reasonable. A very positive phenomenon, worthy of emphasis and praise, is also a decrease in the number of refusals to adopt a resolution compared to the previous year. The subject of the legal issues covered by the work was very diverse. However, it should be pointed out that there is still a clear advantage here, as in previous years, of the broadly understood procedural issue. In this area, the Supreme Court distinguishes two of its resolutions, i.e. those about the sign. III CZP 6/15 and II CZP 36/15, representing the jurisdiction of the substantive and local courts, which were very important for the general court. As indicated in the report, other distinguished case files were those relating to compensation from an insurer to insured persons for the activities of insurance agents. This clearly illustrates the weakness of regulation in this regard. This should therefore constitute an alarm and a signpost for the legislator to undertake specific legislative work. The report for the activities of the Civil Chamber in 2015 distinguishes a number of important and important judgments. For the purpose of today's debate and due to certain time constraints, I would like to mention only a few of them. They are certainly to be included in the resolution of 30 January 2015, in which the Supreme Court assessed the jurisdictional grounds and the practical usefulness of the so-called procura. the total inappropriate consisting in establishing a single proxy and making the validity of his legal activities on behalf of the company subject to the will of a member of the company's management. The enlarged composition of the Supreme Court, in resolving this extremely difficult legal conflict, has taken a more formal stand and considered that the provisions of the Civil Code do not provide for the establishment of a combined procura, even though this is contrary to the fundamental principle of representation of legal persons set out in the Article. 38 Civil Code. A further resolution deserving of distinction states that the substantive validity of a judgment declaring the provision of a model contract to be inadmissible excludes an action for recognition as inadmissible provisions of the same normative content as those applied by the defendant's trader in the case in which that judgment was delivered. Even after the provision has been entered in the register, an action for recognition as an unlawful provision of the same normative content applied by a non-proposed trader shall not be excluded. This ruling is of great importance primarily for thousands of Poles deceived by companies using illegal contractual arrangements. This will certainly facilitate the enforcement of their claims before courts. When discussing the case law of the Civil Chamber, it is impossible to escape the assessment of civil proceedings. We are all aware that they differ significantly from ideal, as the first president mentioned in her speech. Their main weakness is the rules governing enforcement. Further governments have tried to make smaller or larger changes, but in general, the rules in this area introduce a lot of ambiguities and problems of interpretation. Anyone who has come into contact with enforcement proceedings, whether as a creditor or as a debtor, is aware of the existing difficulties. This claim is reflected in the achievements of the Civil Chamber. As indicated in the report, the number of enforcement issues means that, in the practice of common courts, most often in regional courts, serious interpretation difficulties are still arising from the complex and complex nature of enforcement rules. The resolution of 21 October 2015 was valid from the point of view of Poles taking up their studies in a permanent manner. III CZP 67/15. It settled the question of the limitation period for a university's public claim to pay fees by a student, so-called. tuition, indeterminate college. The Supreme Court held that a contract on the conditions of payment for non-stationary studies concluded between a public university and a student is not a contract for the provision of services to which it applies, pursuant to Article. 750 Civil Code, order regulations. Therefore, the claims from these contracts are valid on a general basis, i.e. over a longer period of 10 years. Finally, I would like to point out that it is worth emphasising, as the authors themselves stress, that the Civil Chamber continues to promote the fundamental balance of constitutional values resulting from the principles of social justice described in the article. 2 the constitution and the social market economy described in Article. 20 constitutions. As regards the activities of the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, it should be pointed out at the outset that in 2015 there was a much larger number of cases to be dealt with. Importantly, this increase took place in all kinds of cases. There was certainly a clear increase in public affairs activity, which was a natural consequence of the 2015 elections. The presidential, parliamentary elections took place, there was a national referendum, as well as supplementary elections to the Senate. It should be clarified that the electoral code and the referendum law specify for the Supreme Court time limits for the adoption of resolutions on the validity of elections, which makes the recognition of electoral protests take place outside the order. These circumstances had a significant impact on the work of the Chamber in 2015, which also naturally affected the performance of the work. The functioning and organisation of the Chamber as a whole should therefore be assessed positively. In 2015, 35 legal issues were raised, i.e. 13 more than in the previous year. As in 2014, 26 legal issues were identified. A total of 26 resolutions were adopted, of which 9 were extended. It is worth recalling the caselaw on labour law, which referred to the employer's obligation to apply the procedure laid down in the Law of 13 March 2003 on specific rules for the termination of employment relationships with employees for reasons not affecting employees. On the other hand, with regard to the activities of the Criminal Chamber, it should be pointed out that 2015 has not been particularly different since 2014. Traditionally, the most important area of criminal activity was to interpret the rules and to ensure the uniformity of case law. It should also be stressed that it has been maintained at an appropriate level [[♪ The bell ♪]] in 2015 timely resolution of legal issues. As the authors pointed out, legal questions were settled on an ongoing basis, up to a maximum of 6 months. Finally, I would also like to emphasise that the Court of First Instance is active in the scientific field at all times, as evidenced by numerous conferences organised by the judges of the Civil Chamber, as well as by the Criminal Chamber or the Military Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u264	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! After reading the Supreme Court report, a few reflections arise. These are reflections on the state of both the Supreme Court and the entire judiciary. High Izbo! 10 months is the average time to investigate the case in the Criminal Chamber and the Civil Chamber. These 10 months are just a clipping of the process, because there is the first instance, the second instance, and in many cases it repeats itself. The result is that Polish processes last for years, which is far too long. And I don't blame the judges entirely for this. The judicial apparatus is badly organized. Instead of investing in people - administrative staff and assistants, they invest in technical novelties. When I read, and I do it relatively often, the justifications of judgments, including the Supreme Court, I wonder why they are so long-lasting. Who are these justifications meant for? For the citizens? For the sides? Or maybe for the other judges of the higher courts. When I read them, I wonder what normal Kowalski understands about these excuses. The judges must come down to earth and understand that they serve society rather than themselves. The report states that the deletions of the pages are too extensive. Let's read the Supreme Court judgments. Are they synthetic, or are they not too extensive, or are they written in a language that is incomprehensible to the average bread eater? A little more self-criticism, ladies and gentlemen of the jury. We continue to read in the report on the poor state of legislation. I don't know if that's the right thing to do. Supreme Court to assess the state of legislation. The third power is from the application of the law, not from its creation. If the judges want to create a law, a better law, not apply it, then run for the Sejm. It's only up to you to decide whether to serve as a judge or as a messenger. I read further that the value of the appeal is 10,000. The work court is too small to raise the threshold. For many Polish families 10,000. It's a year's income. For many employees, 10,000. It's thousands of hours of hard work. The Supreme Court judges, on the other hand, say that they are too low a threshold. More humility to the people of work. I know that a judge's salary in the Supreme Court is far greater than that, but that's why more humility and less crown. Surprisingly, there are demands to divide lawyers and legal counsels into those who can bring an action, and those who do not have that right. According to what criteria? I'm asking you to answer that question. Age criterion, internship, maybe a ranking of the firm's income, or maybe a scientific title, so you can turn to the Supreme Court? I read in the report that the level of case law should be assessed positively. High Izbo, is the Supreme Court from judging its case law? I have serious doubts about this. More humility, more modesty, more sense of service to the citizen, and less complacency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u266	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Madam First Chairman! High Izbo! Well, I've been listening. the first two club opinions and I must say that this opinion and assessment based on the meeting with the committee is not so positive. Namely, I wanted to draw attention to one thing. Art. 183 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that the Supreme Court - I quote only the end - also performs other activities defined in the Constitution and in the laws. Does this mean that the Supreme Court is supervising the implementation of the principle of social justice? In the view of the Supreme Court, should all be equal to the law in accordance with the article. 32 constitutions? In Poland, does everyone have the right to a fair and transparent examination of the case without undue delay? We haven't heard a word from the president on this subject in the committees. I understand that the Supreme Court does not have the instruments of direct control. And maybe it's our fault, the Sejm, that we don't equip ourselves with such instruments of the Supreme Court. But it is impossible, and I have not received an answer today nor have we received an answer to Janusz Sanocki's question at the two previous meetings of the committee, what consequences - and whether at all - were the judges who issued judgments which later proved to be unlawful before the European Court of Justice and Human Rights. Let me give you one example here. Dr. Hab, I don't remember the name. Malec was accused of defamation. He went through a whole cycle of Polish procedure, the professor of law at the Jagiellonian University was convicted. She won before the European Court only after how many years. She lost her health, lost her reputation, lost everything. I ask what the Supreme Court has done in this case, which should uphold the law and supervise the activities of universal courts. This is one of the more drastic cases. Therefore, I would like to reiterate the question: Did the Supreme Court fall into self - worship? That's my impression. Because to the attention made by Janusz Sanocki on the committee, the President replied, unfortunately, that the comments made by Mr Sanocki are virulent. I'd also like to turn... I mean, it's hard to judge the Supreme Court within one year, because the Supreme Court is issuing judgments over the years. They operate in the legal system. Part of these decisions - I think that you and your fellow Members, and above all citizens, know that they are unfair in the legal system. And yet no one has ever set them aside because they can't be repealed, because that's what we have, unfortunately, a situation. On the other hand, the Supreme Court recognizes trivial legal questions - indeed not this year, and this is to justify your first President - how much should be paid for the photocopy of the case file, as the citizen says. Here, the Supreme Court answers the legal question. It's just funny to me. I won't say it again, because I told it in the committee how the Supreme Court issued a resolution, and it was in the composition of three judges, changing the sex, the name, making a public officer out of a victim, making her a defendant, and then writing, also in the composition of three judges, that this is a typographic error. So all three judges made a mistake in writing. I just don't know how to put it anymore, Madam President. I would also like to address these last conclusions at the end, Madam President, in order not to delay. I agree with the need to review cooperative law. I agree that there is a flawed system of judicial costs, especially in civil matters, I would even say that he is thieving. Raising the value of the amount in proceedings in labour courts - here we could discuss, because these costs... that the workers usually think, they have limited opportunities. The deteriorating state of legislation in Poland - here I would agree with you as much as possible. Yes, the state of legislation is bad, and I am surprised that we, Members, do not know that. You know what the first reading looks like, you know, we go with tablets, we repeat 30 times the questions, and you know what it's like to process laws in committees. On the other hand, I am concerned, Madam President, about another matter, what you said on the committee, that the Supreme Court state no longer attends committee meetings, because there is no point. Or should we change our tactics, start going to committee meetings, maybe the committee members would behave more tone and thoughtfully? There is no doubt that you have experience. That's the third case. The fourth point - I strongly disagree - is that the proposal, that is, writing cassation complaints, is that the number of agents involved should be limited. This is not a good idea, this idea appeared probably two years ago, it was clarified even then that Warsaw lawyers should do so. I understand that the newly baked Warsaw lawyer who passed the application exam has more knowledge than the Katowice lawyer, which is e.g. For 25 years, the judge, the head of the department, the visitator, etc. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Madam President, I have a specific question for you: Is it a matter of narrowing the circle of lawyers to Warsaw lawyers so that the contact between the Supreme Court and Warsaw lawyers is very close? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u268	Thank you very much, sir. Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! It's a special day for me because we're talking about the Supreme Court today. We are talking about the law here, there are a few Members in the Chamber, and we are the law that these courts then have to apply. I have dealt with the justice system for many years, so I know what work it is and what responsibility it entails, because while we sit behind the judge's table, there is a man on the other side, and we decide on the most important matters for him. That is also the case in the Supreme Court. However, the Supreme Court is not only a judgment in a particular case in connection with the specific appeals brought forward, it is also an action to ensure a certain uniformity of case law. Why? Because the law here is a bad law, it gives us the opportunity to interpret it differently. Intertemporal rules, which are temporary, are that we're wondering, we're grabbing our heads, who forgot, because there's a time hole. That's what it's for, among other things. the work of the Supreme Court, which is also to ensure the uniformity of case law. This work is also the pursuit of a broadly understood teaching activity, also by organising conferences, which are attended not only by judges but also by the legal world, but also by editorial activities. By attacking the Supreme Court, it is easy to undermine the foundations of the state, which are the fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law. There's talk here about the length of proceedings, and there's accusations of bribery against judges. So I'm asking you, how many, ladies and gentlemen, are there currently proceedings against the judges? I have not heard the Minister of Justice inform the public of any such proceedings. By the way, it is worth to say that the rate of corruption among judges in Poland is one of the lowest in Europe. Is it worth insulting the judges and attacking the justice system? No. However, this does not mean that there is no need to improve the justice system, and that is also being said by the judges, but we cannot undermine the authority of the justice system for ad hoc purposes. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, the President pointed out, in answer to my question, what is the issue of the participation of judges, representatives of the Supreme Court in committee meetings and opinions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what it looks like - you are not listening to what the judges have to say at all. Very often, draft laws from the Ministry of Justice come to court. So what? Over the years, we've been taking this opinion, making comments, making arguments, and then there was a bill that didn't take it into account at all. How many meetings at the Ministry of Justice - and what? The end is that we present positions, problems there, and then there comes a project that completely ignores our comments. However, we are very much in favour of improving justice. 16 million cases and 10,000 cases. Judges. Count it, it's a simple bill. And the Supreme Court? More than 11,000 have come in. various things, each one needs to be considered, because it is man who is responsible for everything. And how many errands? Over 8.5 thousand and 84 judges at the end of 2015. In every case, even the smallest one, you have to make a decision. Last year, these cases were slightly more affected than in the previous year, but this did not affect the length of time it took to investigate the case. As the President said, this average period is 10 months, a little less is in the Military Chamber, but there are fewer cases there. This is in line with the standards laid down both in the Constitution and in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So we cannot talk about the duration in the action of the Supreme Court, but about the substantive work, the important and outstanding decisions, the extremely important and difficult decisions. Maintaining the efficiency of the Supreme Court is due to the personal involvement of judges and an expression of special care to provide citizens with the most effective judicial protection. It's work very often at the expense of family, at the expense of free time. And I know what I'm saying, they're not empty words. When I worked as a judge, I could forget about the weekend, and my vacation was often reduced. In a broader context, this is also the result of the activity of all the employees of the Supreme Court, including members of the Office of Studies and Analysis, as well as assistants of judges. It's a hard, intense and extremely responsible job. After all, it is the Supreme Court which recognizes the cancellations, adopts resolutions determining legal issues, recognizes electoral protests, determines the validity of elections to the Sejm and Senate, which is an additional element of work which also affects the speed of identification of other cases, as well as the validity of the election of the President of the Republic of Poland and the validity of referendums. In addition, as I said, it views draft laws and other acts. Recently we had projects concerning the Constitutional Court, after all, the Supreme Court pointed to irregularities. Has anyone considered them? Thus, it is absolutely unacceptable to speak of the judges of the Supreme Court and to define them with insulting epithets. It's not a good direction, it's a huge threat to the independence of the court. Any influence on the activities of the courts, including the Supreme Court, undermines the justice system, undermines its credibility and confidence in the justice system, where it will be able to resolve its problems. Democracy is based on three divisions of power: legislative, executive and judicial. This can't be a purely formal division. Each of these authorities should act independently. The activities of the Supreme Court in 2015 and the results obtained by the Supreme Court indicate that this was a year of positive work in terms of both case law and the amount of decisions given. The Supreme Court is an extremely important institution to uphold the law, independent of any influence, including political influence. And for the sake of all of us, let's keep it that way. And perception, ladies and gentlemen, of one, ten, hundred cases that have become media is insanely unfair, because please note that in 2015 around 14 million cases were brought to the general courts, more than 14 million cases. Over 16 million cases have been identified with arrears. So what's the percentage of cases? There will never be such a situation that everyone will be happy because we have a defendant who is convicted because we have a plaintiff who will win and the defendant will lose or the opposite situation. It's never gonna be 100%. support for the justice system, because someone will always be dissatisfied with the settlement. But look, check out the support for the justice system. And don't tell me here in this courtroom that judges are involved in lawmaking. They are practitioners who have every day the greatest experience and knowledge of what the law should look like to serve us, citizens. So it's worth it. Listen to what judges, maybe above all the Supreme Court, have in the matter of the right to say. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u270	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL club, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present our position on information about the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015. The document discussed today by the High House puts a shadow on the quality of legislation in Poland. As stated in the Supreme Court's information, the bad and non-existent signs of improvement and even the progressive deterioration of legislation are becoming increasingly apparent. As stated in her letter to the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, the first President of the Supreme Court, Professor Małgorzata Gersdorf, is serving as a litmus paper of real democracy. Especially when there is a specific merger of the function of the legislative and executive authority (and so does the so-called act. the parliamentary-office system), there must be a strong counterweight for almost omnipotent legislation. Today this balance is trying to permanently violate, for which many environments, including the Polish People's Party, do not agree. By appealing to the judges for courage, the President referred to them as the depositaries of the value of Polish democracy and, at the same time, the piastuns of public authority. It is difficult to disagree with this appeal in times of violation of the fundamentals of the state. As we read in the report, many times the amendments are provisional and ad hoc and far from professionalism. The legislator introduces them without sufficient reflection and without consultation, as a result of false impulses and the belief that the only remedy for irregularities occurring in the application of the law is its immediate change. It is impossible to disagree with this critical opinion and not ask how to improve the quality of legislation in Poland. Information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015 raised the problem of increasing the number of cases addressed to the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court. In 2015 by 16% the number of cassation complaints has increased. During that time, she received 2.5,000. proceedings. As a result, there are also cases that the Chamber has not been able to deal with and which remain to be considered in the following year. In just two years, the number increased by 92%. In the view of the Supreme Court, one of the reasons for this situation is the too low threshold of the value of the subject matter of appeal, which makes it possible to file a cassation complaint in matters of labour law and social security. It currently stands at 10,000. PLN and is much lower than the value of other property rights cases. In that case, it's 50,000. Consideration should be given to whether it is appropriate to increase the value threshold of the subject matter of appeal in matters of labour law and social security. This would relieve the Supreme Court from cases that are not necessarily to be brought to it. The role and weight of the Supreme Court in signalling irregularities and gaps in the law is, in our opinion, crucial to the functioning of the legal system of the Republic of Poland. In this context, they must not be alarmed by the ruthless attacks on this institution carried out for purely political reasons. We've heard from a majority of the Seyms about a team of guys who defend the status quo of the previous power. It should be made clear today that undermining the authority of the Supreme Court is undermining the fundamentals of our state and weakening its authority. It's a simple way to destroy the rule of law. In our opinion, ensuring the independence of judges is today becoming the central point of the public debate. Today I would like to remind the High Chamber of the Supreme Court's position on the Constitutional Tribunal. In its resolution, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court states that an unpublished judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal declaring non-compliance with the Constitution of a particular provision shall repeal the presumption of conformity with the Constitution upon delivery of the judgment. This should actually end discussions on this subject. The December Act governing the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal could not bind the judges of the Tribunal in a judgment on its non-constitutionality. The Supreme Court makes this clear with all its authority. We can note with appreciation that the Supreme Court can so firmly uphold the rights and independence of judges. We hope that, thanks to this primal attitude of the Supreme Court, we will avoid the threat of a kind of legal duality, i.e. a situation in which some courts recognise court rulings and some do not. The fulfilment of the statutory duties of the Supreme Court in 2015 should be assessed as positively as possible. Over 11,000. cases with diverse and complex topics, including more than 10 000. recognised, widely conducted dissemination of information about case law both through publications and the Ombudsman, numerous scientific conferences initiated by the Supreme Court, international cooperation - all of this must be appreciated today and appreciated for this work. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of accepting information about the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Three people signed up for the questions. Anybody else want to ask you a question? I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Katarzyna Czochar, the Law and Justice Club. [[Me too.]] Well, you're welcome, sir. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Madam President! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The way a country works, among other things, is witnessed. Justice. It is one of the most important state bodies. Unfortunately, the facts about the functioning of our judiciary are sad. From year to year more and more Poles complain about judges, their behaviour in the courtroom, unfair judgments, arrogance, etc. The proof that the Polish justice system is wrong is the number of associations that support people who are being wronged by the Polish justice system. In the last 3 years, around 20 such associations have been established. Madam President, my question is: could the Supreme Court, in any way, in the course of its activities and judicial supervision, counter abuse of the law [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the judicial authorities of the lower court? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u274	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! The first thing I wanted to ask you was complaints. In previous years, as I asked about complaints, they were divided into two groups - complaints were unfounded or of course unfounded. Has anything changed? Second thing - procedure for handling complaints. To date, it has been in such a way that the complaint has been affected, it has been addressed to the person to whom it was addressed, it has responded and the content of this reply was the handling of the complaint. Has anything changed about this? The next thing I've asked in this parliament several times is the higher standards necessary to prosecute the judge. Are those higher standards necessary to prosecute a judge than a normal person still in force? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the next question: What does it mean that the Supreme Court will respect the unpublished ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal? Because I don't know what that means. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u276	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! I was going to ask a question, I can ask them: Is it any wonder that the Supreme Court judges do not want to come and participate in the work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights? You can't be surprised. I had an opportunity yesterday to listen to the work of the committee and I witnessed an unprecedented attack on the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, President of Rzepliński, and an attack on the Constitutional Tribunal. If this is the case with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, then your President, absolutely all the judges of the Supreme Court are justified. I'll say one more thing. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, to thank you and to pay your respects to all the judges and to the entire justice system that you represent, because the justice system is the backbone of democracy in this country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's gotta stay that way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u278	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Miazga, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u279	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Avalanches in courts are growing piles of business suites due to the non-payment of invoices by contractors. The procedures are very unfavourable to creditors and the ruling is very slow, which has a very bad impact on economic activity. Companies are losing liquidity. In many cases, this long time of settlement completely deprives them of the possibility of obtaining payment, because the company no longer exists. Question: "Is it planned to speed up judgment by simplifying procedures in order to better resolve?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u280	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the first President of the Supreme Court, Professor Margaret Gersdorf, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your comments, and the good ones, and the bad ones that have affected my head. Some of them concern the entire justice system, which I do not feel responsible for, because I do not have the authority to supervise the entire justice system, that is, all common courts. Of course, this is to be done, and in my speech at one of the conferences in 2016, this proposal made by President Dąbrowski, I reiterated that the first President of the Supreme Court should have oversight of justice and common courts. It's been unheard of for now, but it was just at a conference. [[So far it's been unsupervised?]] Member, so far there has been no administrative supervision. I would like to say this: this can always be improved and there is certainly much to improve and in the work of the Supreme Court, and in the activities of universal courts. This is certainly a matter that one of you has said, including human instrumentation, that is, the number of judges and the number of auxiliary staff. At the moment we have the opportunity to hire auxiliary staff, I absolutely cannot complain about it, but we do not have a full cast of judges yet, because it takes a long time. I will withdraw in the future, if I am to withdraw, from this request that the circle of eligible entities to lodge cassation and cassation complaints be limited. Last year, I was talking about this being a matter of attorneys, legal counsels, so they could pick those people who are at the highest level. What results from this view of the Supreme Court? The fact that these cancelations aren't always well written. But if you do not wish this, I will withdraw from it. With regard to the value of the subject matter of appeal, which has also been addressed by many people here, the value of the subject matter of appeal in labour matters is 10,000. zł. This is little and it makes these cassation complaints very much, and the weight of the problem is not so great. Perhaps it may be a big problem by law, but for a person, 10,000. PLN is not such a big amount for each person. But as I can see, this will not be supported in Parliament, so we will also withdraw from this request, but we must be aware that the number of these cases will be increasing, because with some inflation or an increase in wages, this threshold will be 10,000. Evil can reach almost any dispute. And after all, cassation complaints, cassations are not the third instance, it is also in the public interest to rule on legal issues. This is not the third instance for a citizen. With regard to the state of legislation, what is included in this separate book of mine, I did not present it here, it was a request because it is not a matter of the report of the first Supreme Court President, which is a report under Article. 6 of the Supreme Court Act, while these gaps are presented on the basis of Article. 5. Two years ago, such gaps were never presented separately. Professor Seweryński told me at my first meeting in the Senate three years ago that it would be good for the first president to take advantage of his prerogatives. Since then I allow myself to pass on this information about the gaps that we notice, but only those gaps that we notice on the basis of specific cases, because it is not that the scientist sat down and invented that there is such a gap, but that is on the basis of those cases that are pending before the Supreme Court. Mrs Chrobak, who seems to have left, said: less complacency, more humility. I can't say that I have some complacency, but I can't blame the judges of the Supreme Court and not raise the merits of their judgment, which is why it's obvious that they're satisfied with the work of judges, and I think they deserve it. It is as if I said: you Members, less complacency, more humility, because people judge you even worse than judges. Oh, no, you guys work hard. [[Of course.]] It can't be that if I say something good about judges, it's some sort of complacency. So that's what I'm explaining from what I wrote. There was also a charge that the justifications were too long and that the language was incomprehensible. If there are strict justifications, they will be very hermetic. These reasons will certainly not be understood. It is the constant concern of the press spokespersons, in general the justice system - in the Supreme Court it can no longer be such a story, because these are legal issues - for the judgment to be remembered by people, the defendants, so that they can understand it. But really, the legal language is hermetic. We're trying to teach the judges to talk so long that the loser understands. I can say such an anecdote from the Supreme Administrative Court. There was a judge, and he's already dead, and he's always said, "Baby, you have to explain it so long that he realizes he's wrong. But he could explain it dozens of times. It depends on the judge's culture. And I'm sure that's something you need to work on. I'm not saying that the culture of judges is impeccable. I was a legal counsel. Believe me, I know what it all looks like. But in all the courts and judges, this culture really isn't bad. If someone meets with such unpleasant behavior to avoid speaking colloquially here, he obviously refers to the entire judiciary. I have supervision of the activities of universal courts only in the area of judgment and cassation complaints, i.e. I cannot assume responsibility for the fact that Mr Iksiński, Igzytowski, such judge or such behaves badly. Maybe the school that educates them, the judicial school? I'm sure for the entire term of office, every time I meet the judges, I'm paying attention to the fact that we're not without blame, that if society takes it that way, it means there's something wrong. On the other hand, I understand these judges, because I think under comfortable conditions. If they have 600, 500 cases a year and the closet collapses forever from cases, they are exhausted or so touchy. It shouldn't be like this, because if the academic teacher goes to the students, he can't be touchy because he had a fight with his husband before, but that's what happens, not everyone has that kind of resistance. So forgive them if they are, but it's definitely to be fixed. [[Maybe more applicants need to be allowed.]] Are the applicants allowed to adjudicate? [[No, to help.]] We can't apply, it's gotta be assistants. More assistants, of course, but it involves money. Why don't we go to committee meetings, I already told you at the parliament committee meeting. We don't walk because we never take our attention. This does not concern this term of office. Now I am even afraid to go to a committee meeting because the charges to Mr Rzepliński were such that he was politically committed because he was in committee meetings. So, actually, I don't know if I can walk or if I can't go to committee meetings. In general, I won't walk, I won't have that charge. But I think I'm gonna make sure that the members of the Bureau of Studies and Supreme Court Analysis walk more often because I have more of them now, and I have the ability to walk. Now I would like to address these specific questions, because it was in general. The arrogance of judges. I agree, sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't, and sometimes the judges are good. [[But what are the consequences for them?]] I have no naughty judges, i.e. no consequences for my judges, because I don't have the situation to make a Supreme Court judge rude. The consequences can be very different in common courts. I don't have supervision. To me, I mean. to the Supreme Court, cases are not brought before a second instance of disciplinary court. And the general view of reality is that there are judges defending themselves, not convicting. When I came to the Supreme Court and sat in such disciplinary proceedings, I was terrified that I was even here as a judge because there was a disciplinary punishment for everything. And these spokesmen, especially the lady from Katowice, are so punishing those judges that she hit, and she didn't hit, as it turned out, and reprimand and reprimand. So I don't have that kind of review of these disciplinary procedures so the judges can defend themselves. It's not a profession that defends itself. They're very self-conscious of their own beliefs. That's how I feel. As regards disciplinary action in the case of the Supreme Court, it is only the second instance. Cassation complaints are still being prosecuted as they were, which means they're going through the courthouse. There is a mode, whether it is acceptable, whether it is not a legal issue, a presentation, etc. It's a one-man judge's ruling. We're trying to make these justifications a little wider. Why wasn't it accepted for recognition? What charges can be brought against a judge of the general court and a Supreme Court judge? Well, that could be any charge. The judge is not, as you said here, I will say colloquially, holy cow to treat him differently, but he has immunity. He's got immunity so he can't get pulled. It is like a Member who has immunity when it comes to his activities, so that he cannot be accused unjustly, thus jerking. The judge may be charged with all charges from here, but this immunity must be lifted. Mr Wojciechowski's question. How will the Supreme Court respect the unpublished ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal? This is the case for this 2016 resolution. Courts are subject to the Constitution, so any composition ruling a given issue that will appear there will, as I imagine, be able to judge also from the point of view of the compatibility of a given solution with the Constitution, without necessarily referring to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. There are no such things so far, so we have nothing to discuss. I could discuss this resolution next year if my emotions go down a little bit. The purpose of this resolution was to make these emotions not so big. We, as courts, common courts and Supreme Court, have our instruments for the examination of constitutional compatibility, because we are subject to laws and constitutions, so even if the tribunal doesn't work, we can somehow manage it. The ruling is long - Mr Mizga said, Mrs Chrobota said. [[Voice from the room: Chrobak.]] Excuse me. In general, it's a long time to settle a case. My own cases are settled for six, eight years, too. I don't like it, but I don't plan on it, and I can't plan on common courts, how it's gonna look. In the Supreme Court, however, the resolution of these matters cannot be speeded up too much, because these are really serious matters that have a legal issue of serious nature. And you can't say that it's just like the tape: and we're gonna be like this, yeah, yeah. Such a resolution has far-reaching consequences for the justice system, but also for people. There are rare legal rules... but the case law of the Supreme Court is the case law concerning really serious and disputed issues that affect the Treasury and the Social Security Office, and on citizens, and on entrepreneurs. Oh, that speeding up the ruling, I already know, was about entrepreneurs, that they've been waiting so long for it. I wanted to draw your attention, in one of the speeches I said, that the cognition of the judiciary was blown up at all, because there was very much confidence in the courts in the 1990s and all alternative dispute settlements were eliminated. So that I would see speeding up this ruling by creating alternative ways of resolving disputes, such as hateful peace committees, intra-cooperative proceedings, complaint proceedings, conciliation committees in the field of labour law, etc. This would relieve the courts and significantly speed up these proceedings. Unfortunately, it must be said that people still have confidence in the courts and go to court and not to the conciliation committee. It's so our society, nature that we like to have a court order. The entrepreneur also likes to have a court order. He could settle something with some kind of settlement, but if he's got a conviction, he's got a sentence, like the first instance. I'd like to thank you again very much. I'm sure I'm going to take to heart this remark about the value of the subject of appeal in employment cases, because this one time comes up, with different options, so maybe my optics of this case is wrong, and these lawyers, because it was absolutely not about Warsaw lawyers, it was about good lawyers. But since that is the will of Parliament, lawyers and legal counsels, because they are not leaning forward, the Supreme Court will not make such a motion here. Marshal, thank you very much. If I'm wasting my time, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u282	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I state that the Sejm was informed about the activity of the Supreme Court in 2015. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the governmental bill amending the Act on Tourism Services and the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers (prints no. 629 and 743). I ask Mrs Maria Zuba to submit a report to the committee. Are you an MP? [[There it is.]] There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of two committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the examination by the two committees on 19 July this year. government draft law on amending the Act on tourist services and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. The Commission adopted seven drafting and legislative amendments and three substantive amendments. Amendment 1 concerned Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5f. Government in Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5f has determined that the financial collateral provider shall verify compliance with the requirements set out in the Act and with the facts and provide the voivodship Marshal with details of the calculated amounts due to the client or information about the failure to include the reported data in whole or in part within a period of not more than 30 days from the date of receipt of the customer's notification. At that time, the provision requires that the financial collateral provider should also include a justification for why it did so. This provision shall also take into account situations where an additional investigation is necessary. The government has determined a period of not more than 60 days from the date of receipt of the notification from the customer for the conduct of this procedure. In Amendment 1, the committees propose that this time should be extended but not longer than 90 days. In the explanatory memorandum, Members stressed that if there is a large group of customers seeking reimbursement, the deadline of 60 days may be too short. Amendment 2 also concerns Article. Five, but lips. 5m, which decides that where the financial security is insufficient, the client shall immediately inform the competent Marshal of the voivodship. The provision did not specify what costs the customer may include in his information. The committee therefore proposes to clarify the provision by adding that the costs are not sufficient to cover the costs of returning customers from a tourist event or to make reimbursement of payments as defined in paragraph 1. 1 point 2, and this is about those parts of the event that either did not take place at all or did not take place in part. This provision makes the provision of the Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 unambiguously, which will reduce the number of interpretations. Amendment 3 clarifies the guidelines for determining the contribution to the Fund. The members of both committees in this amendment propose to extend the wording of the Article. 10f paragraph. 3 of the statement clearly specifying that the amount of the contribution will depend on the place of the specific tourist event and on the type of means of transport provided in this event. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank the Members working both in the subcommittee and in the committee on the bill to be dealt with. Members of all parliamentary clubs have been committed to working on this project. I take the view that the climate that accompanied the work on this law stems from the awareness of the difficult situation in the tourism market, which results in a decrease in demand for travel agencies services, which results in an increase in the risk of the insolvency of travel agencies. There are many reasons for this situation, but in recent times the key cause of the crisis in tourism is the geopolitical situation and what is happening in individual countries, especially in countries often visited by Polish tourists. The government-prepared project, which is currently being launched by the High House, introduces the possibility of creating a second pillar in the system of financial security of tourism organisers. This will strengthen the overall financial security system in the event of the insolvency of the organisers of tourist events. Once again, thank you very much to Members, and I ask the High House to adopt the report of the Committee on Public Finance and to vote positively on the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u284	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Maria Zuba, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. Once again, Member, but this time on behalf of the club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said before, it is a bill expected by the market. When we voted on the amendments, we all took the decision unanimously, and the discussion we had showed that it was important for us to have this large law, which is being prepared by the Ministry of Sport, which will strengthen and at the same time implement the EU directive, secure tourists and at the same time allow offices to operate on the tourism market. This is very important in a situation where the number of people willing to travel decreases, the profitability of offices falls and they fall into financial difficulties. Such cases happen avalanchely, and the deterioration of the situation causes offices to fall. The strengthening of the insurance system, the second pillar, gives us the opportunity to survive until the law enters into force, which will completely change the insurance system of tourist services. At this time, this solution was considered the best. The Law and Justice Club will vote for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u286	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Joanna Mucha, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the bill amending the Act on tourist services and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers, print no. 629 and 743. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill introduces the second pillar of insurance into the tourism industry, and this is certainly a necessary undertaking, certainly an institution. It is also an institution expected by the industry, and therefore, as you have just said, we have been very committed to this project and I think that working on it in committees and subcommittees has been very fruitful. I would like to say a few things that are important when it comes to this project. Firstly, the issue of Pillar II, why the second pillar is needed. Many people could ask whether the first pillar, which already exists and which was strengthened in the years 2012 and 2013, is not sufficient. It is believed that the second pillar is to safeguard the situation of some kind of disaster in the tourism industry, i.e. the situation in which the bankruptcy of travel agencies takes place on the basis of dominoes, i.e. the bankruptcy of one company entails further bankruptcy. Such situations occurred in 2012, but fortunately to a small extent, but due to the very difficult geopolitical situation - but not only, because such a crisis can be caused by such a crisis. volcanic eruptions, such situations can happen - we want to protect customers of travel agencies, customers of tourist entrepreneurs from the possibility of losing money, but also from the danger that they will not be able to return to the country. It should be stressed that complementarity between Pillar I and Pillar II is extremely important. And here is the question of whether this is really the case after the project has been adopted. Unfortunately, we do not ensure full complementarity because of the level of penalties provided for in the first pillar at the moment. During the committee work, we have been assured by the Minister that work will be carried out on the revision of the Tourism Services Act and that this complementarity will then be strengthened, all the more so as it is also necessary to carry out work related to the implementation of the EU Travel Services Directive. I would also like to talk about what is extremely important in this law. This law provides that this guarantee fund will operate in the so-called "warranty fund." a light model, i.e. it will be a separate account in the Insurance Guarantee Fund and it will actually be a fund that does not employ employees, it functions as a bank account. This is a good solution, but it must be taken into account that this solution has very specific consequences. One of these consequences is indeed the low cost of maintaining this fund. I will remind you of our exchange of views in the committee when we talked about the fact that this cost in the impact assessment of the regulation is set at PLN 2.5 million, and we have been assured that this PLN 2.5 million is the cost incurred only in the first year of the fund's operation, and I hope that it will be so. The costs are actually low, but the consequence of a light model fund is that we will not be able to distinguish between the insurance premiums depending on the financial standing of the entrepreneur, i.e. we do not depend on how strong the tourist company is. You can find arguments for this fund to work, and I also find these arguments in the form that costs are low, but we really need to know that these are the consequences. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, if you don't mind, it's another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u288	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u289	The most important point about the fund is that this project gives the possibility to differentiate contributions between zero and 30 PLN. However, tourism operators who will pay a premium of 0 PLN and whose entire activity will cover precisely those areas where this contribution is very low will still have a very serious bureaucratic obligation in the form of reporting to this fund. This is, in my opinion, the weakest part of this project. We offered to change. I'm afraid this project may return after some time to the newly formed deregulation committee to correct it. On the part of the Ministry, however, there was no interest in eliminating this weakness. Either way, the project is good, the project is very well prepared, the work was fruitful and really very good during the committee and we as the Civic Platform will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u290	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u291	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present our position on the draft Act amending the Act on tourist services and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers, prints no. 629 and 743. In presenting this position, I stand here not only as a Member but also as a person who has worked in the tourism industry for several years. I want to divide my speech into a few parts, actually three parts. I want to talk about what it's like and how it was, how it's supposed to be, but I also need to mention the dangers of this bill. As it has been so far, people who have been away on vacation know in part, and I, as a practice, know very thoroughly that every once in a while, there has been a bankruptcy of some travel agency. The reasons for this were different. Because of some unfair actions, one well-known office went bankrupt, then the same person set up another office, and this office went bankrupt, so we had to deal with the effect of impunity in the travel agency's business of pulling money out of the market and so-called. controlled bankruptcy. The second thing, of course, was what happened in recent years, the emergence of terrorism. The market started to get very sensitive. Moreover, there is now an excess of competition and the perversion of this industry, which is the criterion: low price. There is nothing to hide that if there is a low price, it is low quality and high risk. Customers, when choosing offers, often follow a low price without seeing if the tour operator is strong or not strong. And then the perturbations started. These costs were, of course, borne by all companies, because it was a market-wide project, because this industry is very sensitive to trust. The lack of this trust has a negative effect on the whole industry: for tourists, but also for sellers, especially tour operators. This state of affairs, which was, resulted in a client who had bad luck hitting a company unfair or one that simply went bankrupt for objective reasons, rarely got a 100% return. I'm already overlooking the issue of perturbation when imported from abroad. Now the government project introduces such insurance for customers to make sure that currently when buying vacations there will be no risk that they will not get 100% return, so building the second pillar ensures security, i.e. automatically triggers trust, and trust is crucial in this industry. Really, as we have violated trust in tourism, the industry automatically, as it is said businessly, sits down because if there is no trust, we are afraid of entrusting our money to someone, because we may not get it back. What the government has proposed is very good. It's a pity that it's so late, it's a pity that it didn't happen a few years before, because 2012 was a tragic year for customers, but also for the industry, because financial repercussions on the decline in turnover are so big that then it's It really can't be fixed. I will mention from history, from my experience, how after the tourist boom came the year 2008, when the financial crisis came in a world that had a terrible impact on office finances, then it was deepened by a market imbalance, excessive competition and the emergence of a nasty criterion: a low price, i.e. the infamous last minute, because this is a problem. And now what does the bill introduce? I said, he's trusting. This fund is very much needed. A little late, but better late than never. And now I'm gonna talk about threats because there are threats, too. What's the main problem with this fund bill? There is a lack of control tools for the activities of such organisers, perhaps otherwise, all organisers and we cannot assess the risks generated by their activities or their financial status, so that there may be a situation that a new entity may emerge that will exploit the situation that this guarantee fund is in place and will go decisively with a view to bankruptcy. Let's say that this is a practical situation: I'm starting XYZ Travel, I'm introducing very low prices, customers come to me because they're sure this fund will work and get their money back. So there is a danger of dishonesty. And so far we have faced a situation that dishonest action has not simply met with responsibility, there have been no penalties. I'll introduce you later. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a government representative, a minister, specific things, because I don't want to talk too much about details here, but this is a major threat: lack of control. But really Kukiz-15 welcomes this project, we will certainly support it and help with further work so that tourism in Poland is as safe as tourism in the west of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u292	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Act on tourist services and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund Guarantee and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances is certainly necessary due to the geopolitical, expected and pro-consumer situation. In addition, the opinion is intended to comply with the provisions of Directive 90/913. In line with the government's intention, the proposed law aims to strengthen the financial security system of tourism organisers, tourism intermediaries, which will translate into the safety of travel agents' customers, based on the creation of two pillars. So the first pillar is supposed to be on existing terms and based on existing solutions, and the second pillar is to create a special separate account - the Tourist Guarantee Fund. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I was surprised by a small number of guests during the work of the subcommittee. As it turns out, only those guys who volunteered were invited. It's kind of weird that you only invite the guys who volunteered themselves. It was during this discussion that the voices of tourism organizers, tourist chambers, associations, as well as tourist agents and people representing the Marshals of the voivodships were certainly lacking. Nevertheless, I note that I welcome the proceding of the law in terms of the prepared material, which contains information about the public consultations carried out, the analysis of the costs of the Tourist Guarantee Fund, the regulations of the Minister of Sport and Tourism and the Minister of Finance. During my work in the subcommittee and commission, I was surprised by the optimism and confidence of government representatives in the issue of the readiness and predictability of the success of the implementation and functioning of the law after it came into force. I'll admit that I was curiously listening to the discussion about the cost of running the bill - 2.5 million, and in this amount, the main expenditure is on the IT system. As far as the next few years are concerned, I would still have analysed it. I hope that determination to work on this law will have a positive effect on our customers. According to the Act, the Marshal of the voivodship is still responsible for the return of tourists in the context of repatriation, but in the discussion there were no votes on optimal solutions to the claims claimed. Because we are dealing with two types of claims, namely people who have already left, and people who have been preparing for this trip. The law lacked an order on the issue of reporting the claim by customers, and this temporarily complicates and disperses the handling of claims. The injured person may now make a claim for repayment of the advance to the marshal, guarantor and fund. Sometimes there are several guarantees and foreign guarantors. Here I would suggest systematizing this process. An additional downside is the need for national tour operators to report, which are in fact covered by a 0-gold premium. Here I would also like to point out that it is good to note that an amendment has been introduced, which extends from 30 to 60 days time to lodge a claim, and the time which is needed for the verification of applications submitted by the customer has been extended to 90 days in special cases. Although contributions to the fund will be paid by the offices, the costs associated with the insurance itself are likely to be transferred to customers. Despite this, the parliamentary club The modern law supports this law because the law is pro-consumer and is needed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u294	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is really good. It's a shame it's so late. One point is that it is a pity that, once again, the Sejm will proceed with the temporary act, that this work could not be accelerated so that this law on this issue would be a comprehensive law and cover all issues so that we would not have to update it in a few months' time or work at all on the new law. It is also important for some calming of the tourist market, both from the client's side and tourist offices, also those partners of tourist offices who sign agreements with our offices abroad. And it's a good thing that this fund is gonna happen, because then our foreign partners aren't gonna be scared. signing these contracts. I don't think there's gonna be a situation where, in fear of getting no money, they're gonna have to expose Polish tourists. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The suitcases in front of the hotel. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u296	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the governmental draft law on amending the Act on Tourism Services and the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances, print no. 629. The solution proposed in the draft law, in the opinion of the Polish People's Party, will strengthen the system of financial security of tourism organisers and tourist intermediaries in the event of their insolvency. It will be strengthened by the creation of the so-called. The second pillar of financial collateral, i.e. the introduction of the Tourist Guarantee Fund, which is to constitute a separate account in the Insurance Guarantee Fund. This complementary system will allow for the collection of funds in case the financial security of tourism organisers and tourism intermediaries is not sufficient to cover the costs of return and reimbursement to customers. In order to cover return costs, the basic security system will first be used, second, the supplementary system, the second pillar. The Polish People's Party believes that this solution will increase the confidence of customers in tourism organisers and tourism intermediaries and increase the level of protection of customers. At this point it should be recalled that the previous government of PO-PSL, the Polish People's Party, has made efforts to protect customers. Implementing rules have been introduced pursuant to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. 2 Act on tourist services. These are the Regulations of the Minister of Finance of 19 April 2013 on the minimum amount of the bank or insurance guarantee required in connection with the activities carried out by tourism organisers and tourist intermediaries and of 22 April 2013 on compulsory insurance to customers. We are still in the process of implementing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on tourism events and related tourism services. This is a long-term process. Member States, including Poland, are required to adopt and publish national provisions implementing the Directive by 1 January 2018. It is the need to adopt and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary for the implementation of the Directive on tourism events and related tourist services. The Polish People's Party is in favour of strengthening the financial security system in the event of the insolvency of tourism organisers. With regard to the planned amount of the contribution - a maximum of 30 PLN, a minimum of 0 PLN - perhaps the maximum contribution should be increased to 50 PLN for those tourism organisers and tourist intermediaries, where it is known in advance that the risk is very high. I think time will verify that, Minister. The Polish People's Party proposes not to apply the legal solution for raising funds on the second pillar, i.e. under the Insurance Guarantee Fund. The point is that you can already predict, from this project, that someone else can run this fund. About the project, WW. The law of the Polish People's Party considers it to be a good ministerial project and is in favour of the adoption of the bill, print no. 629. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u298	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle on the governmental draft law on amending the Act on tourist services and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. During each holiday season we hear about the insolvency of travel agencies and thus about the loss suffered by their customers. Often the result of insufficient protection of the interests of consumers is not only wasted leave, but also significant financial losses. The primary objective of the bill is to protect the consumer whose rights should be extended. According to the Act, the financial security in the event of the insolvency of the travel agency will be activated for all affected customers who have concluded travel events contracts during the period of validity of the financial security, regardless of the moment the trader makes a declaration of insolvency. Such assumptions of the project will make it possible for customers who, especially in the case of expensive and exotic trips, had doubts about the use of less proven but often cheaper travel agencies, will be able to buy their holidays there with peace. The threat of terrorist attacks and the wave of refugeeism in many countries has already caused and may still result in the loss of financial liquidity of travel agencies. Therefore, this law will include mechanisms that counter the loss of customers going for an organized vacation. The dynamics of changes in Europe and in the world make more and more directions dangerous, and therefore the market situation and the very functioning of travel agencies are a real risk of insolvency. The introduction of the Tourist Guarantee Fund will ensure that the interests of consumers in the event of geopolitical change are adequately secured. An important argument to support the further process of the law is that it was consulted very widely with stakeholders. 24 entities submitted their views, of which 7 did not make any comments and supported the essential assumptions of the draft law. It should be noted that many comments submitted, including from the marshals of individual voivodships, were included in the project. According to the amendment of the Act, the guarantor of the payment of funds and the person entitled to act in favour of customers in matters of payment of travel contracts is still the Marshal of the voivodship. The provisions of the Act also essentially regulate the scope of the data to be included in the list of tourist agreements. So far, tourism companies have had more flexibility in this area, which has not protected sufficiently the use of tourist services. Greater rights for tourists will also be translated into more possibilities of control of tourism organisers and tourist intermediaries, to which the Marshals of voivodships and the Minister responsible for tourism are entitled. From the point of view of consumers, it also seems important to clarify the concept of the cost of returning customers from a tourist event. According to the amendment, it will cover both transport costs and necessary transfers, accommodation, including those incurred individually by customers. In turn, an important law for tourism organisers and tourist intermediaries will be that of a differentiated contribution to the Tourist Guarantee Fund, which is linked to the level of risk of tourist events organised by them. Amenities for entrepreneurs will also be the possibility to draw up a declaration on the agreements concluded for a tourist event or tourism mediation by means of electronic communication. The Act introduces a number of important changes that will help to safeguard the interests of consumers of tourist services. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the contested bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u300	Thank you very much, Member. Several Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is indeed a necessary bill, but it will also generate specific costs. I would like to know if the Ministry of Sport and Tourism carried out an estimate of the increase in travel offers prices after the changes were introduced. It is very important that there are two pillars and the first pillar as if it were not compatible with the second pillar of financial collateral. What will happen if entrepreneurs who do not pay contributions to the Tourist Guarantee Fund are covered by sanctions, should a similar solution be applied to the first pillar of the guarantee scheme so as not to lead to a discrepancy between Pillar I and Pillar II? And the question of self-government. Will the new duties imposed on the Marshals of voivodships in the field of control related to the operation of TFG result in additional burdens on the budgets of voivodships and what scale will it be? And finally, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's this year? Is the anno 2016 industry faced with such concerns an industry that will come out of it unharmed? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u302	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am in favour of protecting the customers of travel agencies as much as possible, but I wanted to draw attention to one important problem related to the tourism industry, which has been repeatedly signalled to me. Well, travel agencies work with contractors, e.g. with companies renting them buses to transport tourists. Despite contracts and invoices, charges for these services are often not carried out. Unless directly applicable to clients of offices, counterparties have serious financial problems. In order to pursue their rights, they must refer the case to the court or assist the recovery companies. Sometimes these actions do not work either. Unfortunately, the Marshal's offices are not obliged to intervene in such matters, therefore to Members of the applicants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I appeal: Is it possible to clarify the regulations in the amended law so that the contractors of tourist companies are also in some way...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u304	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u305	...protected from dishonesty? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u306	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Catherine Chechara, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much for the amendment of the law, which gives greater financial security to those using tourist services. This is a very important bill. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to certain phenomena. Unfortunately, some unreliable offices operate in such a way that they cancel paid trips previously, and their participants have failed to demand their money back, often they have to report to the prosecutor's office. This was not so long ago in Opole. The travel agency charged for trips, canceled them without returning the money, and then declared bankruptcy. My question is: Is the Ministry convinced that the amount of the contribution [[♪ The bell ♪]] guarantee the safety of tourists using tourist offices in a situation of bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u308	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Has the amended act been consulted with the Polish Chamber of Tourism, comprising as many as 400 members and having 12 branches? What is the opinion of the Polish Chamber of Tourism on the proposed solutions? Is it true that the tourism industry expects the long-term return of customers who have burned themselves on unrealised tourism services? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u310	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Grzegorz Janik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u311	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2015 5.6 million Poles took advantage of foreign tourist trips. Everyone in this room wants Polish tourists to always return home safely. The Tourist Guarantee Fund was therefore established. Hence my question to the Minister. Minister, is it good or bad for Polish tourists that the Tourist Guarantee Fund is not a separate institution? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u312	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Lydia Burzyńska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u313	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed bill proposes regulations detailing the provisions of the revised Tourist Services Act. I am very pleased that the proposed changes will protect tourists from the consequences of the fall of travel agencies. I regret that no one thought about Poles and their rest in 2012. Today I heard from this speaker that it actually affected Poles to a small extent. It fell then, ladies and gentlemen, 15 offices. Not hundreds, but thousands of Poles left without going away, as I jokingly describe, together with me, had a holiday without leaving. This was because the State did not have effective instruments to supervise the activities of travel agencies. Suggested e.g. in the draft law, clarification of the way in which claims are dealt with [[♪ The bell ♪]] for damages not yet accounted for...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u314	Ask the question, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u315	...as well as claims for damages not yet paid will be corrected. Will the proposed changes, Minister, affect the safety of potential tourists and what I do not wish for anyone if an office announces its bankruptcy or if the client stays without leaving and, worst of all, without money? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u316	Thank you very much. I'm asking Mr. Piotr Uruski, the Law and Justice Club. Are you an MP? [[There it is, there it is. Now.]] There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u317	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the amendment of the Act on tourist services and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances, I have questions for the Minister. Will the proposed amendment to the Act on the Tourism Guarantee Fund increase confidence in travel agencies? Will the expected contribution significantly affect the availability of tourist events for customers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u318	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very specific question for the Minister. The Central Register of Tourist Organizers and Tourist Intermediaries includes those that package. Not everyone here knows what's going on. They pack, that is, they make transport, rest plus transfer - that's what a tourist package is made of - and insurance. But there are airlines, cheap airlines that do this, and they're not in that central register. According to the draft law, these cheap airlines will not bear the burden of this insurance. Do you foresee that it should be prevented from breaking the rules on equal opportunities in competition, that some may avoid this law and others must respect it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u320	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law presents some legal solutions concerning, among others, an isolated Tourist Guarantee Fund account. At the same time, in the explanatory memorandum, the drafter states that, in agreement with the tourism industry, the legislator may decide to adopt a different legal solution. I wanted to ask: What are other possible legal solutions for the functioning of the Tourist Guarantee Fund? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u322	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mieczysław Baszko, the PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I ask you to clarify that, in the future, the legislator - in clarification in the draft law - will decide, in agreement with the tourism industry, to adopt a different legal solution. And what I'm asking is that there's a separate account that will allow for a quick separation and transfer of the accumulated funds from the Tourist Guarantee Fund. Does the Ministry in advance assume that the Tourist Guarantee Fund will be managed by someone other than the Insurance Guarantee Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u324	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice, to ask a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u325	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a very brief question for the Minister: How will the contributions to the Tourism Guarantee Fund be determined? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u326	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mieczysław Mizga, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u327	Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u328	The other way around, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u329	It's okay, Marshal. Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 11 bankruptcy laws are clear, says that anyone who does not pay their debts on time becomes insolvent. However, in 2011, the Supreme Court as if amended this provision, adding to it that when it does not pay its obligations over a longer period of time. According to bankruptcy law, these are two liabilities, these are already liabilities, but in the longer term. As far as 2012 is concerned, the use of this Supreme Court judgment, the mass bankruptcy, can continue to be insolvent until everyone realizes that there is no security. Is there any reason for this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no need that... In fact, we are taking this change here because of this position of the Supreme Court. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u330	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. And please, Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u331	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that we are proceeding today on a project related to the creation of another security for Polish tourists, as well as companies engaged in tourism activities and that we are going to create a Tourist Guarantee Fund, is definitely very good for all of us, as the representatives of practically all parliamentary clubs emphasized in their speeches. I therefore have two specific questions. Are there any first calculations of how this could possibly translate into costs for a single tourist, or are they already estimated, or are we just going to determine it in the course? Because we realize that security must be paid for. But what is the cost row? And the other thing. Is it taken into account to safeguard the interests of subcontractors, or is it only the safety of a particular company? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We know there's a lot of trouble here about getting the money back for subcontractors and...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u332	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u333	...this often threatens the bankruptcy of these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u334	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Paweł Papke, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Reinforcing a comprehensive security system is a solution to completely eliminate the risk of lack of funds to cover damages suffered by customers even in the event of a series of insolvency of travel agencies, and this law is of course intended to fully secure the above mentioned customers. And here's my question: Minister, what is the planned financial envelope of this bill this year and next years? And what happens if these sums are inadequate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u336	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the presentation of the club's posts there were such statements: Why is this law so late? After all, we all know that the largest number of bankrupt travel agencies was 2012, when as many as 15 companies went bankrupt. Indeed, the question arises as to why this bill was prepared so late. Why didn't the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party take care of the interests of Polish tourists? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u338	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Mr.Dawid Lasek, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is usually the case that a dilemma, whether the client's well-being or the citizen's well-being, or the entrepreneur's well-being, is solved in the proposed legal solutions. Here I have the impression, in fact, that, also after the speeches of representatives of parliamentary clubs, that what the government proposes in the amendment of the law, is what really meets the expectations of customers, because it minimizes to zero the risk of not receiving reimbursements for broken or unrealized tourist events, as well as this solution increases the safety on the part of entrepreneurs, tourism operators and tourism intermediaries, because it is actually building, as was also mentioned in this room, trust in this type of business that is actually sensitive and subject to various fluctuations, which in fact also causes a fall in demand, bankruptcy and job losses. This solution, which we are proposing, is a solution that does not really interfere with the functioning of the first pillar, and this pillar - and here too the Member has said - is reinforced by this change in the level of guarantees that have been in place so far. He is already completed, in colloquially speaking, by these higher limits, while he gives Poles, citizens, their families 100 percent certainty that in the event that, in fact today, this risk is greater as a result of global threats, as a result of various unpredictable events, such as those we observe in mass media, there is actually an increasing tendency to avoid taking foreign trips, not to go abroad, this situation is amortized by this introduced solution in the form of the Tourist Guarantee Fund. Thank you very much for the questions, of course they were and detailed, and quite general. I will try to group them together in such a way that you Members are satisfied. It seems to me that it is most important to point out here - and it was changing. in several statements, questions - that this is a solution that does not really create new structures, a new institution. Here, Mr Janik seems to have asked whether this model, called the soft or light model by Mrs Mucha, is the right model. It is appropriate, because first of all, it does not create a new institution, but it uses a well-functioning institution, which is the Insurance Guarantee Fund, and secondly, it is a solution that is an immediate solution. Notice that, if - and all this indicates - this season the Act will come into force, 14 days after the publication of this Act, customers of travel agencies will be covered by this protection. So it's a solution from all angles. As regards the contributions, please, they were proposed at the level of the law in the range from 0 to 30 PLN. And, of course, here are some criteria that will determine how the tourism organizer or the tourist intermediary will look like this contribution obligation, whether it is less or more. We have, as is the case with the definition of the risks to Pillar I, been addicted to geographical criteria and transport criteria, transport costs. This means in practice that tourism organisers and tourism intermediaries who offer packages at national level, i.e. in national tourism, can be - and this is the planned solution - covered by a zero contribution. That means they won't have any extra costs. On the other hand, where and where distance, and certain risks associated with transport costs are greater, we predict that by regulation these contributions may be higher, and they may amount to a maximum of 30 PLN, but of course they do not have to be that much or close in this amount. Ladies and gentlemen, the obligation to contribute - and this has also been reflected in these statements - is indeed the result of this and applies to those who are registered in the central register, i.e. those tourism organisers and tourist intermediaries who are in that register. It is then simply such an effect that, on the basis of such monthly declarations, by the 21st day following the end of the month covered by that declaration, such an undertaking must refer to the separate Insurance Fund Guarantee Fund account an appropriate amount. Of course, at the same time, he makes a declaration in which he speaks about the type of contract he has concluded. The fee will not be on the contract, but on each of the tourists, each of the customers covered by the contract. So this is the situation where, if I may say so, from the head, this contribution will be downloaded. I would like to say here, because this was also the subject of consideration at the level of the public consultation, as well as the discussions at committee meetings, that, according to clear studies, customers, tourists - because it will probably also be the case that travel agencies, i.e. organizers and intermediaries on the client's website, as if they would cede the cost of this contribution, but security is such an important priority issue, and this is due to the research of the World Tourism Organisation, among others. The European Union, the European Commission, is willing to bear such a cost only in order to have this 100% certainty that, in the event of the bankruptcy and insolvency of the travel agency, i.e. the life situation that you also mentioned a few years ago, there is a guarantee actually very fast and certain, which is most important, of the recovery of these funds. We're not changing the executive system. Here was the question of how you called it up, whether you asked how the marshals dealt with this solution. Well, at the stage of the public consultation, all the marshals who participated in them, passing their views on the project to us, said that they accept this project, that it is absolutely a project that they see as beneficial to the customers of travel agencies, for citizens. Therefore, here any risk of opposition on the part of the Marshals of voivodships should be rejected, because also those obligations which result from the start of the second pillar will not be obligations which will generate some additional costs on the part of the functioning of the local government, regional governments. Ladies and gentlemen, somewhere in the background probably all of this, maybe not directly, but you also asked, saying that - I don't know if it was a charge, but it's certainly true, it can be true - it's a temporary solution. Well, this is not a temporary solution, but it really responds very quickly to the threat that may occur any moment now. We're already filing bankruptcy, travel agency insolvency. We are not really able to predict whether there will be a wave of bankruptcy at the end of the season, so when we have a functioning law in September, i.e. these contributions to this fund will be postponed, let us still remember that in the first flip or in the first wave the system that is already in operation, i.e. the first pillar, and in the event that it is insufficient, will enter the second pillar. On the other hand, it is only because we are obliged as a Member State to implement the new directive, which has been in force since November last year, the Tourist Events Directive, and we have already started working on it as a resort. Maybe I will end with such an invitation, because you also asked about the participation of various types of entities, the Polish Chamber of Tourism and other partners. They participated, ladies and gentlemen. At each stage of the work, these consultations were deep, partnerly and will also be in the case of a new law that implements the new EU directive on a 1:1 scale. So I end up thanking the parliamentarians. It was indeed comfort to cooperate in such a formula, with such an understanding of the issue. I thank the representatives of all the clubs, and I invite you, and also all those who are interested in new legal solutions for tourism, to cooperate. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u340	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 54 hrs. 16 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Information to the President of the Council of Ministers on the outcome of the referendum concluded in the United Kingdom on the further membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union. I ask the President of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Beata Szydło, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the opportunity to hold today's debate on the implications of the British referendum in which the citizens of the United Kingdom have decided to leave EU structures. This is a critical moment for the European Union as a whole. For the first time in the history of European integration, we are dealing with a situation where a Member State decides to take such a step. Today's debate should focus on two aspects. Firstly, it should be a discussion about Brexit himself, its consequences for Poland and for the European Union, but it must also be a discussion about the condition of the European Union itself, because none of us seems to have any doubt that Brexit is above all a summary of the point at which the Community itself is presently located. On 23 June a referendum on membership of the European Union took place in the UK, 51.9% of which The British supported the UK's leaving the European Union. The British society has clearly decided its future outside the Community. The new Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Prime Minister Theresa May, even though she was against Britain's exit from the European Union, said after the referendum that Brexit stands for Brexit, so this is the essence of today's state of affairs. The British have decided, and everyone, even if we disagree with their decision, we must respect this choice. Great Britain is our ally, our friend, our business partner. Regardless of the choice made by the British to join the European Union, we should continue to maintain and maintain this alliance of friendship, cooperation. We respect the sovereignty of the nation which has taken such a decision in a democratic procedure and decided on its future. Follow-up to the UK, agreeing on the procedure and conditions for Britain's exit from the European Union must take place in a spirit of full respect for the choice made by the British. The aim is not to deepen disputes and differences in order to develop common relations for the future, without prejudice, without mutual accusations. The British people have made a sovereign decision about the future of their country in accordance with democratic principles. The European Treaties have provided for a procedure for the departure of a Member State from the European Union. The decision to leave the Union, regardless of external circumstances, regardless of the pressure from the EU institutions, must be well prepared and remain in the hands of the United Kingdom. The initiation of an exit procedure from the European Union is an internal matter for the United Kingdom. While fully respecting the legal and internal political conditions of the United Kingdom, Poland does not put pressure on Great Britain to decide to launch the article as soon as possible. 50 treaty. Of course, we do not want this period of uncertainty to be unnecessarily prolonged, but, above all, we believe that it must be a well-prepared and concerted process. The most important thing for us is to ensure that the whole process is well prepared, not just how quickly Britain will start it. And right here. Let me refer to the incomprehensible rhetoric that we have heard from the Polish opposition since the British referendum. [[It was supposed to be about Brexit, not the opposition.]] These unsympathetic, sometimes even mocking comments from politicians, that Poland speaks of Britain as its strategic ally, and London is just leaving the European Union, such reckless and infantile comments only testify to a complete lack of understanding of foreign policy and Polish interest. Great Britain is an ally of Poland and our important friend. The UK is a strategic member of NATO and a very important country in European politics. Whether he will be a member of the European Union or not, the United Kingdom will remain an important partner for the Polish government. We are now in the process of negotiating with the United Kingdom, the outcome of which will be decisive for the long-term effects of the UK's exit from the European Union. Many issues, such as freedom of movement for persons, including recognition of professional qualifications, trade relations, the participation of the United Kingdom in the financing of the European Union budget, scientific cooperation, the situation of our fellow countrymen studying in the British Isles, and support for agriculture after the United Kingdom has left the common agricultural policy. The Polish government has already taken action to determine our interests in future talks. We have set up an inter-ministerial team to continuously analyse the negotiations regarding the UK's departure from the European Union and to properly define the Polish negotiating objectives in relation to the new relations of the Union with the United Kingdom. A similar team operates at the level of the Committee for European Affairs of the Council of Ministers. In addition, we open a wide public consultation with workers' organisations, entrepreneurs and experts. We want to listen to the voice of all social groups in order to take into account the prospects of both companies and citizens in the negotiations. The government is constantly following the situation in the markets and is ready to take stabilizing action if necessary in view of the fact that immediately after the referendum, which resulted in a reaction to the financial markets, the UK pound has weakened to levels not recorded since the 1930s, and all major global exchanges have recorded declines. These short-term effects are due to the uncertainty of investors who are concerned about the future of the British economy, but, as I said earlier, the government is prepared and monitoring this situation on an ongoing basis. At the last European Council we met among the 27 Member States in order to establish an approach to the negotiations with the United Kingdom. The European Union wants to have close relations with the United Kingdom, which will be mutually beneficial, beneficial and sustainable. We fully share the views of the 27 countries that access to the single market is linked to the adoption of all four freedoms, including the freedom of movement of persons. It should be stressed that until the conclusion of the agreement on new relations, we do not remain in the legal vacuum. According to the Treaties, as long as the United Kingdom remains a member of the European Union, it is obliged to respect the rights and obligations involved. This also applies to the rights of Polish citizens living in the United Kingdom. For us, of course, the most important task, one of the most important tasks is to safeguard the interests of Poles living and working in the Islands. In February in the European Council, my government negotiated the terms of the new agreement with Great Britain. Then the Polish government firmly raised the rights of Poles who live on the Islands. Then, despite many pressures, we ensured respect for the social rights of Poles and negotiated good conditions for Poland. After the British decision on Brexit, there were suggestions that the result of the referendum was the result of our attitude and too hard negotiations in the interests of Poles, but I can only answer this absurd accusation in one way. The interests of Polish citizens will always be my most important goal and I regard this charge as a praise for our actions within the European Union. [[Applause]] After the referendum, my government's purpose has not changed. It was crucial for Poland to guarantee the rights acquired by our countrymen who live in the UK. Their compliance is a matter of maintaining certain standards and should not be subject to any negotiations. However, we understand that, after leaving the European Union, the United Kingdom will want to have more control over its labour market. However, we expect the new regulations to be proportionate, non-discriminatory and based on substantive considerations. Polish citizens cannot be restricted on the basis of populist slogans completely detached from economic realities. Protecting the rights and dignity of Poles abroad, including in the UK, is a priority of the Polish government. We expect close cooperation with the UK authorities on the prevention of xenophobic incidents, the victims of which, among others, have been victims in recent weeks. Polish citizens. The Polish diplomatic and consulary service remains in contact with the police and Polish citizens living in the area and monitors the conduct of investigations conducted by the competent local authorities. Racist and anti-immigrant incidents following the EU referendum in the UK were directed not only against Polish citizens but also against institutions and citizens of other Member States. The cases of anti-Polish incidents are treated by the British police as a priority. The issue of the status of EU citizens in the UK, as well as the xenophobic incidents that the Poles in the Isles have suffered in recent weeks, has been a constant issue of recent bilateral talks with British authorities. Just after the referendum in June, telephone conversations took place between me and Minister Witold Waszczykowski and our counterparts, and on 19 July I also spoke on these topics on the phone with Prime Minister Theresa May, stressing the priority of these topics for our government. I have been assured of respect for rights acquired by Poles as citizens of the European Union throughout the entire period of UK membership in the European Union. Britain has one of the strongest and most extensive laws in the world to protect against xenophobia, bigotry and hostility. Police are working closely with local communities on reporting possible signs of racial crime. The UK authorities intend to develop a new action plan to combat offences and crimes against this background. He's supposed to stay in London, among other things. the possibility of rapid and effective reporting of racial offences, the introduction of a programme to protect victims of such crimes, new regulations for the prosecution to prosecute and punish such crimes. The British authorities' response to acts of intolerance and xenophobia must be assessed as appropriate and coordinated. In addition to the actions of politicians, representatives of internal affairs and local communities, the police and the institutions appointed to combat xenophobia and racism, it is also important that the media condemn these cases unconditionally and universally, and support and solidarity for the British society. The United Kingdom is also one of our important trading partners. In 2015, almost 7% of the British Isles were hit. Polish exports worth around EUR 12 billion. Our trade cooperation has been developing very dynamicly for several years, and the balance of exchange has been beneficial for Poland. Already after the referendum, we felt strong pressure on the reform of the European Union budget and its main policies, namely cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. The gap resulting in the United Kingdom leaving the Union amounts to around EUR 10 billion per year with a budget of around EUR 150 billion. On the one hand, This is a factor which strengthens the pressure on the reform of the European Union's budget after 2020, but at the same time it is an amount that would be able to complement the 27 Member States without major problems. Poland will be open to fair discussions on budget reforms with all its participants. The subject of the budget should be more linked than shared by Europeans, and measures should continue to promote equalisation of differences between countries and regions and be felt for all social levels. Budget issues should be part of the UK exit negotiations and a new model of relations with the European Union. For example, Norway and Switzerland support the least developed regions of the European Union financially in exchange for access to the single market. Brexit will also have specific consequences for other areas. Support schemes for businesses, farmers that will be established in the UK should not distort competition on the European market. Great Britain's leaving the European Union can also affect the priorities of the European Union's common foreign and security policy. However, it should be remembered that Brexit does not change our geopolitical situation. The destabilisation and threats coming both from the east and south, migration or terrorism will remain a common challenge for the Member States of the European Union and the United Kingdom. We therefore believe that the United Kingdom should remain a key partner of the European Union in the international arena. We look forward to further close cooperation between the European Union and London in relation to relations with Russia and the countries of the eastern neighbourhood. However, the UK's exit from the European Union is not only a challenge, but also our opportunity. The government strives for Poland to attract immigrants back. We don't want to be the country people emigrate from, we want to be the country they're eager to return to. We want to create a vibrant economic environment, enabling migrants to employ appropriate skills and experience. It is also very important to create an environment favourable to their entrepreneurship. On the other hand, I would like to stress that the return of migrants to Poland should result from the attractiveness of our country, not from restrictions on the rights of our fellow countrymen by any third country. Every Polish citizen's rights abroad will always be protected by the Polish government. However, our relationship with Great Britain is not limited only to the dimension of membership of the European Union. I would like to stress that the United Kingdom remains one of Poland's key partners. We intend to continue and deepen cooperation in all areas, both bilaterally and within international organisations, including. The UN and NATO. The future of Europe, the future of our continent today should be a fundamental topic of discussion. The migration crisis, Brexit, the wave of terrorism - all this is the result of the wrong path the European Community has taken. In recent months, as well as the British, the Dutch, rejecting the agreement with Ukraine in a referendum, have expressed their lack of confidence in the European Union. These are voices saying that the Union must go through reforms that will make it stronger, more flexible, more bureaucratic, facilitate adaptation to today's challenges and, above all, bring the European Union closer to the real needs of its founding countries and citizens. The basic dogma has been forgotten: We are a community of sovereign states, free nations. We are looking for what we have in common, but above all we respect our differences, differences and decisions. Freedom of citizens, respect for individual rights, while believing that only in the community can we build positive relations and create positive changes - these are characteristics close to millions of our countrymen. Today, in the face of European crises, Europe, we all have to ask ourselves whether we have fallen too far away from those values which are at the heart of our unification... [[You guys sure are.]] ...or selfishness, political correctness doesn't lead us to a dead end. Europeans, who are told to think the same in the name of political correctness, are impatient and increasingly disappointed with the direction in which not Europe but the European elites are going. You have to say it loudly and clearly. [[Applause]] The voice of citizens cannot be underestimated. The voice of Europe's citizens must not be underestimated, it must be listened to, not turned its back on, as some Brussels politicians have suggested. Perhaps more respect for the self-determination of states and nations was lacking. I think we need to take this reflection to save what is a great achievement for all of us - a common Europe. The way out of these crises is to return to the roots, values and principles that were followed by the architects of our union. Europe must respect the individual choices of countries. We differ, our nations have different traditions, different cultures and customs. But we have created a united Europe because we believe that there are goals and universal values and common values for us. We want peace and peace on our continent. We want prosperity for the people of Europe. That is why we are making an effort to bridge the development gap between our countries, because we realise that history has not treated us equally. The Union needs change. We must not be afraid to talk about the necessary reforms, we must not be afraid for the sake of the political correctness of the discussion that the Union must change in order to serve Europeans. [[Applause]] We need to have an honest discussion about the real, even to the foundations of the reform of the European Union, the reform of the Union, which can change its current situation. The leaders of the countries of the European Union, but also the leaders of the Community, must realise that it is only by returning to the Christian values which are at the heart of the unification that the European Union can be changed positively. [[Applause]] The European Union must communicate its actions better, show what it really is and what its benefits are. The European Union must also listen better to the voice of its citizens and enjoy a greater democratic mandate. There was just no such dialogue with British citizens, and during the referendum campaign it was too late to bring it back. A genuine reform of the European Union can bring about a change of treaty. Poland is ready for this discussion. We will not allow Europe to move on to the experience of leaving the Union through Great Britain. When others mature in this debate, we want to play a key and active role in it. The Polish government has already started to define our proposals in the process of European Union change. I can already say that we want Europe to be closer to its citizens and to act where it brings the greatest benefits. First of all, the reform of the European Union must be a joint project of the Member States. Integration in smaller groups, creating narrower clubs is the way to nowhere. Theoretical discussions about whether there is a need for less or more Europe have been going on for years and have brought nothing. Instead, we need to focus on a better European Union that has concrete results. Deepening the internal market, border protection, external aspects of migration - these are areas where joint action within the European Union brings the greatest benefits. On the other hand, Member States' voices, their different positions and different reception opportunities for those who really need international protection must be taken into account in the area of asylum and immigration policy. European integration should be built on the principle of cooperation between sovereign nations and states. At the same time, it is necessary to strengthen Member States' control of this process. We see, together with other countries of the European Union, the need to increase the democratic legitimacy of the Union's decision-making process by respecting the principle of subsidiarity. The role of national parliaments in the decision-making process of the European Union must also be strengthened. The real Europe is a Europe of Europeans who respect each other, listen to each other and value each other and cherish the same values. We should build a united Europe of homelands, where countries and nations have the conviction that together, on equal terms, they decide the present and future of our continent. These thesis, such a project, these proposals for reform the Polish government will propose to our European partners. Today a meeting of the Visegrad Group countries took place in Warsaw. All the representatives of the countries forming the Visegrad Group, the prime ministers who came to Warsaw so that we could agree on a joint position for the upcoming summit in Bratislava on 16 September, which will be devoted to the issues of Britain's exit from the European Union, agreed on these requests. The Visegrad Group will present a common position. The Visegrad Group wants to reform [[Applause]] The European Union. The Visegrad Group agrees that the European Union must draw lessons from Brexit and must first of all think about the future, and the future of the European Union can be an acceptable future guaranteeing the security of its citizens if it is based on the four freedoms at its heart, and if the European Union is primarily the European Union, the European Union and not the Union of the European institutions. That's the position. [[Applause]] Visegrad Group. At the summit in Bratislava, where I will also represent the Polish government, we will speak with one voice. We will offer Europe bold reforms and, above all, we will propose that these reforms should not be afraid not to be afraid of discussing the future of Europe, about its security, about our mutual cooperation. And we will pay attention to the fact that the European Union, if it is to come out of this experience of the British referendum, must undertake reforms which will, above all, respect European Parliaments, sovereignty of states and finally allow us to see that European tradition and culture comes from Christian values. [[Applause]] And this communication can help... [[Bravo!]] [[Judeo-Christian.]] ...to keep the European Union developing. Great Britain has made a decision. Today Europe is facing a great task of change. If he doesn't make that change, he may come out of this British lesson even weaker. However, I am convinced that Europe will come out of this lesson, strengthened by the fact that this reflection that we are experiencing now will strengthen it. You can say: Europo, time for change, time for a real, structural, ideological reform. Poland will be actively involved in this discussion and participate in such activities, such actions will be undertaken. The European Union must again become a safe and stable alliance for Europeans. It is time for Europeans to feel at home again in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and government representatives stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u342	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed to hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. And Mrs Izabela Kloc will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u343	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We need equality between countries in a single Europe of solidarity between national states. We need the unity of spirit and ideals that stem from our common Christian civilization. We need a return to the idea of European founding fathers Schuman, Adenauer and Gasperi. We must also talk about Brexit, but above all in terms of values. After all, the British did not say "open borders between the countries of the Union," they did not say "cooperation and freedom of movement of trade and capital." They said no because they opposed the misappropriation of the values on which the Union was founded. [[Applause]] The European Coal and Steel Community appeared as an opportunity for the peaceful economic development of countries. The Union of nations according to Schuman's idea has today changed in such a way that, in the eyes of many British people, it has become a weak Union that cannot cope with changing conditions that cannot solve the problems of today's Europeans. It is therefore hardly surprising that more than half of the British people voting in the referendum do not support the policies of the current European leaders. The exit from the Community is the withdrawal of very strong assets, which by their owners are considered unworthy of combining with toxic assets of the common Europe today. We should not only respect that, but think together about what next so that Brexit doesn't start the domino effect. The exit of the United Kingdom has certain repercussions for Europe, of course also for us, and not only because of the likely relocation of many Polish families. These are two main issues: the loss of a solid partner, which was a kind of equivalent to European weight, is, after all, the loss of a solid partner within the Union, on which Poland was quite much counting, appearing generally as a voice of reason, often aptly pointing symptom of euro overzealousness. Brexit, however, is also the exit from the Union of one of the most important economies in the world, which is at the same time an extremely important element of the NATO system in our part of the globe. So will Poland feel Brexit? I'm sure you do. How should we emphasize Polish politics and the Polish state's right? Certainly the weight of the Polish voice, despite the loss of an ally and apparent weakness, should become more important. Our vote today should be much more clear about common but equal policies, mechanisms for shaping the defence of common interests, especially in the context of energy and economic security. A few years ago we began to observe symptoms of depreciation of Polish voice. We have examples of this at our borders. Millions of tons of Russian coal enter Poland by rail, come to German and Dutch ports by barge, destroy our European mining, because Russia, by subsidising rail transport, is crowding out our indigenous coal thanks to lower, artificial prices. Unfortunately, today's Union does not respond to such issues, but it does act the other way around. We cannot impose a duty on Russian coal, but Russia could have blocked the export of Polish meat in its territory. High Izbo! It is hard to deny that one of the main motives for the UK's strong response was the issue of uncontrolled influx of refugees. [[From Poland.]] It's also a matter of security. Multiculturalism? Of course, but internal multiculturalism, based on the opening of borders, the possibility of student exchanges, free movement of labour, but within the EU countries. [[Applause]] What do we got today? Because millions in Europe are wondering why some countries in the Middle East do not choose to take in economic immigrants, encouraging them to settle in Europe. In the interests of political correctness, today we are not talking about the voices of imams denying Europeanity and promoting the right of hatred on certain banners brought to Europe. [[Imama Rydzyk.]] These people are not deported from the Union or at least sequestered today. For this reason, the citizens of the Union who have been defending their rights at home have been building Europe's prosperity for generations. [[Applause]] However, security is not just about migrants. Security is also about defending and shaping external policies. Recently, during the European Security Discussion, I heard a significant sentence: the Union implementing the common foreign policy often behaves like the European Foreign Minister on the news of the bombings. The cry of Federica Mogherini represents the weakness of the current Union. [[Did you laugh then?]] [[Don't interrupt.]] [[Stop it.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the Union that the British were expecting, this is not the Union that Poles expect, this is not the Union that millions of Europeans expect. High Izbo! The British, like many Poles, valued their own currency. Thanks to the fact that we stayed with the gold, we managed to avoid the deep crisis that affected the euro area. Today, however, we hear from the prominent politicians of the Union that the response to Brexit is to make the most important decisions that have so far been made in the country to the federal level. This greater European integration is not our consent. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] The trans-national model of European integration will only deepen the crisis and problems in Europe. The British also said not to interfere with internal policies, whose conduct is a sacred law and the duty of every democratically elected authority at national level. The Union should reveal itself through service to the national States, in line with the concept of the Schuman Union from years ago. Only such a Union today will provide us all with cooperation based on trust and loyalty. As Law and Justice, we are convinced that Poland's place is and will be in the structures of the European Union, but a Union that is wise with its diversity and equality of actors, which respects the voices of all countries, a Union that does not discriminate against new countries by imposing its narrative through the largest economies. We want a Union that will protect any Polish economy that will not collapse under different pressures. High Izbo! We've been in the Union for over 12 years. The economic crisis, geopolitical change and new challenges in the global reality are a good time to start not only a discussion but also reform measures when it comes to our participation in its structures and thus stressing the strategic position of Poland, which, as the leader of central and eastern European countries, will call for a return to the idea of Europe of homelands. We do not need new EU institutions or new uniform law. We need a real, serious, mature policy that solves European problems, instead of just handing out crayons and burning more virtual candles on social profiles. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Oh, come on, lady, with the...]] European unity requires constant efforts and building, but on the basis of the principle of cooperation between sovereign nations and states. At many international meetings, in different formats, we stress the need to strengthen Member States' control of the integration process. Ladies and gentlemen, for Europe's solidarity states, we are gaining more and more allies. As President of the Parliament's Committee on European Union Affairs, I welcome our actions from many European Union countries. Above all, we emphasise the need to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the Union's decision-making process by respecting this important principle of subsidiarity. We cannot accept the failure of the European Commission to take 11 countries into account. The last example is called: The yellow card on posted workers is very meaningful. The European Commission, Brexit, hasn't taught much yet. Fortunately, it is thanks to Brexit that many formats of European cooperation speak about strengthening the role of national parliaments in the decision-making process of the European Union. [[It is exactly the opposite, Madam Member.]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today it seems necessary to discuss the future of the European Union in greater depth, possibly completed with a concrete proposal for treaty amendments. Poland will actively participate in the renewal of our common Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u344	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u345	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The day of the referendum on which the United Kingdom decided to leave the European Union is a black day for European integration. The consequences are bad for the Union, and for the UK, also for Poland, because on many issues we were actually on the way with Great Britain. This, on the other hand, is primarily a reason for reflection and reflection, which should be a reason for reflection and reflection, and not a merely hidden satisfaction, which can sometimes be seen in the benches of Law and Justice. [[Through contact lenses.]] Surely this should not be an excuse to attack EU institutions. If you were talking about the vision of Monnet or Schuman, it was a vision of strong national states and very strong European institutions, because if it were not for these strong European institutions, this whole process would not have worked if it had not been for these strong European institutions, integration would not have developed and probably Poland would not have entered the European Union. What are you doing? You are using what happened in the UK as a pretext for attacking the EU institutions, attacking the European Commission, attacking Donald Tusk, President of the European Council. We know you from this pettyness. But what's all this for? I ask: What will this do in negotiations and how Poland is to find itself in the European Union after Brexit? [[Improving quality.]] Notabene, when it comes to Mrs Raven, because you were talking about the fact that Britain has left the European Union, because migrations, because foreign policy, because the common currency... On these three points, the United Kingdom does not participate in European cooperation because it has exceptions. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] What happened in the UK is above all the success of populists, all those people who always blame the European Union, who try to disgust it. Most of the arguments in these discussions were lying. It was obvious that these Brexit architects immediately washed their hands of what had happened, and you can see what ended with irresponsibleness. This is also the result - and this has to be made clear - of many legitimate concerns and pretensions, from which lessons have to be learned. Only now is the time to consolidate, to send a clear signal to the European Union that we need to stand together and talk about the fact that European integration is something that is extremely important to us, fundamental and of which we have the benefits, not the moment to test European integration. This isn't the time to say nothing but... [[Yeah, I didn't say anything.]] ...what we do not like about the European Union, especially since we are deprived of allies in it with the rule of law and justice. I ask: Where was the Polish diplomacy when the founding countries met, when France, Germany and Italy started working on changes? And we're doing some quick meetings that a couple of state secretaries are coming to. In our day, there were five, six of the most important countries of the European Union, [[Applause]] There were talks in the Weimar Triangle. Where's your diplomacy? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And England left. It was your success, not ours.]] [[Quiet. Don't yell.]] At the moment, there is no time to make unilateral proposals for treaty changes, especially without any allies, changes in institutional order. The Prime Minister is talking about going back to the roots. What kind of roots? The roots of the strong institutions offered by Monnet and Schuman, or just to the single market? It is just a narration of Eurosceptics that we should now return only to the single market. Is this really the measure of our ambition? This is unfortunately the inclusion in the scenario of those who want to divide the European Union into a small federalist kernel and those who are to be left on the margins of European integration. Notabene is a deadly idea, and we're trying to get your politics into this idea. [[One more resolution needs to be adopted.]] [[You need one more resolution in Poland...]] I hear all this from President Kaczyński, it is probably the sharpest voice, that there is a need for treaty changes, that the competences of the European Union need to be changed, that the European Union should not be concerned, for example. migration policy. I am simply asking: Who, in the Treaty of Lisbon, in negotiating, gave up their powers and voted unanimously turned it over to the majority when it comes to immigration policy? The problem is, if you come to the table right now with your list of demands and everyone comes with their demands... [[It's gonna fall apart.]] ...because we don't like migration policy, which is very difficult, we don't like climate policy... Someone, Germany, will say: We will not pay for the EU budget. [[But you're in the Polish Parliament, not German.]] Someone will say: We do not like the freedom to provide services. The European Union will fall apart, [[Applause]] if you make these kinds of demands, instead of thinking about how to approach what happened in the UK together. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Tell this to the French and Germans!]] The President talks about the new treaty, he says that some mysterious lawyer is writing it, probably from the very beginning. I wonder what proposals will be there, whether these proposals will push us to the full margin of the European Union. I ask: What allies do you have in writing these scenarios? Because I, outside the Visegrad Group, which is also conflicted and in which the Czechs and Slovaks do not support the directions in which you go... Where are those allies? Because Britain is no longer in the European Union. Will you continue to be alone in these fights about what the European Union is going to look like? How will you find yourselves in new coalitions, even in the European Parliament? After all, without Britain, this conservative faction will only be a hull. Whether or not you'll report an access to the EPP. That's a question I'd really like to hear the answer to. We have to draw a conclusion from Brexit, 100%. Better communication, less regulation, a greater role for national parliaments, but for this we need allies and, above all, we need to send a clear signal that at the moment we will solve the problems of the European Union in the 27 Member States. On the other hand, what you are doing, coming with your demands, the strongest of all the Member States in demanding change, will lead to the fact that you will only give arguments to those who want to share the European Union. Thanks to your as usual unprofessional policy, we will be on the complete margin of the European Union. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u346	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u347	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Honourable Members! The exit of the UK from the European Union has undermined the concept of the PiS, where London is the most important European partner. After all, law and justice changed alliances when they came to power. Minister Waszczykowski continued to say in January that we will maintain dialogue and regular consultations at various levels with the most important European partners, first of all with Great Britain. This strategy has brought disaster and today we demand a revision and a re-exposition of the foreign minister, because just the exposé of Minister Waszczykowski is no longer valid [[Applause]] And we don't know what the foreign policy of this government is. [[Preferably a new minister.]] In short, also referring to the speech by Mrs Kloc, who spoke a lot about defending European culture, Polish culture and promoting it - very often, Prime Minister Szydło talks about it - Poland abroad and promoting Polish culture, I wanted to ask Prime Minister Szydło whether Minister Błaszczak's statements about crayons or insulting us by Minister Waszczykowski... [[That's the truth.]] ... foreign partners, or statements such as Minister Zalewski's about Polish history and lying to Polish history... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Learn history.]] ...whether it is to promote Poland abroad, whether it is to promote culture abroad. [[Get up off your knees.]] [[Crayons? Great getting up off your knees.]] I fear that this strategy will have exactly the opposite effect, and we will unfortunately bear the negative consequences of this policy for the years to come. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u348	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u349	Thank you, Marshal. If you look at the path that British politicians have gone through, who have called for an exit from the Union, you can see that they have used exactly the same wretched arguments that the Prime Minister used today. It was the same finding of the guilty abroad, which turned into a hay of hatred towards Poles in the Islands, earlier Spanish, later Romanians. [[The voice from the hall: Sławek, come on.]] They talked about the costs of the United Kingdom, as the sovereignty of the United Kingdom is limited, and demanded a revision of the treaties. Doesn't that look like today's PiS rhetoric? Unfortunately for the UK, for Europe and for Poland they have convinced citizens that the Union is the cause of evil. And then after Brexit, everyone resigned. You say the British have made a sovereign decision. In your mouth, the word "supplierability" takes on a new meaning, a very sinister one. In the name of this sovereignty, ministers write insulting letters to the European Commission, which Minister Szymański, when saving the situation, calls their private correspondence. Politicians have convinced the British that freedom of trade can be drawn from, but that it is necessary to limit the ability to move around Europe. Similarly, you convince us that we can draw a handful from the EU budget, but we do not have to respect the European law that has been adopted together. You insult your political partners here in the Seym... [[Who? With what?]] ...with whom you later sit at one table during the European Council. Do you think they don't see it, they don't hear it, they didn't write down how you clapped to the British Eurosceptics in Europarlament? [[You don't read well what they say.]] And today President Kaczyński was very committed to Mr Winnicki's speech. How can we not be afraid of your true declarations if President Kaczyński fets Mr Winnicki? [[Why? He's an envoy.]] Did you react when Minister Błaszczak insulted Mrs Mogherini when he disgraced the Polish government by pointing out tears to the French the day after the drama in Nice? Can such a government be taken seriously? Will you be a partner for your French counterpart, Minister Błaszczak? How did you and the Prime Minister express their responsibility for a common European project? I wish Poland that you will not be able to convince Poles that the country that creates us PiS is the backbone of democracy, and the European Union is a foreign and oppressive institution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which violates our rights because it's exactly the opposite, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u350	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u351	I also wish you discretion not to go down the road... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Don't lie to me!]] [[It's a weak performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. Excuse me, Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u353	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I stand here and wipe my eyes. You must, our friends from the SLD from Miller, the Freedom Union from Geremek and you from the Platform from Tusk, understand that something important has happened. Your whole rhetoric, this figure built on our Polish... [[So careful with those friends.]] ...comprehensions that we Poles must learn that we must be in this European Union, has just collapsed because a free British nation... [[There is no British nation.]] [[He's here.]] ...in a normal European debate, he showed that you are wrong. The European Union has changed. This is not the European Union of nations, prosperity, normal economy, exchange between nations. She went on very bad paths and the British, a normal free nation, confirmed it. Now you must understand this: one of the most important countries of the European Union is already outside the European Union. This is a big problem for you. Most importantly, the decision was made within the framework of the British sovereign, free choice, in a referendum, i.e. it won democracy, what you always called for. It's me, the national democrat, I'm glad that democracy just won there. [[Applause]] Today, the European Union has changed, I have already emphasised that. London started a debate not only internal but also general. And what did he tell us in this debate? No more euro-waste, no more Brussels dictation over national states. We do not want such a euro area, and we want our own national currencies. We don't want a multi-culti dictation, we don't want such a terrible immigration policy. These points are very much, they were very strongly shown. What did the British say? We want Europe, the European Union of innovation, we want to catch up with world economies. You have to understand this: it was a debate. And actually, you guys aren't adapted to it, you've been saying... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Ready.]] ...about our complexes, you were the ones who told us how to live our lives. The British have shown otherwise. And now: utopian aspirations of the Eurocrats, i.e. Juncker, Schulz and others have shown the British that it is impossible for them to stay longer in the European Union. We Eurorealists, endecs, have warned against this for a long time. [[Endecs...]] A plan to build a European superstate with a flag, with an anthem, with a European army, with a European currency. For many Eurocrats in Brussels it is a mission and a purpose of life, but it is realized at the expense of democracy - at the expense of democracy. For example, use the words of Juncker, who criticized David Cameron for distributing the referendum. After all, the referendum is a tool for decision-making by the nation, which is the most important tool. Now so: the Peleton of the world's economies is still moving away from us, and the Brussels Eurocrats, instead of reforming Europe instead of returning to their roots, prefer to talk about deepening integration, prefer to impose a multi-culti dictatorship and claim that the biggest threat to Europe is the investigation into the power of the parties referring to national ideas. And yet these are our roots, this is our European identity. All indications are that there will be a domino effect, that it will go further. We were also talking about a referendum in the Netherlands, and we were talking about the fact that in many countries the trend of eurorealism goes up. And that's positive for Europe, that's the reformer effect, not backwards, that's going forward to build a strong Europe of free nations. Now, at the end. Of course, there are some challenges for our government, for our diplomacy. There is a matter of the status of Poles in the UK. I believe that our government, Prime Minister, our Foreign Minister, is already talking to the British side, so that our citizens, who are now living in the UK, can ensure very good conditions. And the second point - I hope that the diplomatic services will bring London into a policy direction that will counterbalance the destructive trends in Europe. This is the direction we should be, our diplomacy should, today, support. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u354	Thank you. [[Bravo!]] Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, also from the Kukiz Poselski Club15, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u355	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Civic Platform! Your foreign policy collapsed in 2011 when Minister Sikorski went to Germany and paid his homage there, and asked Berlin to rule Europe without consulting the Polish people. So we were already dealing with [[Applause]] With the defeat of foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, not today. The Prime Minister said that she was after talking to the newly appointed Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Mrs Theresa May. We are very pleased that this conversation declared that the acquired rights of the citizens of the Republic of Poland will be respected in the Islands as long as the United Kingdom operates within the European Union. On the other hand, the Polish government is obliged to make every effort to ensure that these rights are respected even when the United Kingdom leaves the structures of the European Union in real terms. Poles in the Islands are a group of honest and hardworking citizens and it is our duty to make every effort to ensure that these rights continue to be respected, because Poles in the Islands are also building the strength of the economy of Great Britain and deserve to have the best conditions for a decent functioning there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u356	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Prime Minister, don't worry about what the Members of the Civic Platform say, because they now have very important internal problems and do not know who their undertaker is. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Don't comment.]] Back to the story, as my predecessor has already said, the citizens in the referendum... [[You're so impressed.]] [[Oh, dear... the shadows.]] ...citizens in a referendum can overthrow many elites if the elite forgets what citizens need and thinks of themselves. And in the UK, please pay attention... [[Do you want to go under the breathalyzer, sir?]] [[Anytime.]] ...the citizens of the province, the citizens of Wales, the citizens of the small British towns, not London, have overthrown the system, overthrow the elite, the British establishment and have shown them that they do not wish to continue to communicate with the elites of the European Union. The UK is to be independent, independent and to return to its roots, and the British roots are British, Anglo-Saxon conservatism, Anglo-Saxon free market, Margaret Thatcher, who introduced Britain into the European Union, was very skeptical and long negotiated conditions. Now there is nothing left of these conditions, so Britain has returned to its roots. And it's going to be a few years from now, in a dozen years, we're going to find out who's right, who's going to grow faster, who's going to be a vibrant country and who's going to rot at the rate of 1 as the European Union does, who will be one of the most indebted countries with catastrophic demographics, without value, with falling families, because this is the picture of today's European Union. If we asked the people of France, if we asked the people of the Netherlands, what would they say today? The same as the British. But these cowardly elites of the European Union will not ask their citizens whether they want to continue in such a European Union. [[Applause]] And perhaps it is time that countries such as Poland, which have passed communism, which have undergone totalitarianism, this new kind of totalitarianism, this new kind of worthless ideas, which rely only on taking as much money as possible in the European Parliament, which has nothing to say, resist and draw others behind them. Britain will no longer help us in the Union to fight bureaucracy, to fight waste, to fight political correctness, but we are building, I hope, a new front, the Visegrad Front. I hope that's enough, and if not, we'll do a referendum. We in Kukiz.15 have a soft spot for referenda, so we'll be happy to help. [[Applause]] Finally, note the migrants. Ladies and gentlemen, there would be no problem for emigrants if the demographic imbalance between the countries of the European Union and countries outside the European Union, especially the Middle East. And the easiest way to tackle immigration problems would be to rebuild family values and solve natural growth problems in the European Union, but no country because of political correctness He doesn't even make such conversations, such solutions. The only countries in the European Union that drew attention to this are Hungary Viktor Orbán and Poland and the Government of PiS. I was criticizing the 500+ program, but still. Therefore, in conclusion of the debate, I will say that perhaps we will meet here in three or four years, and we will. [[♪ The bell ♪]] make the same decision as the British, wondering whether to remain in the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u358	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Richard Petru will now speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome. [[Something about Africa, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I listened to Mrs Kloc, I saw that you just don't like the current European Union very much. As I heard the Prime Minister, it was just the resentment that this European Union is horrible. I have a question: What happens if the Union does not really change? Will you, like Kukiz, 15, propose a referendum? [[Not in this part of the debate.]] [[It's gonna rot.]] Will you propose to leave the European Union because you do not like this current Union, which Poles joined by voting in a referendum? Tell me the truth that you're in there. wrong and do a referendum if that's what you want. [[This isn't the kind of union we fought for.]] I'm sorry to say what happened to Brexit, that Brexit is a failure of the government. The Prime Minister said... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[No, he's a success for the government.]] [[He's right.]] The failure of the government's foreign policy, or I'll remind you... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Look how strong the Prime Minister is.]] [[To school.]] [[Rysiek, you hit it again.]] ...that your main ally in the European Union was to be Britain. Minister Waszczykowski spoke from this speaker a few months ago and said that he was a strategic ally of the Polish government in the European Union. [[Failure...]] He's not in the European Union right now or he's about to leave. The question is, what about your foreign policy? Prime Minister, it would be decent to admit defeat in such a situation. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Rysiek, you're laughing at yourself.]] Mr. Marshal, can you silence your friends from the PiS? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Effectively, Marshal, not like this. Effectively. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Then you'll have to bring another bell.]] Let's face it, you didn't expect this Brexit at all. [[Go to the Caribbean.]] And the question is, why are you ignoring this? Is that stupid or cheating? That's my question to the Prime Minister. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Don't be ridiculous.]] Let me remind you that one day Minister Waszczykowski announced that we had stopped Brexit that he would not be there. This shows how effective your policy is. It's just funny. It's embarrassing what you're doing because you don't really know what's going on. The question is: What offer do you have for those Poles who will return from Britain to Poland? What are you gonna offer them? [[Credits in francs.]] [[Voice from the hall: Definitely not in francs.]] [[Would you take credits in pounds?]] A raise for your own? Posts in Treasury companies? It's gone, isn't it? You've already filled it all. Smolensk appeals at every celebration? Chaos in education, which you have been introducing since 2017? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. Marshal, why don't you buy yourself a bigger bell because it doesn't work on them. Jumping into our savings at OFE? Legal chaos? The decline in investments of Polish companies, which have negative investment dynamics in the first quarter? The language of hate? No personal culture? Is that what you're gonna offer to the Poles who are coming back? [[Are you talking about yourself?]] [[Retirement at 67, maybe 70.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say that the current government has a deep concern about creating new jobs. He is not interested in improving the lives of Poles at all. From this point of view, let's face it, you're not prepared. You do nothing to ensure that those Poles who wish to return to Poland have a chance here for a decent life. Ladies and gentlemen, Brexit is, of course, primarily weakening Britain, but also weakening the European Union because Britain is losing its exit. We should do everything we can to ensure that this UK exit is as painful as possible for the whole European Union and for Poland, so we should support the option that would be close to Norwegian. I'll explain to those who need it. [[We've got to change the oil.]] The point is that the UK would still pay a high premium but could participate in the single market. In the single market... [[Rysiek, why don't you go see them?]] [[And that's where he stayed.]] We are not on you, sir, and I don't think we will, I feel something, after how you behave. The aim is to minimise the costs of Brexit for the UK, for the European Union. [[The student of Balcerowicz.]] And it should be our strategy to make this Brexit as least invasive as possible for the European Union. Let us remember that the UK will lose because the European Union must send out a strong signal. Those who want to leave the European Union will lose heavily. I am sorry to say that Mr Kaczyński's dreams are ridiculous in Europe. Talking about changing treaties? They're really banging on the head. [[And you're not just funny in Europe.]] Ladies and gentlemen, no treaties will change, they have other problems on their mind. If someone sits on Żoliborz and does not contact anyone, he invents changes to treaties that he has not even written yet. I read in one of the newspapers that President Kaczyński asked some lawyer, but he doesn't know what, yet, he doesn't know if he'll agree to write a treaty change for him. [[Where's your loan in francs?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an effective policy, because the European Union is not discussing amending the Treaties now. [[Voice from the room: Then let him start discussing.]] If you're polite to the president, tell him that's not the subject. The Prime Minister was in Brussels, and she didn't seem to care about changing the treaties. I don't know if you had the approval of President Kaczyński or if you hadn't already known how to change these treaties. [[Who do you serve?]] I ask you, instead of disintegration and instead of a federal Europe, we should promote an effective Europe. What does that mean? For example, it is also such an appeal to Minister Błaszczak to talk about it, instead of 27 anti-terrorist policies, one coherent, effective one. Terrorists move between countries, there must be one system, very effective. We should help them, they should help us to fight terrorism, we must not lose responsibility, like Minister Błaszczak, for the French for the terrorist attack. That was an unworthy statement from the minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the European Union, which effectively protects its borders when we have a situation that Greece is unable to protect borders from the influx of migrants, that is when the European Union, within the framework of Frontex, should act together at the entire border of the European Union. An effective European Union is one that quickly imposes sanctions, e.g. Russia, when it is needed, and there is no monthly discussion. [[Yeah, yeah. Fairy tales.]] This is the European Union, which is close to people and shows what the benefits are, because then, when Britain leaves the European Union, it suddenly turns out that it was not worth it. They don't know what to do, they can't even start negotiations because they're completely unprepared for them. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union, in which, in addition to the movement of persons, there is a movement of services. You should fight for it. For this, Prime Minister, we should fight so that Poles can offer their services throughout the European Union, because of this is growth, economic growth, jobs. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Let's give them our tribunal.]] Congratulations on your personal culture to the representatives of the PiS. Real respect, gentlemen. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Ad rem.]] [[For respect for the ethics committee.]] One more thing. We must fight to ensure that there are no barriers in the European Union that Germany is introducing a minimum wage for carriers or the French. This is the European Union we should fight for. Ladies and gentlemen, we want the European Union to be stronger than it is now. You want, in fact, to bring Poland out of the European Union mentally. [[Sit down.]] I hope that no madmen in Poland will come to mind to do so. I see that some Members have these ideas, and I'll stress that from Kukiz15, right? [[You want some water?]] Ladies and gentlemen, from the government, frankly, I didn't expect anything. I have the impression that the Polish government does not represent the Polish society on matters of Poland's clearly being in the European Union. We will be the voice of Poles in this matter. I'll remind you, 80%. Poles are in favour of Poland staying in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's weak. Two down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u360	Still on behalf of the Modern Club, Mrs Marta Golbik. You're welcome. [[The voice from the hall: For sluts and mirabelles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u361	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I must say that your behaviour is precisely showing your attitude towards the European Union, and that is what we see all the time, it is quite frivolous. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: He, he, he.]] That's what I'm talking about. Mr Tarczyński has been chewing gum in benches since the beginning. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[And Rysiek kept his hand in his pocket.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u362	Please, sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u363	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must say that I was very surprised at the beginning, but then I remembered what reality we were in. There were no details today. I thought that's why this debate was here, so that we could hear anything specific from the Prime Minister. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Listen with your ear, not with your belly.]] We haven't heard anything, which is like always. I'm gonna focus on strategy... [[If you didn't hear anything, there's nothing to focus on.]] ...what government can take in the situation we're in after Brexit. The first strategy, passive and passive actions, i.e. when the government discusses how to respond to events, only when these events are revealed. The representative of this strategy and the announcement of this strategy is Minister Witold Waszczykowski, who in the Committee on European Union Affairs spoke about the fact that it is worth waiting for developments to take place, that we will react, that we will see, wait and then act. This will strengthen the concept of a two-speed Europe not only on economic but also on political ground, because a passive attitude will mean that these highly integrated countries will make decisions, and we will be communicated with them. [[So far so good.]] [[So it's been bad so far. So that's what we need to change?]] The second strategy is pro-active action and the expression of these actions is the statements by President Jarosław Kaczyński about taking up a diplomatic offensive, which will culminate in the new European Treaty. We do not know anything about the new European Treaty, we hear about this European Treaty without specifics. The President is talking about the need to radically clarify European Union rules. Is it possible to clarify everything? What should we focus on? Together, we need to choose the issues that we care most about, which are the most important from the point of view of Poland. The last strategy, the third strategy is a sham, the most dangerous strategy, the expression of which is the Prime Minister's statement that it is necessary to talk, there comes a time of reflection, without any concrete details, as I said, and these are actions similar to those of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's how you act so you don't do anything. We're afraid the last strategy will win. We encourage active activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u364	Thank you very much, Member. Now Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u365	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, the European Union has become a community of fear, fear for the present, fear for the future, fear for strangers. This fear is not alien to Poles and here, in the country and in the Islands, but we cannot allow this fear to paralyze us. Today in the European Union, Europe lacks the courage to face the challenges, the challenges facing the Union. The answer to these challenges is not the proposal by the Germans or the French to have more union in the Union, but it is certainly not the answer either. If you think these treaties are gonna be written by someone other than Germany and the French, then you're deeply mistaken. He will be written under their dictation, and for us he may only be worse, or he may be unacceptable. It may happen that this new treaty you are proposing will keep us in the hallway. And we will no longer be invited to the European Union. Brexit showed that the British lost faith in the European project. They're not the only ones. Radicalism comes to voice in the next Member States, radicals present simple recipes for today's fears of Europeans. But these are fake prescriptions. Is our answer, really our only answer, because only this concrete one we have heard, to be another treaty written by the Eurocrats? It will not dispel any fears, it will only give more fuel for radicals, for radicalism and will destroy the European project. The Prime Minister spoke today, as always, about dialogue, about listening to citizens. Only beautiful words do not follow actions. Because whether this dialogue, this conversation and this listening to citizens is supposed to take place in the same way as in Opole and the surrounding municipalities, where 96% The citizens were in favour of staying in their communities, and you still included them in Opole? That's it. listening to citizens? And in this case, you want to apply one too. You talk about sovereignty, you demand sovereignty from the European Union, and in Poland you take sovereignty from local governments. [[Applause]] Is this your prescription for the future? In fact, today we have not heard from the Prime Minister what future the Polish government wants for the European Union. [[You should have listened.]] But maybe paradoxically. this is better, because this response must be forged in dialogue, but not between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but in such a popular dialogue. People's and people's dialogue, involving citizens, trade unions, employers, self-government. I would like to propose that President Piotr Duda, Head of the Social Dialogue Council, convene this body and that employers, trade unions with invited local governmentmen, representatives of social movements, citizens discuss the situation of the European Union. We must not leave the matter to the future of Europe to politicians alone. They're going to write the treaties you're proposing again, under the dictation of civil servants. And officials and politicians will not re-attach the European Union. It's too serious to leave her in the hands of politicians. We need to appeal to the people's voice. After Brexit, we all know, and I think we appreciate the words of the Holy Father John Paul. II, who said that the future of the European Union would not secure the market or the economy. They must safeguard it with the values that the Union has unfortunately left. And this disappointment came not only to Britain, but to many European countries. The pact of Europeans must be re-established, not the Treaty of Eurocrats. That's the difference between us. [[Something like that, I love you!]] We must return to the values on which the European Union was built, to the foundations, to the three symbolic hills: to the Greek Acropolis, which gave culture, to the Roman Capitol, which gave Roman law, and to the Jerusalem Golgotha, which gave Christian values. Without a return to value, the European Union cannot be renewed. And in all this, you can't look for a shortcut. The new Europe will not be created at once or in its entirety. It can only arise in an action that first builds genuine solidarity. Today we need a pact of Europeans, unity and the European community, a pact based on solidarity and respect for the universal values on which the Union has been established. Only on the basis of them can we rebuild the community. This is the only way we can overcome the fear and fear of the future with Europeans. Poles want to be in the European Union, they want to be in the Union also voters of the PiS - even more than voters of the Civic Platform, because according to the latest survey of 4 July 80% PiS voters support European integration and Platform voters support 75%. [[Exactly.]] You need to listen to that voice. Poles want to be in the European Union more than when they enter the European Union. 83/84% Poles want to be in the European Union. At the time of the referendum it was 77%. We need our effectiveness, we need smart and smart ideas, and we need more treaties that will bureaucratise the European Union today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u366	Thank you very much. Still on behalf of the Polish People's Party Posel Club - Mr Marek Sawicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It's a good thing we're having this discussion today. It is a pity that in such an atmosphere of dispute, a dispute more political than a contentious dispute. The fact that Britain has decided in a referendum... [[We're not arguing, you're arguing.]] ...about Brexit, about going out, there are deep grounds for that. The European Union has, over the past few years, or perhaps several years, been very far removed from the original assumptions and has been very strongly subject to the dictatorship of Brussels bureaucrats. European politicians were unable to face this bureaucracy and to make European citizens increasingly dependent on those very specific regulations that have de facto been incapacitated. not only the Member States, but also the individual citizens. Today, instead of just throwing ourselves over political responsibility, we should all, regardless of which part of the political scene we come from in this room, think about what to do, how to prepare for the discussion in the face of Brexit. I'm just going to mention this one financial element. In 2014, the total contribution to the European Union budget of all Member States amounts to around EUR 133 billion, of which 10% was a British contribution. I will also remind you that, in all this, there is also a common agricultural policy, which is about 40%. If at the moment we are not skilfully negotiating - and in my opinion it is not enough only the Visegrad Group, but most importantly the Weimar Triangle extended by the voice of Italy, the voice of Spain - it is indeed also the economy, and Polish agriculture can lose a lot. Please note that the UK exported goods to the European market for less than EUR 16 billion, Poland - for almost 25. Great Britain is also a net importer of food. 40% The supply of food in the UK is imported, including almost EUR 2 billion, which is imports from Poland. [[Voice from the hall: So what?]] So we need to think together about how to bridge the budget gap or how to reduce budget expenditure in connection with Brexit and preserve the economic cohesion of the European Union, so as not to weaken Poland's economic position, because it is a fact that during these 12 years of membership Poland, the Polish economy, is actually not only benefiting, but above all, using, developing. And what is important is that the NATO summit, the United Kingdom, has recently taken place, deciding to leave the European Union, will not leave Europe, will not leave the islands, and so the security and defence of Europe will continue in agreement with the United Kingdom and the UK's participation in Europe's economy will be very important. But if we do not sit together, we will not develop a position and we will also move to the forum, whether it be the European Parliament or the Council of Europe or the European Commission, with various internal disputes concerning Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is really nothing good for Poland or Europe from such chaos.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u368	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u369	I look forward to the government's work, on the part of the Prime Minister, coordinating such a paper... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...a common Polish position. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u370	Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u371	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarnia Circle adopted the result of the British referendum as a reason for deep reflection. We want to build a great European Union that upholds peace, international order and the rule of law. The UK's decision to leave the Union undermines our common opportunities. The whole of Europe, and especially the authorities in Brussels, should read this warning. The citizens of one of the world's most powerful countries, with a huge democratic tradition, expressed a vote of distrust in the current shape of the Union and the way the Union is going. Will this serious warning be the reason for the EU's policy being re-evaluated? The British do not agree to deep interference in their management and their customs. That's what they're all about, the Poles, the close ones. Brexit should be aware of our power, our opposition and our entire society's importance of independence. We believe that the great British people have not said the last word that there will be changes in the Union that will make the English change their decision. We hope for a return that will strengthen Europe and bring our homelands even closer together. We are in favour of European solidarity between people and nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u372	Thank you very much. Now Mr Robert Winnicki, an independent Member. Mr President, you still have about 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u373	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There is no time to mourn the roses when the forests are burning, there is no time to mourn Britain when the EU prison of nations is falling apart, and in this prison of nations has changed the European Union to no other than Brussels bureaucrats. Ladies and gentlemen, Brexit has triggered an impulse and this impulse is going all over Europe. The way the European Union will fall is only a matter of time and methods, i.e. If it rots in its present shape... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ...or when the Eurocrats want to tighten the screw, it'll fall apart with a bang. That's the perspective. That is why what Poland should be doing today is preparing for times where there will be a need for large expenditure on arms, protection in the economy where bilateral relations with the countries of Europe will have to be shaped, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And in which we will have to return to the Border Guard...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u374	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u375	...on Oder, Nysa Lusatianka and in the mountains.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u376	Thank you. Mr Jan Klawiter, an independent Member, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u377	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Position of the Right of the Republic. The British referendum deprives us of an important ally in the European Union. At the same time, it confirms clearly several truths which must be taken into account by the policy of the Republic of Poland in the new conditions. Firstly, the European Union has been on the wrong path for years. On this path, which was clearly defined by the Treaty of Lisbon. It was this treaty that strengthened the powers of the Union's authorities towards the states. It was this treaty that demoted Poland and the countries of Central Europe for the Forum of the European Council. It is this treaty, accepting the ideology of the so-called. non-discrimination has strengthened the Union's fight against the natural foundations of Christian civilization. Both great parties are responsible for this treaty, with such enthusiasm against each other on a daily basis. Poland did not have to agree to the Lisbon deformity of the European Union. A free state does not have to conclude treaties, and the European Union is based on treaties concluded, not on forcing the conclusion of successive treaties. That's why she's a union of states. Unfortunately, imposibilism in our foreign policy is even worse than in the exercise of sovereign powers of the state within. In the latter case, we have often heard: There is no way to create the right legal instruments to pursue the common good and remove evil from social life. In this first case, where it was the exercise of the sovereignty of the state outside, it is even worse, because here every now and then we hear that not so much we lack legal instruments, but that we cannot use those which Poland obviously has. That attitude has to stop. The right hand of the Republic reminds that a good change in European policy must mean not only the removal from the rule of the old power, but also the abandonment of old errors by the new power. We should all call out: No more Lisbon. Secondly, the UK's departure is proof that Europe does not come down to the European Union, nor even to the claims of its current management. The Atlantic Alliance will remain a key factor in collective security and the United Kingdom will remain our key ally in NATO, as will Norway and, at least today, Turkey. Thirdly, the British referendum is proof that nations are free from the process of European integration, can participate in it, can maintain an independent or critical position towards it. Poland must first of all take a stand on its own within the European Union. The right of the Republic of Poland has been demanding for years a clear declaration by the public authorities that the change in the nature of the monetary union after the adoption of the stabilisation act, and especially the fiscal act, deprives all Treaty grounds of demanding Poland to abandon our national currency. It is time to say clearly: We want to keep the gold, we will not give up our national currency. Art. 227 constitutions are untouchable. [[You have to follow the whole thing.]] Unfortunately, today I regret to say that the spirit of Lisbon continues and continues to break up the European Union, not by its critics, but by its authorities. Who of the authorities of the European Union will be responsible for her bad policy? We were most astonished and depressed by the government's agreement to the homosexual conclusions of the Council of the European Union of 16 June 2016. The government boasts that it has written a note about the integrity of the powers and laws of the states. You confirm anti-family standards, sign the ideology and language of the political homosexual movement, and bring universal ethical standards to the order of local custom. Prime Minister, courage. Once again, we appeal to you: Defend Christian civilization in a European forum. Poland should be a spokesman for the Christian opinion in Europe. That's where we'll find the surest support and understanding. Defend this heritage, of which the introduction to our constitution speaks. That's why you've been chosen, and that's your duty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u378	Thank you very much. The President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło, will now speak. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u379	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try on a few points to address the statements made by your Members. First of all, I would like to say that Poland will pursue an active and courageous policy. We will have our own opinion and we will propose our own solutions, because this is how we understand the interests of the Republic of Poland and Polish citizens. We won't be afraid, we won't be afraid... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...to make your own proposals. The consultations will continue in Warsaw in the following weeks. There will be representatives of different countries coming here, we will meet and we will work on new solutions for Europe. We are the same member as the other 27 countries of the European Union. [[Applause]] There is no reason, there is no reason for Poland to accept solutions that are prepared in some small exclusive groups. This is the division of Europe. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We want a stable Europe, we want a Europe that treats its members in the same way. I propose that opposition politicians be less skeptical. [[He, he, he.]] Poland is still among the 27 Member States of the European Union. There is no wider range in the European Union than the 27 countries of the European Union at the moment. We are among them. We are in this group, we are a country that conducts an individual policy, we are a country that is focused on finding constructive and pragmatic solutions. We believe that this model of the European Union, which was before Brexit, has not worked out, and this awareness has already been made in Europe by everyone, perhaps beyond the policies of the Civic Platform, who still want the same European Union. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The exposé of Minister Witold Waszczykowski is still valid and will be valid. Great Britain is and will be a strategic partner for Poland. [[Applause]] The UK wants to cooperate not only with Poland, but also with the European Union. And the politicians of the Civic Platform, I think they want Britain to ban it. Great Britain remains in Europe. It will be outside the European Union, but it is still in Europe. [[Applause]] There was talk of loneliness here. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, talk about the loneliness of Poland on the day when three prime ministers, our partners from the region, arrived in Warsaw, this is actually quite a bold thesis, so to speak, but this is of course your opinion. We don't value you for better or worse. We believe that all members of the European Union have the same rights. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] For me, for the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, the voice of the Prime Minister of the Hungarian, Slovak, Czech and German government is equally important. They're the same voices, just as important. [[Applause]] Today we also adopted a statement in which, as I said in my speech, we agreed on the directions that we will propose to the European Union, all of us together. We will also invite other countries that are interested in such a discussion. When a joint statement was made at the last Council summit, Poland's position was also included. This is loneliness? I do not understand what group of countries you still expect Poland to be able to present its proposals. Today, the voice of Poland is very seriously taken into account in the discussion about the European Union. Please refer to the statements of the last summit and read the records that have been included there. This is also the position of Poland. We have an active policy in the region and we will pursue it more widely. It was said in this statement - I want to go back to the statement that was adopted today by the Visegrad Group - we very clearly stressed in it that we want a European Union not divided, we want the European Union as broad as possible, we want to defend the common market, we want to solve migration issues outside the European Union and we want initiatives that unite rather than divide, we want to strengthen national parliaments. Yes. [[Applause]] The voice of the Visegrad Group states, but most of all the voice of Poland, is today that Poland wants to change the European Union, wants the European Union to be strong so that the European Union can unite and not divide, but it is not the same European Union that has been so far, and everyone is aware of it. Today, such a discussion is taking place on this subject. The European institutions were mentioned here. Of course, I would also like them to be strong European institutions, but strong European institutions serving Europeans, not Brussels technocrats. [[Applause]] To be the European institutions that treat their members equally... [[Voice from the room: All of them.]] ...which treats everyone equally, not those that only take decisions that are good for one, chosen, narrow group of interests or groups of countries, and reject the interests of others. We do not want such European institutions. How to treat e.g. the decisions of the European Commission, those of Mrs Isabella Kloc? 11 countries, 11 parliaments of the Member States of the European Union have opposed the solutions that have been introduced against the posting of workers. The European Commission rejects it, ignores it. And when? After Brexit. No conclusions, no reflection. European officials sitting in the European Commission, in the European institutions, think that it will continue to be the same as it was. It won't be the same. [[Applause]] This is what the Europeans are talking about today. Europeans have said that they are sick of such a European Union. This is, of course, a British referendum, but earlier a referendum in the Netherlands, which rejected the agreement with Ukraine, these are events that take place in many Member States of the European Union, protests, dissatisfaction, crisis. The European Union is balancing today from crisis to crisis. Is this effective management? Is that troubleshooting? This is merely shifting these problems to future dates in order to preserve this ossified system of Brussels bureaucracy, which does not serve Europeans. That's what we're discussing today. We want change, yes, Poland wants change. [[Applause]] There was talk of the free movement of services. It is precisely the free movement of services, among others. eliminated by such European institutions, which conduct such policies with irresponsible and bad decisions. Are we supposed to accept this? We're supposed to agree with that? No, we won't agree. We want another European policy. We want these European institutions to actually act as their competences have been defined, among others. in the treaties, and as the founding fathers wished, and as the founding fathers said. Today it is not Poland or countries that have the same view of these problems that have some ideas not from this land, but the pathologists have been affected by the European institutions and that needs to be changed. And that can be changed. [[Applause]] In the statements of the politicians of the Civic Platform there was a thread of European funds and it was possible to get the impression that you were afraid of losing money from the European Union. Of course, these measures are very important, they are the basis of the policies that are being pursued. They are to achieve the goals that the European Union has adopted on its banners, but money is not everything. Freedom and sovereignty of the Polish government will not sell for money. [[Applause]] There was also talk about the need to act effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say that if this is a charge that Poland does not work effectively and refers to Frontex as an example of action, it is a completely misguided argument, because it is Poland that works in this way. We are active in supporting all these actions to protect the borders of the European Union, helping to solve migration problems beyond the borders of the European Union, and this is a position that I can say today - I say this without satisfaction, but it is the diagnosis that my political environment, which the Law and Justice put in place in the previous term, has been working since the beginning, and the Polish government has proposed such a solution - today it is the Polish right that wins in the European Union, not the right of those who have thoughtlessly, without thinking, but only in the name of political correctness, who have led an irresponsible migration policy that sets Europe on fire today. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] I'm going to repeat the specifics that I presented because it seems to me that many of you may not have listened... [[Voice from the room: It didn't want to.]] ...or maybe you wrote your speeches before I gave mine. [[Or German translations.]] So I will remind you of the concrete actions that have already been taken by the Polish government in terms of Brexit himself. In the country, we set up an inter-ministerial team, set up a working group of the permanent committee for European affairs, launched a broad public consultation. Representatives of different backgrounds will be invited to these public consultations: entrepreneurs, employers, social organisations, local organisations, all those who have or may have any problems as a result of Brexit. We are preparing and developing a program for Poles who would like to return to Poland after Brexit. But I also want to repeat that we want Poles to return to Poland because Poland is an attractive, safe country, which allows for a decent life, not because someone limits their rights. The rights of Poles abroad Polish government will always guard, that is our priority. [[Applause]] As regards foreign policy, intergovernmental consultations, Visegrad Group meeting, regional consultations - there will be further meetings to be held in Warsaw. At the moment, both Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr.Waszczykowski, Minister of Szymański, and the other ministers of our government in the field of their departments are engaged in the talks. It happens all the time. On the other hand, you are asking about the Treaty and you are talking about the Treaty. Let us not be afraid to talk about treaty changes in the European Union. When the European Union was created, when discussions about the shape of the European Union were born, there were also discussions about what security policy should look like, economic policy, what the common market should look like, what we want. Common goals and directions were sought. And today is exactly the same moment. If we remain on the same principles as the European Union so far, if we only carry out the process of leaving the United Kingdom from the European Union, if we lead the European Union to share... And it is not Poland today which organizes some meetings to play other members of the European Union. Poland today talks about unity, Poland today talks about the fact that 27 countries need to develop a joint project, a new project of the European Union. [[Applause]] We are not the ones who invite the sides, quietly, quietly politicians, one or the other, to consult and think about how to keep our interests. No. We are talking today about the need for stabilisation and, above all, the need to talk in a group of 27 countries. And I have the impression that most countries understand that and that's how most countries want to pursue politics. On the other hand, all those who try to build a Europe of different speeds who try to create different kinds of clubs, more or less elite, who in this way want to protect their own interests, do not think about the future of Europe, do not think about the future of Europeans, just and only think about what to do to preserve the influence they have had so far, and to preserve the privileges they have had so far. Today is the moment when the European Union can take decisions that will actually build a secure, just entity, which is the European Union, where all members are equally respected, where the interests of all members are represented, where the voice of everyone counts the same, or if we do not use this moment, the European Union will become a marginal entity that will not fight, it will not be a global partner, which will be divided, divided. And I think that if such a course is adopted, then it will be countries like the United Kingdom that will benefit from it, and they will be able to say: it was our right decision. We need to do everything we can today so that there is no temptation in other countries to make sure that there are other exits to be further divisions, divisions. But this can only be achieved if there is a sensible, peaceful policy aimed at the well-being of Europeans and of all Member States, which will be geared towards Europe's security. Today, security is lacking in Europe in a broad sense. European policy, European Union policy must be effective. By saying that we want more Europe in Europe, we really will not solve anything. [[Applause]] Today we want to say yes. [[Bravo.]] We want subjectivity in the European Union, in the European Union, which, if it respects its members, if it respects the freedoms at its core, which will treat the priorities expressed by the individual Member States in the same way, will respect the decisions of the national parliaments, then the European Union will win. Otherwise, the European Union will lose. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u380	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Now, let's get to the questions. Thirty-six ladies and gentlemen of Members joined the floor, 33. It's gone. I'm closing the list of people who've been saved for questions. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Joann Lichock, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u381	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I wanted to bring the subject of this debate a little bit to such a practical dimension of the possible exit of the UK from the European Union as regards the interests of Poles in the Islands. And I wanted to ask about Polish students. A large group of Poles are studying in the UK. No wonder Britain is a country in Europe that has probably the most universities in the top ranking of universities in the world. And it would be good if those rights that they have right now, which is the same college fees as for the citizens of the UK, could somehow be preserved. And I would like to ask if there is a possibility that, in bilateral talks with London, we will have the assurance that the same rights for those students who are currently studying as well as those who will want to study in the coming years will be maintained. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u382	Thank you very much, Member. Ladies and gentlemen, I will observe time discipline because we are very late. [[But in the case of all Members, not just the chosen ones?]] [[Only the chosen.]] [[Each Member shall be elected. There are no others.]] Please, Mr Marek Grunkled, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course it was naive to announce Britain as a strategic partner. Perhaps if it were an extra partner, it wouldn't be a mistake. But the whole problem is that you have a different opinion within the Visegrad Group and it opposes those mechanisms that are. The Prime Minister spoke about unity, but the Visegrad Group itself is trying to force its own position. Well, either there's gonna be unity or there's gonna be camps. And I think the Weimar Triangle, from which we came out, is the place where we can work out a common position in the situation after Brexit. I wanted to ask what other than to take these measures, because the Prime Minister said that she was in constant contact with the British authorities, she was going to make a government to counter the anti-European and anti-Polish moods. In addition, you are so easily accused of recklessness in migration policy, you are easily referring to Christian values, so I wanted to ask: What Christian values they cause, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't think...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u384	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u385	...you want to accept $6.5,000. refugees? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u386	The question is asked by Mr Jacek Wilk from the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u387	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Brexit and the events related to it show what people themselves have seen for many years, namely that either the European Union is going to reform deeply, to limit itself, or to fall apart. It once benefited, mainly as the European Economic Community, now as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is a zone of one great permanent financial, economic, social, demographic crisis. And here's my question. Prime Minister, is the Polish government already preparing for what seems inevitable, namely what happens after the European Union? Are the procedures already under consideration, the scenarios, or is there a team working on how to leave the European Union, in particular how to join the EFTA, the European Free Trade Association? Whether there are already such activities, or, as is often the case in Poland, we will wake up with our hands in a potty and unprepared, we will have to take rash actions, as a result of which we will certainly take this process [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will it be unfavorable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u388	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government Prime Minister Szydło underestimates the consequences of Brexit and there is no offer for Poles who may decide to leave Great Britain and return to our country. The reason for this is the lack of understanding by the governing party of the European Union's mechanisms of action, a mediocre level of economic knowledge and complete ignorance and the belief that the President knows everything best. And his statements on the transfer of some of the Union's competences to the national level only served to safeguard the political interests of the PiS. [[Don't do it. Don't do it. ……]] PiS has a scenario of disintegration of the Union, because in your dreams Poland... [[You'd say out of your mind. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] ...is outside the Community, you might say, a land of happiness, only in the periphery, unfortunately. What is the government's offer to Poles who will return from the UK? Can you guarantee us that you will not hold a similar referendum in Poland as in the UK? [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Christopher.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u390	Thank you. The question is asked by Mieczysław Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! Thanks to Poland's accession... [[Mr. President...]] ...to the European Union the dreams of many Poles about going abroad, including the UK, have come true. These trips, among others. Unfortunately, also for commercial purposes, they have become massive in recent years. However, the outcome of the referendum in the UK has caused serious concern about the fate of our citizens. Does the Polish government support the situation of Poles living on the Islands in the UK? Will we seek the best solution for our countrymen who are there when we discuss the conditions for Britain's departure from the European Union? And what are the best solutions, Prime Minister? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u392	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, an independent Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, it is not that the European Union has been such a good project that has broken down in recent years. No, the European Union, this cage for nations, has been designed since the Maastricht Treaty. The fact that further actions deepened those trends which were planned in Maastricht 25 years ago, including the Treaty of Lisbon, which is very bad, very bad, also adversely affecting the Polish situation, in the Polish crisis now regarding the Constitutional Tribunal, does not change the fact that this EU cage of nations is like this, because it is developing, can be said naturally in the direction it was planned 25 years ago. And now we have to face the truth - in Europe, especially in Western Europe, there are two kinds of forces: some Euro-federalist forces that will strive for the ever-increasing implementation of the Maastricht Treaty, the successive treaties, and national, independent, Euro-sceptic forces. There's no way out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] preserve the Union, support...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u394	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u395	...central institutions, the Border Guard, the D.A.'s office and maintain sovereignty. This is a fake road.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u396	The question is asked by Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister has presented this policy and the implications of this policy perfectly. It should be added that the main wizards of this policy were Mrs Merkel and Mr Hollande. Ladies and gentlemen, the main performers were Donald Tusk, Timmermans, Juncker, and it failed. To put it graphically, this policy today looks like a snowman in the spring, late spring - it was long, red nose. Poles want to be in the Union. I would like to ask whether the government is working on new provisions for membership of the Treaty and new provisions in the Treaty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u398	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Lenz from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u399	Today, the Prime Minister identified the opposition's comments to the government's foreign policy as reckless and infantile. But unfortunately, it was government policy that proved to be infantile, reckless and unrealistic. The Government of PiS has de facto rejected Germany as an important partner in the European Union. It was Prime Minister Szydło at the summit of the Visegrad Group who stunned the Czechs and Slovaks, suggesting building a counterweight for Germany. This was accepted with reserve and certainly did not strengthen Poland in the Visegrad Group. Minister Waszczykowski is promoting the construction of the inter-marriage axis, an illusory project. It is not known what countries would be included in this axis. No one but the PiS takes such ideas seriously. A year ago Poland in the European Union was much stronger and more respected. Today it is Prime Minister Szydło who is responsible for actions which result in marginalisation of Poland. This is the result of a bad policy led by Prime Minister Szydło and the entire government of Law and Justice. [[There were no applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u400	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret that the Prime Minister left because I wanted to remind you that we entered the European Union in 2004, because the Prime Minister had, I think, a problem with that. And of these 12 years of our presence in the European Union, it is very difficult to mention any disadvantages of our participation in this project, and the advantages we could exchange for a very long time: speeding up economic growth, increasing Poland's security or funding from the European Union. That's the credit. decisions of Poles from 13 years ago. We all felt that by joining the European Union, we had entered the Western world for a long time, but Brexit's example shows that irresponsible government policies can have very bad consequences. Moreover, today's debate on IPN, the statement by the Prime Minister about the European Union from a few weeks ago, today's statements by Mr Winnicki show that PiS speaks Winnicki and Winnicki speaks PiS, an extremely anti-EU rhetoric. [[A voice from the room: Maybe that's what he thinks.]] Therefore, my question: Would you like to see the Prime Minister [[♪ The bell ♪]] declare that the government...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u402	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u403	...changes irresponsible politics... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...with the values of the EU that lead to our marginalisation? [[Applause]] [[Well read.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u404	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk from the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] No, we're not gonna straighten things out. Here you are, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A great disadvantage after this information, because as many times as the Prime Minister would have said that there were many specifics there, we heard about the two teams that were set up in connection with the decision of the British people, about the failed summit that took place. A few days before the referendum. [[So what do we do?]] The Prime Minister concluded her first speech with this statement: it is time for Europeans to feel at home. I have the impression that it is time for Poles living in the Islands to get a few details that they so much expect from entrepreneurs trading with entrepreneurs in the Islands. What will the economic balance look like? Are there any forecasts, any simulations in this area? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Economic genius.]] Once the material status is secured...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u406	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u407	... Poles living on the islands? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u408	The question is asked by Mr Ireneusz Gaina, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! The next day after the referendum in the UK, we were dealing with the diplomatic offensive of Germany and France, which foreign ministers have announced a document called "Strong Europe in the world of uncertainty." This shows that these countries have been prepared for this solution and have previously carried out work on the preparation of alternative options. Is the Government of the Republic of Poland also working on such an option that the European Union will completely change its shape in the future and it will have to be different in this Union? In addition, can we hope in the debate on the future of the European Union that this discussion will go beyond the political and economic debate and that it will cover all aspects, including those related to the Christian values? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u410	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marian, I am sorry, Marcin Święcicki. And before that, Mr Lech Kołakowski of the Law and Justice Club. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u411	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In one sentence, I would like to say that in the debate of the countries of the European Union it is Prime Minister Beata Szydło that Poland is its leader. Questions. After the UK exits the European Union, does the Polish government have aspirations to fill this particular gap after such a large European player? Two. Will the Polish government take action to reform the European Union so that initiatives such as respect for national identity, history, tradition, culture, Europe of homelands, defence and security policies are the foundation of the European Union? Third. Will Brexit affect the European Union's budget? How will this affect Poland's situation in the context of raising European Union funds and being or not being a net payer? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Very good.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u412	Mr Marcin Święcicki has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite his sympathy for Minister Szymański and the Prime Minister, I am very sorry to say that if Vladimir Putin were sitting here in the stands, he would applaud the vision of the European Union that you are proposing. Putin does not want strong European institutions, but wants the Union to crash into national states so that there is no common European, strong foreign policy that could impose sanctions and make sure that Russia does not have a common energy policy, but that Gazprom can have relations with each country separately, so that there is no common defence policy, only that Europe is divided into 28 or 27 different armies, so that there is no common migration policy, etc. The founding fathers didn't want Europe's homelands and reruns of the League of Nations, they just wanted to... [[Nord Stream 2.]] ...common, transnational institutions. They started with the coal and steel community and gradually expanded it to other institutions. The subsidiarity principle works both ways: on the one hand, this must be decentralised; [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's in the Union is too much, and on the other hand you have to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u414	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u415	...to transfer to the EU level what is not enough - defence, energy, etc. That's why this vision... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...which the Prime Minister presented is in line with Putin's expectations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u416	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u417	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question. Since the Prime Minister is declaring talks and consultations, I ask for a precise answer. Who does this mysterious lawyer working on behalf of the President of the PiS consult on the content of the draft new Treaty of the European Union? The second question I have to ask, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Kloc. I would like to know, because I hear about many trips and many countries that are very supportive of the policies of the PiS, which are the states. Third line. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time in this House to say: Stop the nonsense that Mr Winnicki is telling, calling the European Union a prison of Europe. It's high time someone in charge of the ministry cut the crap. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u418	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u419	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Polish international policy has been common for years and for the right, and for the left. Assigned objectives: accession to NATO and subsequent accession to the European Union were undisputed. Governments were changing, but continuity in international policy was undeniable. After leaving the UK, a great debate is needed, an expert hearing, an assessment of the risks that undoubtedly occur, so the attitude of the Polish government, which, on the one hand, offends European politicians, and on the other hand, tells people that Poland's position on the international stage is growing. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is ignored in the most important meetings of European politicians, so he does not have the right to vote. [[Examples.]] You're predicting a big diplomatic offensive that doesn't show anything. When will the Polish government finally present the basis for further European integration? What is your vision of the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u420	Thank you. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u421	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The need for a thorough reform of the European Union, including a revision of the Treaties, was announced by President Jarosław Kaczyński. The Prime Minister also speaks in a similar tone about the need for reform. I have a question: In what time can we expect the first proposals? Certainly, if the European Union is to be strong in the future, if it is to survive at all, then it must be learned from the British referendum. The British not so much voted against the European Union as against its current shape. And to Mr Trzaskowski and Mr Petru, who is not in the Chamber, to the entire total opposition: impertinence and denial of the need for change after Brexit is a road to nowhere. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u422	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister, unfortunately, isn't here. I have doubts as to whether the current agenda should be called: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the outcome of the UK referendum on further membership of the European Union. Wouldn't the title be more accurate and affordable: Information to the President of the Council of Ministers about how Law and Justice within the European Union discouraged Pole-friendly nations from deepening the idea of a united Old Continent? Or else: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers about why financial institutions, including banks, are not interested in moving to Poland's capital because of the policy of the Government of Law and Justice, are being evacuated from London City as a result of Brexit. Finally, I would consider another title: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the bottom-up position of representatives of the Law and Justice in the European Parliament after leaving the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists by deputies [[♪ The bell ♪]] from Great Britain.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u424	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u425	And this is also the position of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u426	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Anita Czerwińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u427	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I ask the Prime Minister: Is it in the framework of the planned plan to secure the situation of Poles after Brexit that we build such a special direct communication with our compatriots in the Islands in the form of direct consultation with organisations that represent Poles? It's now, at this stage of making this plan. And is it taken into account at a later stage e.g. networking of information points or other means of direct communication with Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u428	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u429	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the context we are talking about, economic relations are particularly important for relations between Poland and the United Kingdom, because in 2015 we achieved a record trade surplus, which amounted to PLN 7 billion, not to mention the value of the capital that was invested under foreign direct investment, because in total as many as PLN 6 billion came from the United Kingdom. I would therefore like to ask a question in an economic context, specifically addressed to your Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, whom I do not see. Its Sustainable Development Plan, to which 1 trillion zloty is to be allocated, is to be half-financed by EU funds. Today, Britain is one of the main net contributors because it pays almost 12, almost 13 billion pounds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if he realizes that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u430	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u431	...this plan may, above all, fall, and how the Prime Minister is preparing to avoid it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u432	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u433	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the question of a common defence perspective for NATO and the European Union in general, in a situation where Brexit's perspective does not change the fact that the United Kingdom will remain a leading European member of NATO with key military resources, including nuclear potential and experience in allied operations, especially in ISAF, Afghanistan, and is also one of the leaders of strengthening the eastern NATO flank, which is extremely important to us. However, Brexit may limit the role of the European Union in European defence, as without the UK, the strongest military country of the Union, the common security and defence policy will no longer be the same. This is why a group of European Union countries with France and Germany have tried to strengthen European integration. There's a threat, there's a real threat, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that it will be integration in the field of defence. I would like to ask: What is the potential impact for us...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u434	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u435	...especially the bad ones? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u436	Mrs Jolanta Hibner, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Best question tonight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we're talking about Brexit and unity. And where were the PiS MEPs who were members of the Conservatives and Reformers? They stood a wall behind Brexit's British supporters. [[Not the wall.]] What did they do to convince their fractal colleagues? Nothing. Why were they applauding Mr Farage, who cheated on the British? They don't know. PS colleagues talk about unity, sitting or turning backwards when the European Union's anthem is played. The British people were deceived by their politicians Eurosceptics. What did these politicians do? They resigned from the party functions. Are these patterns for PiS politicians? If so, God save our homeland from such patriotism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u438	Thank you. And Mr Dominik Tarczynski, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I ask my question, I would like to refer to what she has just read, because she did not say, Mrs Jolanta of the Platform. [[If there's only one minute, you have to read fast. You can't say.]] I'd like to say that Donald Tusk has shown that he's a political failure, [[Applause]] because he was negotiating with the European Union, and it's his fault, and he should be the one to bear the consequences. And it is precisely these consequences, Minister, that I would like to ask: Will Donald Tusk, as a high official of the Union, bear the consequences of this fiasco and what damage he has done? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Almost as well as Peter...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u440	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister cannot hide the fact that the Polish Government, the Government of Law and Justice has been fueling the regular criticism of the institutions of the European Union for months and years. [[Years?]] In some ways it can be said that unwittingly, he unwittingly supported the idea of Brexit, being naive, hoping naively that it is possible to unpunished, without consequences, to ridicule, to threaten with a finger, to show a yellow and red card, to demand, to demand more rights. [[Oh, so we don't demand rights, right? Great.]] Such a policy suffered a total disaster in front of our eyes, because it turned out that populism regularly sipped into the ears of the British gathered a huge, unexpected, undesirable harvest, surprising everyone... [[So they're listening to us.]] ...even the greatest supporters and intercessors of Brexit. A few minutes ago, Prime Minister Beata Szydło said very important words here: we must do everything we can to make sure there is no next choice. Very important words. I believe that it is Poland's responsibility for the future of European integration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I believe the PiS government doesn't want the domino effect...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u442	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u443	...doesn't want any more exits.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u444	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u445	So I understand that... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u446	Ms Agata Borowiec, Law and Justice have the floor. [[So just about that, Eve, you leave.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Very funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u447	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Trade turnover between Poland and the United Kingdom in 2015 exceeded EUR 16.8 billion. Trade turnover in 4 months 2016 amounts to EUR 5.3 billion. The UK is currently ranked 3rd among the trading partners of Poland from Europe. Poland, in turn, is one of Britain's 20 key partners in terms of economic cooperation and the main trading and investment partner among the countries of Central Europe. Hence my questions: How will the outcome of the referendum on British membership in the European Union affect Poland's economic relations with Great Britain and what strategy will the Polish government take to secure Polish economic interests in relations with Great Britain? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u448	Thank you very much. Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, Law and Justice, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u449	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Poland on its calm and responsible attitude after Brexit. This peace was lacking for the leading EU politicians, who were surprised that the British politicians in Europe were still in the Chamber a few days after Brexit, those who advised the United Kingdom to apply for it as soon as possible and initiate a procedure for leaving the European Union. The Polish side was calm and responsible attitude, but at the same time active attitude. I was hoping that when the EU institutions and leading EU politicians mastered their emotions, they would take some reflection on why Brexit really happened. And here it turns out that the institution of the yellow card only applied for the third time, in the Treaty of Lisbon, is rejected by the European Commission. I would like to ask the question: Since this institution is so ineffective or the Polish government [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's going to strengthen the treaty attachment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u450	Thank you, sir. Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: ...the competence of national parliaments? Thank you. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u451	Thank you for the applause. Ladies and gentlemen, you are leading us to Polexit. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[My father told me to stay home.]] Namely, how can we accept information from a person who did not know last year when we signed the Treaty of Accession to the European Union? [[Oh, there...]] I will remind you because perhaps Minister Szymański did not remind the Prime Minister: on 16 April 2003. And the next year we joined the Union. Then, how do you want to teach Europe if it is the members of this government that promote xenophobic attitudes... [[Just as a prime minister once taught farmers about floods.]] ...anti-Semitic, homophobic... [[Coincidence of names?]] And he was right about the flood. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You're gonna go to court for this...]] I've got 20 seconds left. Can you please don't bother me? Ladies and gentlemen, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, homophobia, intolerance and racism... Because multiculti, using this term is racism, remember. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u452	Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u453	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Brexit is Donald Tusk's loser as a politician, as President of the European Council, a loser of the Civic Platform. It is you who have extinguished European optimism with your inaction, with your helplessness. And Donald Tusk's helplessness only shows that you are politically exhausted, not to say politically burned out. [[Even in your benches, no one believes that.]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Great Britain is 10. the world's largest economy. The British labour market is therefore very attractive also for Poles employed there. After the decision to leave the European Union, access to the labour market, social benefits or free health services for our countrymen is at risk. Therefore, I have a question for the Prime Minister: What steps have been taken to secure the stay of Poles in the UK with respect to those social and health rights they acquired during the time when the United Kingdom was a member of the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u454	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Questions are difficult to ask, because what a horse is, everyone sees, so my speech will be rather an incentive for the Prime Minister to reflect, maybe advice, because the European Union is a team. If you want to get results, then of course you have to play team. I would advise the Prime Minister to take the example from Adam Nawalka, but who has shown that playing on the team is effective. [[Sometimes you get a red card.]] Unfortunately, the Law and Justice government can't play on the team, it can't play on the team, which is very bad. President Andrzej Duda once said, this is the phrase he used: Homeland, please return to us, Lord. And of course he's back, and you'll milk this country. [[It was about the Platform.]] But consider that Europe cannot be milked. This cannot be the case: give us a cash Europe, Lord. You can't do that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] realize. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But it was about the Platform.]] [[Oh, Mr. Joseph, not well.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u456	Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u457	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have such a reflection that as a Pole I also feel European, as a politician of Law and Justice, I also have the right to feel like a European. On the other hand, my reflection after the speech by the Prime Minister is going to ask a question, because the role of the UK after leaving the European Union for international policy has certainly not ended. The question is therefore: In what areas will Poland continue its political dialogue on the international stage with Great Britain? And then there's the second line. The Prime Minister's speech shows that we're not going to be extras, we're going to be quarterbacks, which I congratulate you on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u458	Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u459	Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Prime Minister, for the substantive information of the government on Brexit. Brexit is largely the result of the separation of officials in Brussels from the realities of the daily life of millions of Europeans. Europe does not need further regulation. We must oppose attempts by the European Commission to give each other powers which are not enshrined in the Treaties. In recent months we have witnessed the arrogance of the European Commission, which has usurped its right to control parliamentary work in Poland. That's why I have questions for the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister's Government in the EU arena pursue a policy aimed at restoring the fulfilment of the Treaties by the European Commission? Is the Polish government currently taking concrete steps on the situation concerning young people, Poles and Poles living and working in the UK? And shouldn't Brexit be a signal that the Union needs an in-depth reform? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u460	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u461	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Ministers! High Izbo! The European Union should draw lessons from what has happened in the UK, and should be more concerned with the voice of the individual citizens of the European Union. I have questions about Brexit. First: Is it clear whether the Schengen area will apply after the UK exits the European Union, as is the case for example. in the case of an association agreement with Switzerland? And second question: Can the absence of a contribution from the United Kingdom make adjustments to already allocated funds from the European Union budget for individual countries of the Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u462	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u463	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! The Brexit case has been the main topic of many debates for a long time. The exit of the UK from the European Union will certainly result in a number of changes at political and economic level on the international stage. Prime Minister, I have a question. Is it true that if Britain leaves the Union, both sides will enter into a long-term negotiation process on a new agreement, which may even last a few years? Will the Polish government therefore have much time to develop new economic agreements with Great Britain and to take care of our countrymen living in the UK in an appropriate way? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u464	Thank you. Mr Józef Leśniak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Great Britain remains one of Poland's leading partners. To date, the development of cooperation has fostered similarity in the perception of both fundamental international issues and transatlantic relations. Energy security and increased competitiveness, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and the assessment of the Ukrainian crisis and Russia's actions can be an example. With regard to the negative outcome of the EU referendum in the UK and its consequences on a European level, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is not the right time to consider how the European Union will continue to function. If so, with which Member States [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland can count on cooperation in both bilateral and multilateral formats? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u466	Thank you. Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u467	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Poles benefit from the freedom of movement of people and the facilitation of setting up and running companies in the UK in relation to our country - they founded 40,000 in the Islands. companies. These companies cooperate with Polish companies, trade Polish goods. But also the British start companies in Poland and this cooperation is developing perfectly. Thank you, Prime Minister, for ensuring that Polish interests will be secured after Brexit, that Polish entrepreneurs in the UK have nothing to fear. I just have a question as to whether the government is conducting an information campaign so that what the Prime Minister said today will reach a wide range of Poles - that the Polish state will stand behind them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u468	Thank you very much. Mr Winnicki came forward as corrected. Here you go, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Szłapka has replaced me once again. Today, members of the Platform and the Modern Platform have had some big problem with the fact that part of the hall clapped at the moment when I defended the Polish historical policy, that the members of the governing party, President Kaczyński, clapped. I therefore have two advices for your Members. First of all, maybe you should focus less on President Kaczyński and more on your work in the Sejm. Don't stare at him or clap or smile or do anything else. It is not the duty of the Polish Member to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] ...to stare at Kaczyński's president.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u470	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u471	And secondly, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u472	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u473	...I hope that you will also clap when the Polish historical policy is defended in this Seym. [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u474	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Konrad Szymański. [[Marshal, I wanted to correct Mr Winnicki's statement.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u475	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There were very many questions about a very crucial issue in the negotiations, which we have before us, namely the rights of Poles who live in very large numbers, who learn, live in the UK, and who today are actually concerned about the shape of protecting their rights, what their legal situation will be during the process of leaving the UK from the European Union and, above all, when Britain's membership of the European Union will expire. This is not the only one, but one of the central elements of the mandate that we are creating in the government, the analysis that we are conducting in the government as regards the Polish attitude towards these two processes that are ahead of us, processes that will be fully dependent on Poland's position, the process of the UK's exit from the Union and the formation of new relations, the substitute relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. As far as students specifically concerned, which Mrs Lichocka pointed out, today, of course, this system, which is used by many Poles, is open on an EU-wide basis. We do not expect the United Kingdom, together with its exit from the European Union, to close its higher education system, its research, development and scientific policies on Europe, because this would bring a clear loss to the university sector in the UK. On the other hand, EU rules, which force citizens of the Member States of the European Union to be treated equally, can be corrected. Surely there will be attempts to make such an adjustment. From our point of view, we will apply the same principle as in any other matter concerning rights and obligations. The principle of symmetry applies. If the United Kingdom really wants to remain an important participant in the common market, it must consider that it will also have to fulfil certain obligations that operate in the common market. We will not allow the United Kingdom to unilaterally lead to a situation where the benefits of the common market can be reaped and commitments are not met. Besides, these models are already in place. The United Kingdom will not be the only country with close relations with the common market. Ultimately, it will depend on itself and it is its sovereign decision how much it wants to pay for its separation with the European Union. But from our point of view, one thing is important: full symmetry of rights and obligations, full observation, very thorough observation of the legal status of each professional group, every citizen of a Member State of the European Union, especially Poland, in every situation of life. This is one of the central elements of our preparation for the two negotiation processes that are ahead of us. Several questions concerned the role of the UK in the future European architecture, the future architecture of international relations. Many of you referred to the fundamental foundation of the foreign minister's exposé, in which he pointed out Great Britain as a very important strategic partner of Poland in Europe and in the world. It seems that attention needs to be paid, especially in a debate such as today, that the European Union is not the only format that allows European countries to work together, intensive cooperation between European countries to benefit citizens in terms of prosperity and security. The most important platform for our cooperation, as demonstrated by the last summit, is NATO. The position of the UK, a member of the Security Council, a country that has one of the largest armies in Europe, a country that has military capacity, a country that has certain views on the geopolitical agenda of Europe, this position, regardless of membership of the European Union, will not change, so your doubts about the future status of the UK in our own geometry, security architecture, are completely unfounded. Regional consolidation, which is indeed an important element of the new government's policy, is not, contrary to your concerns, aimed at making life difficult for someone in Europe, one or the other capital. It is not aimed at turning the natural layout of the map of the European Union, NATO, Europe's map into a narrow map. Regional consolidation is designed to strengthen the region's voice on the same map that we have always been dealing with. In short, Visegrad consolidation, consolidation of the whole of Central Europe is not to suddenly change cooperation with Germany, France, the rest of the European Union to Central Europe, but to strengthen their status vis-à-vis the largest Member States of the European Union. The measure of the seriousness of the Polish government in preparing for two important negotiation processes is the fact that this mandate is already very detailed today. In this mandate, among those issues which are crucial for the rights of Poles, Polish citizens, the rights of entrepreneurs, and finally for the international position of Poland after the exit of Great Britain from the European Union, there are many issues. I'll pay attention to a few. The first issue is of course social, social, economic, human rights of all those Poles who live, learn and live in the UK. The second point is, of course, access to the market, to the market of services on which we have an advantage, a positive trade balance, and above all to the market of goods. In terms of agri-food goods and other goods, we have a commercial advantage that we want to preserve. Therefore, in the field of interest of the government conducting these negotiations, which we are talking about today, this issue will play no less important role. Important questions concerned the future of the common foreign and defence policy. It's true. The common foreign and defence policy of the European Union without Britain must certainly look different. But there is no need for the United Kingdom not to maintain its relationship with this policy, which is based on voluntary cooperation, on the willingness of individual Member States to cooperate. We will be in favour of a common foreign and defence policy of the European Union being open to countries such as the United Kingdom, which are added value in defence and in European policy, to those countries which are able to add something to the defence capacity of Europe abroad. There is no reason for this policy to be closed. There is certainly no reason for this policy to move towards non-complementary, confrontation with what is NATO's acquis. I have already mentioned research policy, this is a very important aspect that we will be paying attention to. I mentioned that we are clearly seeing problems in meeting the objectives of the UK's climate policy. We see the problems that can arise in agricultural policy when the United Kingdom, coming out of the common agricultural policy, will create national instruments to support its agricultural goods. All these elements are at the heart of the government's interest, they will shape our final position towards these negotiations, and all these things will have to be addressed correctly. Without this there will be no Polish agreement to restore the proper relationship between the European Union and Great Britain after leaving. And that's pretty specific. You've asked a lot of questions about specifics. I think this particular one is very clear. You really have to close your eyes and ears so you don't notice. Poland has very well, effectively moved its expectations on the principles of Britain's exit from the European Union. We have made it clear, together with the 26 countries of the European Union, that as long as the United Kingdom's membership of the European Union continues, the United Kingdom must fulfil all its treaty obligations, including the obligation to finance EU policy. This is clearly enshrined in the post- Summit position of the EU-27. As regards future relations, we have reiterated with other Member States that these relations should be as close as possible. We want the United Kingdom to be as closely connected as possible, as it is today, despite the lack of economic membership, politics and European defence. But the principle of symmetry that I was talking about at the beginning must be respected here. We are not inclined to take note of such an unsustainable agreement that would entail access to the common market, access to rights in Europe without respecting the obligations and expectations of the Member States, including Poland's expectations. We have a wide mandate for these negotiations. And the most important thing that was mentioned here was the reform of the European Union. Poland is certainly not a country that will allow European politicians to wake up in a few months to believe that nothing happened, that everything is fine with us, that in fact in the UK we have been dealing with an accident at work, by some misunderstanding caused by populists and people who did not understand something. That would be the worst lesson we can imagine. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I'd agree that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u476	Please don't disturb the speech. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: ...not all Member States will write the new EU Treaty to the same extent. That is true, not all of them, but I would very much like Poland not to be part of this group of countries that will be surprised by this debate. I would very much like Poland to be prepared to be in this narrow club of countries that have an opinion on how EU architecture should look, which are prepared to take this action, so that the prophecy of one of the PSL Members does not actually work out that the new treaty will be written by only two countries. I doubt all 27 of them write to the same extent, but I would very much like Poland to be among the co-authors of this treaty. With regard to the EU budget, the UK's EU contribution will be due until the last day of UK membership in the European Union. It's obvious. If there are changes in the financing of EU policies, we will prefer that this loss of contributions be evened out by the other Member States, because this means that it will be much smaller, four times less costs from a Polish point of view, and let us remember that we are still a net recipient of many policies. There was talk of Polish loneliness here and I would like to talk about it at the end. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a few days after the publication of the results of the Warsaw referendum, the Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs participated in the consultation with 16 Member States of the European Union. I think it's very difficult to talk about loneliness in such a case. It seems that in particular today, when we have just finished a successful and extremely solid summit of the Visegrad Group, it is very difficult to put the thesis that Poland has a problem with loneliness. On the other hand, listening to your debate, in particular the statements of the opposition Members, it is very easy to feel that you are dealing perfectly with the problems you have come up with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm accept the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the outcome of the... [[Objection!]] ...completed in the United Kingdom a referendum on the further membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union for information. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection!]] [[Objection!]] There's an objection. We will proceed with the opposition in the voting block. I'm ordering a brief recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 37 until 3 p.m. 19 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. The groups of Members have submitted draft resolutions: - on TTIP and CETA international agreements, - on the opposition to the ratification procedure proposed by the European Commission between the European Union and Canada - CETA without the approval of the Member States. The designs are 727 and 728 respectively. The opposition to the examination of these projects has been withdrawn. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. Is there an objection? I don't hear any objections. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the draft resolution of the Senate on the Constitutional Tribunal Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for consideration of this report. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But I have reported, Mr Marshal, a formal motion.]] Accepting a proposal to complete the agenda will mean... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Formal conclusion.]] Madam, would you be kind enough to listen to me to the end? Thank you. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Formal proposals have been made by the Members. Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u477	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, I have a request to your marshal to announce a recess, to convene the Seniors' Convention and to explain how and on the basis of which the Committee on Justice and Human Rights had just discussed the amendments of the Senate, before the Sejm joins today's sitting, I believe, this point, which is a contentious point. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the committee should be convened three days before the meeting of the Sejm unless a given point is provided for. In the meantime, you are calling a committee meeting, you are consulting the Senate's amendments, but only after this committee's meeting will you put this item on the agenda. Mr. Marshal, you should be a guardian of the rules. Either you're able to break all the rules of parliamentarians, everything that's been laid down by you in the Rules of Procedure, or we're just spectators of this really embarrassing performance because you're knee-deep to push the Constitutional Court Act, and you're planning a debate again at night. Mr. Marshal, from this point on, I urge you to finally control the Sejm's rules. It is unacceptable for the committee to deal with an emergency matter that is not on the agenda. I ask you to answer the question whether the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights convened suddenly, by texts, a few hours before that date, without putting the relevant item on the agenda, was a legal meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u478	There you go. At the moment you have the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the modern club, also a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we are dealing once again with violations of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Today's committee meeting took place, although the Constitutional Court Act has not yet been entered on the agenda and ad hoc meetings of the committee on this subject can only be convened if they concern the agenda. On the other hand, we will only be voting on the introduction of the Constitutional Court Act on the agenda, so this is absolutely premature. However, I would like to make a formal request for a break in order to invite the rapporteur to the Senate amendments, those amendments which raised so many doubts at this illegally convened meeting of the Committee on Justice, substantive doubts concerning not only their meaning, but also the purpose of introducing them. No one was able to answer that, and the Legislative Office also pointed out that the amendments you are proposing are illegible, incomprehensible, sloppy. But how are they supposed to be written if the state, as a rule, accepted that we proceed at night, in haste, in an unconstitutional manner? You're pretending to be improving, and this bill that we're really doing right now is breaking three basic goals, and it's fulfilling your three basic goals. [[Voice from the room: Relax.]] You introduce the judgment of wrongly elected judges, you do not publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March, and you lead the Constitutional Tribunal to be paralyzed, still blocked, so that citizens cannot have the constitutionality of the laws checked: the police, the counter-terrorism, the land, those who so severely violate their rights and civil liberties. [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] And to be honest, I don't blame you even for the fact that you're going to be proceding at night, because what's driving you is an ordinary human shame. Shame that you are implementing a law that destroys one of the most important institutions in Poland: the Constitutional Tribunal. I don't even blame you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u480	Thank you, Member. I kindly inform both of your fellow Members... Ha... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] If the marshal had the opportunity to convene committee meetings, I'd be happy to take advantage of it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, and perhaps fortunately, the Rules of Procedure make it clear: the meetings of the committee shall be convened by the chairman or the bureau of the committee or at the request of the relevant group of members of the committee and by the committee itself shall convene meetings. [[Three days before!]] And the present custom, I remind you, has been applied so often in the previous term that today we are taking a good example. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] But there's a request for a break. The request for a break and the convening of the Senior Convention cannot be accepted as a formal proposal because the Senior Convention is decided by the Marshal of the Sejm. [[How about a break?]] On the other hand, there is a request for a break and I will put this proposal to the vote. We therefore proceed to the vote on the request for a break. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Four Members abstained in favour of 167 votes against - 260. The motion was rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate's resolution on the Constitutional Tribunal Act (Prints Nos 755 and 761) will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 234 voted against - 176, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. On the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on this item, objections were raised. I will put to the vote a proposal to hear three minutes' statements. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm will listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on the added point. [[Five minutes. Even this?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on the added point will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 260 voted against - 170, abstained - 4. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I'm declaring a two-minute recess because we're done with the vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 46 hrs. 19 min 48]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws (prints Nos 668 and 741). I ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this draft law, tabled legislative amendments at its meeting on 19 July 2016. This is a project implementing European Union law. I propose that the Sejm adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u482	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, in relation to the report on this project, in print Nos 668 and 741. As the rapporteur said, the proposal adapts the right to EU law. First of all, it is about inheritance rights and to extend the scope of the Revenue Register also to the European Certificate of Succession. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will, of course, support this bill, but we are proposing three amendments to this proposal, which I would like to make. One amendment consists of a change in Article. 2 to the wording of point 53, the second amendment consists in adding in Article. 8 after point 4 (4a) and the third amendment consists in adding in Article. 23 after point 1 (1a). As regards the latter amendment, its objective is to amend the date of entry of certain provisions of the Law of 10 July 2015. Firstly, it is the provisions concerning the applicant's application for the remission of electronic reminders, which require appropriate changes to the ICT system, and secondly, it is proposed to amend the date of entry into force of the electronic auction rules. I am submitting these amendments to the Marshal and, of course, I am asking the High House to adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Wilk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me say very briefly, because the issue is quite simple. Anyone who has ever had experience with succession proceedings, especially on an international level, with a foreign element, knows what a difficult procedure it is, a difficult procedure. Therefore, it is necessary to welcome the amendments concerning the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code related to the inclusion of the European Certificate of Succession in the Register of successions, which already exists in Polish law, which has already been incorporated into Polish law. High Izbo! Such a change will certainly increase legal certainty, increase certainty about the persons entitled to the inheritance. This type of conduct with an international aspect is increasing. This is a good change, and Kukiz15 supports this project and supports its further work by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u486	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club a position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws contained in print No. 668. Reiterating to a large extent the arguments of first reading: the proposed amendments will in particular enable the effective implementation of European Regulation No 650/2012 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions, acceptance and enforcement of authentic instruments relating to succession and on the establishment of a European Certificate of Succession. And it is the European Certificate of Succession that is the key issue of this amendment. I will also replicate what the previous speakers have said, that regulation in this area is to be welcomed. She guarantees the consistency of the system of recording documents issued in succession cases, which significantly strengthens the credibility of the register of successions and increases the security of legal trade, and that is what I think, in particular, should depend on. The succession register shall be a public register to be kept by the National Notarial Council. It will disclose information on judgments and documents issued by notaries confirming the rights of inheritance. The European Certificate of Succession is an alternative document issued against the court's orders to establish the acquisition of an inheritance or notarial certificates of succession. In addition, it may be used by the recipient, the executor of the will or the estate manager. It shall be issued in cases where a legal title is required to be shown abroad. Its possession makes it easier to handle such matters. Since a court and notary are entitled to issue European Certificate of Succession in Poland, each of these authorities will have to disclose information on the European Certificate of Succession in the succession register as soon as possible in accordance with the draft amendment. A court or notary will charge a fee for entering an entry in the register of succession to be transferred to the National Council of Notaries. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support this solution and support the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u488	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members wish to speak, please, I will close the list after the first question. Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, Law and Justice have the floor. Question time - 1 minute. There's no envoy. In that case, would the Minister like to speak? Please, Mr. Michał Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u489	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a good project for citizens. I thank you for this constructive discussion and the statements of representatives of all parliamentary clubs. I would also like to thank the committee for its efficient and constructive work on this project. I would like to say that most of the amendments we have examined were legislative or editorial. Today the text will probably be clearer and more coherent. All these amendments so far did not raise any objections to the government. As regards the amendments tabled by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, the government fully supports them. In our view, they will help in the correct implementation and application of those amendments which were introduced by the July 2015 Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u490	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft of the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on notariat is the result the implementation of the European Certificate of Succession Regulation, which applies the principle that inheritance, in particular in so-called. Cross-border relations are to be carried out according to the law of the habitual residence of the deceased and not his nationality. I would just like to ask about the cost of issuing a European Certificate of Succession. According to the assumption, the court will be able to issue them for a fee of 300 PLN or notary, but only in non-contested cases - for a fee of up to 400 PLN. With regard to the amount of the fee, the appropriate regulation of the Minister of Justice shall apply, which must take account of the non-profitable nature of the register in question. In conclusion, the obligation to pay such a fee should be made conditional only if the value of the inheritance exceeds a certain amount, e.g. 10,000. Evil? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u492	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Law on Aviation Law (prints No 710 and 745). I would like to ask Mrs Maria Zuba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Committee on Infrastructure adopted 17 editorial and legislative amendments and nine substantive amendments during the revision of the Aviation Law. Amendment 1. Substantively, the amendment to the construction of the article. 17. This is a provision that talks about the scope of the Aviation Law Act. As part of the revision of this article, we have deleted our mouths. 15 and 16, which had previously functioned in it, but their presence here meant that a member of the committee could not act as a judicial expert in matters conducted by the committee and that the members of the committee, when drawing up reports, analyses and opinions as experts, were to follow the principle of free assessment of evidence and were not bound by instructions as to the content of the resolutions taken. It was a mistake that we removed during this amendment. At the same time, such a smoothing change was the deletion of the paragraph. Article 1 82. On the other hand, the mouth has been added. 22 (2) in Article. 14. In the next amendment, Amendment 2, we made such a change that we replaced the words of a member of the committee with the word "person." In accordance with the provision in the previous wording, the chairman of the committee could not be a member of the committee unless he had at least 3 years of experience in safety investigations. In changing these words, we have led to the fact that the chairman of the committee may be a person with at least 3 years of experience in safety investigations. The situation is similar in the case of the mouth. 9 - the deputy chairman of the committee may be a person with at least 2 years experience in safety investigations. Amendment 3. We have made a change, which is that on the date of appointment with a member of the committee the employment relationship has been established, while the provision so far stated that on the date of appointment of a member of the committee there is a contract of employment with that person. The amendment eliminates the erroneous wording while replacing it with a new one. In Amendment 4, we have made changes to the article. 1 and in the mouth. 17 We have clarified that the members of the committee are not bound in the formulation of reports by anybody's instructions. And in the mouth. 22 We have also made a change which makes it clear that the qualification of safety incidents in order to take a decision on the conduct or supervision of an aviation accident investigation may belong solely to the chairman or his appointed alternate, secretary or other member of the committee. The oversight of an aviation accident investigation shall not be carried out by a person who is not a member of the committee. With Amendment 5, we washed our mouths. 11, since the comprehensive rules governing the issue of on-call time for committee members are detailed in Article. 17a paragraph. 7. In Amendment 6, however, we set out the conditions for admission to public use of airports. The amendment was introduced in Article. 1 in point 3 in point (a) (b) where we have determined that the aerodrome of exclusive use may be opened to all aircraft within the time limits and hours fixed by the airport manager and made public. Following the registration of aerodromes, the change in accessibility for airport users becomes an aerodrome of public use not subject to certification, unless it is subject to the requirements of Regulation No 216/208 of the European Community. As part of Amendment 7, after point 4, we added point 4a, which specifies how to proceed when an airport is to be set up in a place where an aircraft already operates. This amendment sets out the scope of the documents and also specifies the authority responsible for issuing environmental decisions which will determine whether environmental conditions will be considered or whether the decision will be taken on the basis of the position of the President of the Civil Aviation Authority. Amendment 8 has been amended to specify that authorisations previously issued under existing legislation will expire on the date of entry into force of this Law. In the 9th amendment, we noted that the existing provisions apply to cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Act. The regulations contained in this draft law amending the Aviation Law Act introduce changes in the organisation of the State Aviation Accident Investigation Commission. Experience in this area so far indicates the need for changes to the existing rules underlying its functioning. The amendments made concern in particular the possibility of opening airports exclusively for public use and shortening the duration of the conversion procedure. In addition, the provisions of this law simplify the procedure leading to the making available of exclusive use to airports and greater access to this airport to the interested parties. The Members of the Committee on Infrastructure have accepted the proposed amendments. On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I ask the High House to adopt these amendments and this Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u494	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Aviation Law Act. The aim of this bill is to improve the functioning and strengthen the guarantee of the independence of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission and to ensure the effective opening of airports of exclusive use for public use by clarifying the rules and creating realistic conditions for changing the availability of an exclusive airport without reducing the level of safety in air traffic. New edition of the article. The 17th Act, which regulates the functioning of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents, is due to the need to clarify the applicable rules and to ensure that they comply with European Union law. The proposed amendment also concerns the replacement of the existing model of appointment of committee members for their appointment and dismissal. According to the evaluation of the committee's work so far, this model has not worked. A solution to significantly affect the quality of functioning of committees may be the introduction of provisions similar to those adopted with regard to the State Commission for Railway Accidents Investigation. Experience shows that the regulations applied in the cited law are much better in practice. The project strengthens the role and independence of committees also by ensuring appropriate mechanisms and guaranteeing independence in the course of an aviation accident investigation, it shall ensure that its members and the experts involved are entitled to express their views freely within the framework of the expert studies, studies, opinions, analyses and reports drawn up. The second important issue concerning the matter of the draft amendment is the simplification of procedures leading to the making available to airports of exclusive use. This procedure will ensure greater availability of airports for those concerned by introducing a category of non-certified public service aerodromes that will replace an ineffective institution for the temporary opening of an aerodrome of exclusive use for public use. The increase in the number of airports that can accept aircraft on a similar basis to public airports will have a positive impact on competition in the air services market and will increase the interest of airlines. The procedure is to be simplified and accelerated and its limitations and requirements result should only be of the necessity to maintain air safety. Given the need to improve the functioning of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission, to increase its independence, as well as its willingness to support aviation in Poland, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposed changes. Mr. Marshal, based on the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Poland Sejm I propose an amendment to the bill amending the Law on Aviation Law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u496	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u497	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Psychology describes the dilemma of striving - avoidance. One outstanding Pole who changed history in such a situation said that he was for it and even against it. The Civic Platform is in a similar situation at the moment, because in the law, also after the work of the first reading, it sees good rules that respond to the changing socio-economic situation, to the development of the aviation industry, to the needs of users of small aircraft, ultralight aircraft. That is why we would like to be in favour because there is a chance to open closed airports today, which are the responsibility of managing exclusive use airports. But we must bear in mind that this law also contains sneaky provisions concerning the article. 17, which describes the composition, the procedure for setting up the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. The most sneaky provision is contained in Article. 2, which provides that the term of office of all members of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission will end 30 days after the entry into force of this Act. That is why we cannot support this law. The State Air Accident Investigation Commission is a highly deserved institution. I'll remind you that since she was appointed, she recognized cases involving 17,107 events, 1360 of which were accidents and 258 were serious incidents. The others were the minor incidents that the committee was dealing with. He's investigating 130 accidents right now. 130 accidents are being identified by the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. The Commission is also investigating 31 major incidents and 23 incidents. This shows that it is a very important organ. It is important that it is truly independent, not as the justification of the project, which falsely describes, that when we change the composition of the committee, it will be independent. No, she's currently independent. Currently, the committee consists of 15 people. The smallest group consisted of six people, but due to the number of accidents, which is a consequence of the development of air traffic, the use of small airports by aeroclubs, the dissemination of fashion for flying, paragliding, paratroopering. That's why this committee needs to investigate. The term of office is a guarantee of independence. You want to shorten this term of office, break it, so we must oppose the purgatory that Law and Justice wants to do in the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. We are asking for the full independence of this committee. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am making amendments - the first to delete all these changes that concern Article. 17, and the second, to remove this disgraceful article. 2, which you want to break the spine and independence of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. By the way, I'd like to thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For Maciej Lask's solid work, because he's chairing this committee. You want revenge...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u498	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u499	...for showing up...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u500	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u501	...independence. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u502	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u503	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 is pleased that the changes we carry out in the State Air Accident Investigation Commission are included in the slogan: safety above all. We are pleased that institutional and legal solutions will in the future allow us to replace airports of use excluded from public use at airports, so as Kukiz15 we will vote in favour of these good solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u504	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u505	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Poselski Club in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Aviation Law, contained in print No. 710, the report of the committee - print No. 745. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law submitted, as justified by the applicants, introduces changes which can be de facto divided into two categories. The first category is substantive changes, and the second category, unfortunately, is staff changes and, attention, the introduction of preventive censorship. For starters, I want to talk about what is good, what deserves support, and if it weren't for the second part of this project, there would be no discussion at all about what to do with this project. Thus, the first part concerns the possibility of opening airports of exclusive use for public use, i.e. by simplifying strongly, the point is that some aircraft can fly to most airports in Poland and that this is done in the framework of standard airport procedures. It's a very modern postulate. The rationalisation of the procedures referred to in the project will create much more favourable conditions for changing the availability of an exclusive airport than is currently the case. Of course, these provisions take into account the need to maintain appropriate safety rules, which is an extremely important demand for air operations. It must be said that it is really important that, wherever in the case of air operations, safety conditions and economic issues allow this to happen, deregulate this market, simplify legislation, rationalise all of this. This is an important element of this construction, which is designed to create conditions for faster development of our country. We are all aware of the extent to which the presence of an airport increases the investment attractiveness of each region. It's hard to overestimate. So, when I evaluate this area of change, I would like to say that the Modern Parliamentary Club supports this kind of change. If only it contained this, that was the end of the project, then we support it without hesitation and vote in favour. Unfortunately, the applicants have come up with the idea that this noble goal should be combined with a goal that reflects the worst practices of the ruling majority, namely the practice of staff policy with the hands of the Sejm and the introduction of preventive censorship. Art. 2 says explicitly: PiS relieves all members of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission and gives them a three-month briefing. The fact that you have written about the possibility of proposing new conditions does not change anything at all. You have created a legal framework for the group dismissal of the current members of the committee and the appointment of your officers to replace them. This becomes even more obvious when we look at the changes in the project. The Member's representative pointed out that every institution must be reformed and that is the ratio legis. But if we look at these changes, it will turn out that they are simple bureaucratic changes that have nothing to do with bringing the committee to a higher level of organisation. And now, ladies and gentlemen, this bomb I was talking about at the beginning - you have introduced an absolutely political solution to a project of a purely technical nature. The project was so inconspicuous. a new point 22 in the draft Article. 17, the new sound of this point. He says that a committee member and an expert are obliged to keep secret the information obtained in connection with the investigation of an aviation incident. This is, ladies and gentlemen, some kind of psychic. I understand that maybe there are some details that a committee member shouldn't talk about too much for different reasons. But this record is nothing more than preventive censorship, political preventive censorship. And that's also obvious why. You want to shut your mouth to people who know what happened in Smolensk. You want the committee members not to talk about the actual findings on this disaster. You want the only information about the Smoleńsk catastrophe to be the narrative of Minister Macierewicz and the so-called. The experts you've called. It is some great wickedness towards our nation, our nation, and the memory of the victims. It's indecent and it's absolutely sad. [[Think about what you're saying.]] That is why we are making three amendments that remove staff proposals and this wicked prevention censorship from the project, and we ask all clubs to support these amendments. Let us not, ladies and gentlemen, take over our history of this narrative, whose sole purpose is to divide the nation in the name of political achievements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u506	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today's draft amendment to the Aviation Law includes, as my previous speakers have already stated, two segments, two parts. As for this technical part, if you can define it as such, our club, the club of the Polish People's Party, does not raise any comments, objections. We believe that this is a good solution, that it meets the expectations of this sector of the economy, that it responds to changing realities, makes it possible to make more airports available, solves problems with small, regional airports, and everything would be fine and very good, because it is also assumed in the part that there will be no deterioration of the safety conditions in the performance of flight tasks. I think this is a very good direction, all the more so that we have in the assumptions and regional development, and in the country's development, certain plans for a broad communication between the region and the country and its neighbours. We are moving towards speeding up the development of the air transport sector. After all, we have examples from neighbouring countries where this development and this economic area have a certain effect. But our concern - I do not hide it, I signaled it in my first reading - is the part of the project that talks about change, about operating conditions, working conditions, how to set up a committee to investigate aviation accidents. I think this is a shortcut with the end of a certain stage of the committee, which carries out specific tasks, which conducts a number of proceedings, cutting its work and opening a new chapter. These events - they were, they are and they will be. May there be as little as possible, because human tragedies are involved many times here. But in order to fully explain and continue the work of the body, despite political changes, it is necessary to respect and enable certain actions to be completed. Hence, the way we emerge with the conditions of operation raises our concern, because there is a large question mark on how we will secure or how you will secure this independence as an applicant for this project. In this regard, has this independence not been established, so far, the composition of the committee has been set up? And will the way in which this law is implemented ensure this independence? In addition, the records that my previous speaker from the Modern One spoke about are included. Hence, the club of the Polish People's Party will consider the position and take a vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u508	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the matter of the parliamentary draft law amending the Aviation Law Act. In my earlier position, I have already stressed the importance of the intended regulations. The proposed changes giving independence and ensuring freedom to express their positions to the members of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission and its experts deserve recognition. Such records guarantee an objective and impartial issuing of opinions and expertise. That's what we all expect. My previous doubts stemming from the negative opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office suggesting that the proposed changes are not compatible with the Union rules were resolved by the amendment notified by the applicant and accepted by the committee. I'm happy with the quick reaction of the designers. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u510	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak again, I would like to invite you. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk has the floor. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u511	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Law and Justice wants to take revenge on Maciej Chasek, Law and Justice, and therefore wants to conduct a purge in the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. But this committee is currently investigating 130 accidents. This committee is currently investigating 31 major incidents and 23 minor incidents. What will happen to these proceedings when you make a total purge when you cancel all the members of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission? What will be the fate of these matters? Wouldn't air traffic safety be affected? What will be the costs of possibly having to conduct these proceedings from the beginning? I ask you to answer these questions of the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and possibly the representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u512	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u513	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask - because in the draft, in the explanatory memorandum it is written that the model for changes in the composition and organisation of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents was the State Commission for the Investigation of Railway Accidents - what experiences from that committee will be used and why this committee has been taken into account when it comes to the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u514	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u515	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm shocked at the opposition club's claims about the so-called. Purges that Maciej Lask's team will be eliminated. Yeah, I've been saying that for the second time, Maciej Chasek has to go. More about what a representative of one of the opposition clubs said about the work of Minister Antoni Macierewicz's committee: Should we invoke what Miller's committee created, what was made by the Lask team, what was done under the dictation of a neighbor from the East? Minister, we know that the committee has a dozen members. Is there any chance for some experts, experts that they will be able to be called back to work for a new team? I hope that under a completely different leadership, expert, Mr. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u516	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u517	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The provision proposed by the State is exactly that: The committee member and the expert involved in the committee's work shall be obliged to keep the information obtained in connection with the investigation of the aviation event secret. If this isn't a preventive censorship, then what is it? Ladies and gentlemen, around the world, experts who investigate such accidents are invited to television, to the programs explain their reasons. Their work, their experience with the committee, from the accident investigation, makes the entire area more secure and the state wants to close its mouth, they want to gag the mouths of these experts. It is clear why, here Mrs Macierewicz has just mentioned the committee of Minister Macierewicz. Ladies and gentlemen, think about what you're doing. You're gonna make these experiences, these good practices that could be the result. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The work of experts will remain only in their heads.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u518	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u519	All you want is to shut your mouths to experts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u520	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I am very pleased that this law was adopted so positively during the committee's work. Let me remind you that the committee has decided to unanimously support the project. That's why I'm a little surprised at the controversy that happened here today, in this room, a few hours after the committee's work. But you can always change your mind. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, referring to this part of the project that talks about changing the category, changing the qualification of airports, I will say that this is a postulate that has been formulated by the environment, and I hope that those nearly 50 airports which today are exclusively used will be able to turn into non-certified airports as soon as possible. This is a really gigantic turn, a gigantic impulse to the development of Polish aviation. I will also remind you that the government is completing its work on the Act on Ultralight Aviation, so it will also complement these possibilities related to better, easier access to equipment, easier access to aircraft, easier access to Polish sky. I am also pleased that this morning the High House voted on a bill to extend the operation of the aviation specialty. This is another point where we improve the situation of Polish aviation. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the discussion that is taking place here, as regards the independence of the committee and the doubts that have arisen here, as regards the confidentiality of information to which experts will be obliged to work in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, is it really unusual that, until the final document has been drawn up, the proceedings, those who participate in it, should not speak on this matter? [[But this recipe doesn't talk about it.]] He's talking about it. [[But it's not a recipe.]] So that's the idea, that's the idea of the recipe. If you do not understand this, it is difficult to interpret, it will be the implementation of this provision and then we will see how it is applied. But here, too, in some of your speeches, there was a note - that is, I could understand - that we are eliminating the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents in general. We are not eliminating, on the contrary - it will work much better under this new law. It'll work better. The question was, however, that there was a problem of independence. High Izbo, independence is also a non-political commitment of the members. If you think that the current President is a politically uninvolved person in the current political dispute, in the current rivalry between political parties, then I think you're a little out of reality. This is simply the result of the fact that this man is on your side, but is he objective, or is he independent? Would you defend this man if he didn't speak politically on your side? So today you're destroying the independence of the state commission, too. She will probably have to rebuild her independence for many years, because you also burdened her with today's speeches, because you involve the committee, its members in this conflict, which is today in Poland, political conflict. On the other hand, I will also refer to the threats that have been formulated here, that the committee will cease to act, that it will be necessary to repeat the proceedings that are taking place. It's nothing. Well, High Izbo, the amendment that has been tabled, is just resolving these doubts, shows the process of changes that can take place - I stress - in the state committee. This amendment makes the threats you spoke of simply not exist. And for this reason I wanted to thank you gentlemen, because you have indeed drawn our attention to the error that occurred in the article. 2 laws. He'll be corrected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. The Minister referred directly to the scope I was talking about, and most likely the Minister misunderstood me because I was talking about the article...]] [[It's from the bleachers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u522	Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, in the correction procedure. 30 seconds. [[But the rules say that the corrigendum is two minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u523	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm not accusing you of not knowing these rules, but, I don't know, I don't think you've misled the High House because I don't think you fully understood me. I was talking about lips. 22, but also look at your lips. 23, which says very clearly: the provision of the paragraph. 22 - i.e. the banner to speak about the news - also applies to the member of the committee after his membership of the committee and the expert has expired after he has completed his work in the committee. So it's not like you're saying he's gonna be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He could have talked about it after the report was published. Unfortunately, it's censorship.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u524	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u525	He won't be able to talk about a word. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u526	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u527	I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u528	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund; - amending the Energy Law Act and certain other laws; - on the amendment of the Law on minimum remuneration for work and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 759, 766 and 758 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft bill on the rules of settlement in the tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units (prints No 709 and 748). I ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u529	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report in print No 748 on the Law on special rules for the settlement of value added tax and the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units. The original government bill is presented in print No 709. Draft law, in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union [[EUSF]] and the resolution of the Supreme Administrative Court (NSA), centralizes VAT settlements in local governments. This centralisation must cover the organisational units set up by the local government, by which budgetary units, budgetary establishments and municipal offices, district old offices and marshal offices must be understood, with the provision of adequate time for the local authorities to adjust the accounts. The concept adopted in the draft therefore provides for the latest mandatory centralisation of forward settlements from 1 January 2017. The proposed regulations provide local authorities with legal instruments both to support the process of centralisation in formal terms and to minimise the burden associated with it. At the same time, the Government's draft law amends the Act of 15 February 1992 on corporate income tax and the Public Finance Act. During our work in the Committee on Public Finance on 20 July 2016, we considered proposals, suggestions and amendments of the Legislative Bureau to the article.: 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 25 and the title of the law itself. We agreed on a number of additions and legislative changes that were included in the committee's report in print No 748. In committee work, substantive amendments to the article were also tabled.: 8, 11, 14, 22 and 23. These amendments were accepted during the work of the committee. Amendment in Article 8 clarifies the provision by stating explicitly that the amount of the refund for the purchase of the fiscal cash register would be due to the centralisation of the accounts only to local government units which have so far been exempted from the use of the cash registers and which will have to apply them as a result of centralisation. Amendment in Article 11 is mainly intended to clarify the conditions for the possibility of extension at the time of the correction of the declarations by local government units. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of the words have been deleted, here I begin by quoting: if these accounts included the amounts of tax charged on the acquisition of goods and services financed by the funds earmarked for the implementation of projects in respect of which the local government unit was not obliged, pursuant to Article. 17, to be reimbursed for the implementation of the projects. This is where the quote ends. The words deleted shall be unnecessary in the context of the condition set out in point (a) above. and the point in question. The amendment in Article adopted by the Commission. 14 adds paragraph. 2, in order to clarify the provision by comprehensive coverage of these provisions also of periods of settlement for which the local government has failed to comply with this obligation, despite a declaration made on the date of submission of the other tax returns. Supplementary Article The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and the placing of plant protection products on the market. 2 makes, in the context of this amendment, the last words of Article so far. 14 become pointless and therefore it was necessary to delete those words with the original wording, here I begin by quoting: only when they relate to periods of settlement in respect of which the limitation period has not expired at the date of submission of these tax returns. This is where I finish my quote. The last amendment adopted during the work in the Committee on Public Finance concerns Article. 22 and Article 22 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 23. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 22 the wording of the paragraph has been This amendment clarifies the transitional provisions and aims mainly to eliminate doubts in situations where the local government has submitted corrections to tax returns before the date of entry into force of this Act, but they have been selectively submitted, not for all accounting periods. The aim of this provision is to align the situation of local authorities making adjustments to tax returns both before and after the date of entry into force of the Act. During the committee's work, doubts and questions were also reported. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 13, Art. 16 and Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general Finally, no other amendments were tabled at this stage of work. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I would like the High House to adopt a bill on the principles of settlement in the taxation of goods and services and to reimburse public funds for projects financed from the budget of the European Union or from the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units included in the committee's report in print No 748. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u530	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u531	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our club's opinion on the governmental draft bill on the rules of settlement in the tax on goods and services and on the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units, print Nos 709 and 748. The project, as you know, is aimed at the compulsory centralisation of VAT settlements in local governments, whereby all local authorities will be obliged to settle VAT together with all established agencies and budgetary establishments. In addition, I would like to remind you that the basis for preparing this regulation is the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of September. and the resolution of the Supreme Administrative Court, which consistently leaves no doubt about the need for centralisation of the VAT accounts in local governments. They point out that local authorities, as well as budget establishments, are not independent enough or fulfil many conditions to be regarded as taxable persons for goods and services. The proposed provisions have been designed to support local authorities in the implementation of centralisation and to minimise all the nuisances involved. The Committee on Public Finances has also paid attention to this during careful work on this project. To sum up, our club is in favour of adopting the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u532	Thank you. And Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u533	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform on the draft bill on the rules of settlement for goods and services tax and the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units. My short statement will consist of three parts. The first concerns the overall assessment, the second - the nature of the proposed law, and I will present the proposed amendments in the third, in fact one, because I will not be able to say more. Overall assessment. The impulse to work on the project, as has already been said here, was the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 29 September 2015 and following that judgment also the resolution of seven NSA judges of 26 October. Both the Court of Justice and the resolution of seven judges indicated the need to centralise the settlement of the tax on goods and services in local government units. It must be said that this law pursues the objective it sets itself, through an instrumentarium that is appropriate to achieve these objectives. You have to remember that - and here I go to the second point - that the nature of this law is very unusual. Normally, laws are brought in by the so-called. Normative novelty contains standards that enter into the system of law. This bill has a different role. For a number of years - I ignore the reasons - there has been a practice that is incompatible with EU law. This law aims at a systematic change in this practice. This is the nature of this bill. There were fruitful, important and interesting discussions at the committee meeting. Many have been changed in this bill. The Civic Platform Club also allows itself to present proposals for changes. I am presenting one of these amendments at the moment. It's in the article. 4 legal implications have been regulated. This provision, as it has been said so far, is all of the legal provisions and the obligations of the organisational units provided for in the tax legislation, this self-government unit becomes the successor of the law. I stress that the current provision says: in the VAT rules. So that doesn't apply, for example. Tax administration. Thus, the legal consequence does not concern interpretation, it does not concern procedural rights. This is a very incomplete solution. That is why we propose that this provision should be different. We propose the following wording: the local government unit whose organisational units accounted for themselves as separate taxpayers enters the tax settlement date together with all units [[♪ The bell ♪]] organising in all rights and obligations relating to the tax of its organisational units.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u534	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u535	In all rights and obligations relating to this tax...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u536	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u537	...and not just provided for in the tax legislation. Thank you very much. Please, make adjustments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u538	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u539	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I was honoured to present an opinion on the draft bill on the rules of settlement for goods and services tax and to reimburse public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units, print No 709. We have a revolutionary law, we have a very big challenge for local governments. We are undertaking to straighten out something that is not the fault of local governments, and, in order not to say so, even the rule of law by government and parliament, which has undoubtedly caused a bit of confusion among local governments themselves, who today have to deal with it. But for that to be good, it has to be accurate. Today, as a Member speaking on behalf of the club, I would like to draw attention to a detail that turns a lot of things around, i.e. as defined in Article. Point 2 (1) (a) Oh, it's about the definition of an organizational unit. At the moment, in the present version presented to us by the committee, we read: Whenever the law refers to an organizational unit, it means that the local government unit of the government or the local government institution of the budget is set up. Now such a remark - the consequence of the current entry is the exclusion from the centralization of VAT settlements in the district government of budgetary units such as: district labour offices, district building supervision inspectors, county fire department commands, social assistance houses, children's homes. They conduct or may sell subject to VAT, but these entities have not been set up by local authorities. This is an important element, which, ladies and gentlemen, will be dragonflies in further work. As we know, e.g. schools are created by the local government. Such an approach does not comply with the provisions of Directive 2006/112/EC on the basis of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 29 September 2015 in Case C 276/14 of the municipality of Wrocław v. Minister for Finance, as this will lead to the situation that outside the centralisation will remain: (a) budgetary units - separate VAT taxable persons - carrying out taxable sales; (b) the taxable entity benefiting from the exemption due to low turnover; (c) budgetary units potentially capable of carrying out taxable sales. None of these entities meets the independence criteria which have been raised and analysed in the aforementioned. judgment. It is therefore impossible for these entities to account for themselves as independent taxable persons for VAT, while there are no other entities that could include in their VAT accounts the economic transactions of those entities. It is therefore necessary to change the definition of an organisational unit by removing from the current definition the reservation that it is an entity created - i.e. we are talking about cutting out the creation - by the local government. The definition should therefore be: Whenever the law refers to an organisational unit, we mean a local government budgetary unit or a local government budgetary establishment. As a result of the adoption of such a definition of centralisation, all budgetary units and budgetary establishments, both those set up by the local government and those created by law, will be subject to such a definition of centralisation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Kukiz club15 pursuant to Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the hands of the Marshal I make this amendment and hope that the High House will accept it. This may be a small detail, but - once again - as a result, it cleans it up and then avoids unnecessary mess. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u540	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u541	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the Poselski Club Modern about the government draft law on special rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services in local government units, printing No 709 - I shorten this title a little bit - and the report, print No 748. Undoubtedly, the draft of this Act is very necessary for local government units, as it solves problems related to the definition of a taxable person's tax on goods and services in local government units. I would just like to remind you that since the entry into force of the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services, i.e. since 5 July 1993, there has been a single entity under the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services, the point is that the legal entity within the local government units is the legal person, which is the municipality, the county, the voivodeship, independent budgetary units and budgetary establishments. Thus, within one legal person, one budget, several, several tens, and even a few hundred taxpayers of the tax on goods and services were involved. This was the case until 2015, when, as a result of the beginning of the resolution of the composition of the seven Judges of the Supreme Administrative Court and the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it was found that the budgetary units under Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 are not subject to tax due to the fact that they are not independent entities of rights and obligations. Therefore, this change, which introduces centralisation of the settlement of the tax on goods and services. But, as has been said here before, indeed the devil is in the details of these provisions of the Goods and Services Tax Act. I'll pay attention to one rule, Art. The 10th bill we're investigating right now. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10 you introduce the State, the government, the right to reduce the amount of tax due for a change in the eligibility of the tax in the part relating to the amount of input tax. But you want to introduce this change to the state only when the local government unit makes a payment of this tax to the budget. And that's the right thing to do. You are merely setting a deadline in this provision until the date of entry into force of the Act. The date of entry into force of the Act is set on 1 September, so, imagine it, is a month to define, once, the amount of the tax on goods and services we are talking about, two, to provide in the budget the funds, three, to correct the budget by convening the session and correcting it. Such a short time limit makes the de facto implementation of all those provisions which are in this good law - Minister, good law - subject to question, because in principle there will be a situation in which local government units will not be able to exercise the right to reduce the tax due because of this short time limit. This will also result in a breach of the rules that apply under the Goods and Services Tax Act, i.e. the principles of neutrality of this tax. There will be claims of local government units and probably the Supreme Administrative Court will support the argument that this was too short a deadline and in fact prevented the exercise of the right to reduce the tax due on this project. Hence the Poselski Club The modern proposal proposes that reimbursement of those amounts previously received be made by the date of submission of the correction of the declarations referred to in Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2. This will ensure that the taxable person does not benefit twice from this amount of input tax, because if he makes a declaration, he will have to pay it back automatically on that date. I think that solves the problem, all the more so because, please pay attention, we provide this law with the possibility to submit a corrective declaration until the limitation period expires, and basically [[♪ The bell ♪]] in accordance with Article. Article 86 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 13, it's an incomplete statute of limitations, because it's only five years since the beginning of the year in which we acquired the law and even a year less.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u542	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u543	Hence the Poselski Club The modern one submits an amendment to this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u544	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u545	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the committee's report on the government draft law on specific rules - here we changed the title at the meeting of the committee - VAT settlements for local governments. I'm not gonna read the whole title. These are 709 and 748 prints. The Public Finance Commission yesterday examined the bill, generally speaking, concerning the centralisation of VAT settlements in local governments. In the course of this work, as a result of this work, the committee introduced a proposal, which has to be pointed out, a lot of changes and amendments. They were numerous, because they were really about practically every change in the proposed project and every article. They were only editorial. They were also made at the request of the Legal Office of the Sejm. On the other hand, a number of amendments are already based on the parliamentary proposal. They shall relate to Article. 8, 11, 14, 22 and 23. They were of a clear, orderly nature and in principle did not change the substance of the project. In view of this multitude of changes, mainly editorial and interpretation, I would like once again to express my concern at first reading, because the legislative process lacked the position of the party directly concerned, i.e. local self-government units, their associations or organisations. We do not even have an opinion or a position of the joint government and local government committee on this project. High Izbo! Not further than today, in this Chamber, we held a debate after submitting information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015. This information provided by the first President of the Supreme Court clearly indicates that the state of law is deteriorating. And that should cause us anxiety and lead us to change our conduct. Unfortunately, we have to admit that we have adopted law in general without consultation, as in this case, without further reflection, in haste and most often after time. And that's what this procedated project is today. The lack of any opinion on the proposed solutions of the local government party is indeed a huge failure to fulfil its obligations, as the process of centralising VAT settlements in individuals will be a process of great difficulty. It requires different organizational and technical solutions.This is a relatively complex settlement process. And given that these indications were lacking from the local government, and they would be very helpful and I am convinced that they would protect the High House from further repair of the law or amendment of the law in a short period of time. For legal reasons, the adoption of this project should be considered necessary. My predecessors have already reminded me of the judgment of the Court of Justice as well as the resolution of the Supreme Administrative Court. We have to do this. The Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled that bodies governed by public law, such as municipalities and budgetary units, cannot be regarded as taxable persons for VAT because they do not meet the criterion of independence. The centralization therefore includes the organisational units established by the local government, i.e. budgetary units and establishments, municipal offices, district old offices and marshal offices. According to the draft law, the centralisation of the accounts will be carried out at the same time as the possibility to decide on the adjustment of the accounts. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party despite these remarks of nature, I would say, procedurally, will vote in favour of this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's necessary. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u546	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my views on the report of the committee on the Government's draft bill on the rules of settlement in the tax on goods and services and on the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units, print Nos 709 and 748. The need to implement this regulation is the consequence of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of the municipality of Wrocław v Minister of Finance concerning value added tax. It follows from the judgment that Directive 2006/112/EC must be interpreted as meaning that bodies governed by public law, such as municipal budgetary units which are the subject of the main proceedings, cannot be regarded as taxable persons of value added tax because they do not meet the criterion of independence laid down in that provision. Those entities shall not bear or be liable for any economic risk associated with the economic activity entrusted to them to carry out on behalf of and on behalf of the municipality or for any damage caused by that activity. In addition, the question of VAT was settled by the Supreme Administrative Court, which, in the composition of seven judges in connection with the decision of the NSA of 17 March 2015, adopted a resolution on 26 October 2015. In the light of this resolution, it should be considered that budgetary establishments, such as the budgetary units of local government units, do not have a tax separation under the provisions on goods and services tax. The consequence of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the resolution of the Supreme Administrative Court is to centralise the accounts of the units established by the local government in the field of VAT in the municipalities, district old offices and marshal offices. What is the purpose of the bill? It provides local authorities with legal instruments both to support the process of centralisation in formal terms and to minimise the burden associated with it. The draft law provides for the succession of local government units which, as of the date on which VAT is cleared together with all organisational units, no later than 1 January 2017, will enter all rights and obligations in so far as they relate to the tax of their business units, including those which have not ceased to be an isolated VAT taxable person. This provision will ensure the succession of rights and obligations and will apply mutatis mutandis to settlements for periods prior to the date on which the tax is settled. While problems may arise when local government units accept the proportion of the tax calculation for each business unit, including for the office serving the local government unit operating in the form of a local government unit, in the case of carrying out tax-tax activities and tax-free activities with the help of that business unit, it is to be hoped that local authorities in practical operation will develop appropriate methods of management accounting to overcome these difficulties. In this situation, it is incomprehensible, and it should actually be regarded as a great lack of this legislation, that the position of local authorities on the draft law has not been obtained. There is no position of local government corporations or individual municipalities, both the Polish County Association and the voivodships. During the work in the Committee on Public Finance, amendments were made, mainly of a technical nature, by the Legislative Office of the Sejm. They make the law more coherent and more friendly in applying to taxpayers from local self-government units. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote in favour of the bill submitted to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u548	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Mirosław Pampuch has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't think this is the last centralizing act. I do not know how the Ministry will deal with state organisational units here, because by adopting a methodology both from the judgment of the European Court of Justice and from a resolution taken in the composition of seven judges, the Treasury is a legal person, and within the State Treasury there are budgetary organisational units. But it's just for the record. My question concerns Art. 113. It is known that centralisation will result in the loss of a large proportion of schools, kindergartens, other small entities whose value of taxable sales does not exceed 150,000. Therefore, the municipalities will already settle the tax due on taxable sales. What is the scale of this tax due and whether the Ministry provides for any compensation for local government units under their income [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, as part of a grant and an education grant? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u550	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u551	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When comparing the original government bill with the report presented by the rapporteur, the report by the Committee on Public Finance, we see that an amendment to the article has been introduced. 8 by changing the sound of the mouth. 3. I have a question for the rapporteur: What was the reason for this change, and what is it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u552	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u553	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the project we will find traces of consultation with local government, I have no doubt about it. Moreover, the explanatory memorandum states that there is a consultation, although it is a shame that there is no report, as it is said that there is a separate report on these consultations. So the consultation took place. As I say, if we read the rules, we find in many places that they actually took place. Therefore, if consultations have been carried out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is this: What are the different positions of local government and the Ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u554	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u555	I would ask for an answer, because it shows the full picture, the background to the drafting of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u556	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u557	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I will answer Mr Pampuch's question. Indeed, schools have lost their individual exemption, but on the other hand, if an entity becomes a VAT taxable person, the advantage is the possibility of deduction of input tax, which is in fact an advantage. As for the scale, the effect, I have no information about it. Full agreement on what Mr Nykiel said. Indeed, this is a law on which work began to be carried out immediately after the judgment was delivered, i.e. in September 2015. Since October 2015, work has been carried out together with the Public Finance System Team of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. What you were worried about was that there was no position of the joint committee, is precisely what the professor is talking about, which is really because of some differentness. I'll talk about these differences in a moment. In general, there were many meetings. Already in January, the first project was launched, which was widely consulted with the joint committee, with individual local authorities. The attention was very, very much. In April a second project came up, which was already, say, the result of the comments of the local government units and the committee itself. In fact, since May, there has been a phase of government work. With regard to Mr Nykiel's question, the main, most important reason for the disagreement is the issue of interest and the question of interest related to the return of European funds and corrections. Well, we have had a sketch, in any case it was visible, between some of the local governments that actually benefited widely from European funds, and those local authorities that had less use of European funds. In fact, this regulation has led to a dividing line and an inability to reach a uniform position within the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. I hope that in the committee, which was the question, we will already be discussing individual amendments, but with regard to the question whether Mr Maciejewski's amendment, namely the issue of organisational units created by the local government, this is the part that he wants to change Mr Maciejewski, is the result of the consultation. Self-governments do not want to centralize the county labour office and individual individuals, and in this sense the words are written: the result is precisely that local governments wanted to limit the scale of this centralization. Therefore, Mr Maciejewski's proposal is contrary to the position of local government units. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u558	Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Jerzy Gosievski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u559	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! To answer Mrs Iwona Michalek's question on the article. 8 of this law, I would like to inform you that in the article. The first part of paragraph 8 is amended. 3. This amendment clarifies the provision by unambiguously stating that the amount of the refund on the purchase of a fiscal cashier would benefit the local government unit only in connection with the centralisation of the accounts, i.e. to equip those local government units which have so far been exempted from the use of cash registers and which will have to apply them as a result of centralisation. I wanted to thank all the parliamentary clubs very much for supporting this law, because this law is really very much needed by local government units. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u560	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26. of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws (Print No 680). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamisz to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u561	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In a special way, the candidate in the election for President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda declared that he would pursue a policy aimed at reducing the retirement age and linking pension rights with employment. High Izbo, almost 120,000. citizens reach out with a helping hand. It has been over 14 months since this declaration of solidarity, which has been submitted to a trade union, by the National Commission on Solidarity. Mr. President didn't deliver on his promise. This week, the government has been dealing with the President's proposal, which is in the freezer. It is surprising that it has already been submitted twice to the Sejm, that it is still frozen by Marshal Kuchciński and the parliamentary majority. This proposal was not really dealt with at this meeting, so the citizens gathered. We represent today not the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, but almost 120 thousand. our compatriots who want to include their internship as one of the grounds for retirement. It was a few weeks of talks with Poles during the signing collection in various localities. I visited ok myself. 40 places where I've been collecting signatures. I remember a good meeting with Mrs. Catherine in Skierniewice, who said: I started working at the age of 16. I'm already 43 years of internship. I could use this law, I could retire, because the retirement age of this 60 years, or even with these changes, will not be reached for a few years. This is a good alternative, this is a good reason for moving forward, not going back to the solutions of the Polish People's Republic. This is an innovative solution that introduces internship as one of the choices for retirement. That's an offer. especially for those who have worked hard for many, many years, for workers, for craftsmen, for farmers, for nurses, for those who start their professional activities early. This project is not the first time presented in this House, but I hope that it will be the first time that we have had a second reading. This is, moreover, the promise made by the PiS in the election campaign that you will not reject any civil project at first reading. Today, the citizens' initiative, we as its representatives tell you: I am checking. You didn't reject secular school. It was even surprising in many circles that you voted to continue working on the civic project to remove religion from schools. It surprised me personally, but then you showed the responsibility and faithfulness of the principle you accepted. We'll see if that happens in this case. This project is financially viable. The financial impact is calculated for 2016, because we wanted it to enter into force from the beginning of this year, that was the possibility. Unfortunately, the votes of the Modern and Platform, with the abstentions of the PiS, were rejected. That is why we have appealed to the citizens. And this project could have come in from January 1st. Unfortunately, you didn't even want to discuss it on the committee. This project offers an opportunity to make changes without budgetary complications, without opposition by the Minister of Finance, who, as the media report, expressed his opposition to the President's proposal. He was not alone in this, he was supported by Prime Minister Gowin, Prime Minister Morawiecki - this is the information from this week, as the media reported. So that would also make up for the turbulent parties in the government. This is, I think, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a worthy proposal to reconcile the more liberal in the government with the more social ones. Two reasons that would entitle them to retire, i.e. retirement age and internship, would also be good for pensions, because work placements better reflect the value of retirement benefits, because it affects them directly. Today, retirement depends on how much contributions we raise, how long we work and at what age we retire. So it's also for modern liberals that is a proposal that shows that activity is important. Professional activity is important and affects our retirement. This is a much more rational idea than the ones reported and not implemented for several months by the President. Ladies and gentlemen, this project is well known to all of you. You have a chance to join the President's project in September and discuss it together. It would be such an interesting discussion about the future of the pension system. Is he just going to go back to the pattern, or is he going to go back to innovative solutions? We were appalled, and it is difficult not to mention this, today's information, and in fact the communication that came out after the Council of Ministers meeting on Tuesday, today quotes the Newspaper of Legal Affairs, showing what your proposal is for farmers. It is often said that this project is aimed only at farmers, 40 years of working experience. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: He is.]] No, it's not, it's not, it's aimed at hard-working people. A colleague from Modern Poland is only mentioned here about farmers, and I am pleased as a representative and president of PSL, but this also applies to other professions, concerning craftsmen, workers, those who started work earlier. But what happened this week, ladies and gentlemen, which raises great concern already today in this case in the Polish countryside and in the Polish farmers? This is an outrageous and curial decision of the government expressed in the opinion. Against that, I think, there will be huge protests. Under the age reduction coat, you raise the farmer's age. I do not know whether all Members of the PiS realise what the PiS government adopted at its last meeting and what decision it had taken. [[We pass, we don't extend.]] Information from the Prime Minister, Prime Minister. gov.pl, I would like to quote as regards changes in the retirement age: For individual farmers, the retirement age should be reduced without the possibility to switch to the so-called. early retirement, i.e. 55 and 60 years old, 55 years old for women, 60 years old for men, 30 years in KRUS. We as the Polish People's Party maintained this age until the end of 2017. Now we are taking the initiative to extend it for another five years, and you want to raise the retirement age of farmers. The PiS government raises the retirement age for farmers, so you inform the Prime Minister on your sites. This is an undoubted scandal. I didn't expect it, I'll be honest. Minister, I'm going to ask you to answer the question of whether it's true or not, if it's true, that you want to leave the age of 55 and 60 for farmers. You guys have been making a big fuss lately about a row in the government, about these disputes, and you're really leaking that kind of information out there somewhere. The second thing is that you will not be able to combine professional activity with pension collection. Of course, these issues were questioned by the Constitutional Tribunal that this is a right and it is an opportunity to combine professional activity, to make money, because many pensions may not be enough and with strength, they will want to earn more. This can reconcile all of us, especially those different centers in the PiS, which are becoming more and more clear. This was already evident at the Constitutional Court Act when young Members wanted to compromise, the hard-headed blocked it. I see that this dispute may be even stronger in pension matters. There's a chance to reconcile the conflicted parties. I would like to thank all Poles, our countrymen, who signed up for a civic project: 40 years of work and good retirement. I would like to thank all those who have collected these signatures who have been actively involved in this process. I would like to thank all those who have preached and passed on this information. There is a huge opportunity and many people hope that this project will find its dignified place. And there will be two conditions in Poland: retirement age and internship, and we will not go backwards in solutions, but we will move forward and adopt innovative solutions. On behalf of the citizens' legislative committee, when presenting this law, I ask the High House to move on to further work, to refer this law to work in committees, to engage in a real discussion, to promote more than 120 000. signatures under this project, serious consideration of the possibility of discussing the pension system in which Poles, in which they are actively involved, want to move on to further work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u562	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Mosiński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u563	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to reassure Minister Kosiniak-Kamish. The government unanimously assessed the presidential project, so that in September we start working on the bill. [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Right.]] There are no opponents and supporters, as you have suggested here, that there is some conflict between the three ministers and the rest of the cabinet of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The Prime Minister is a good helmsman and has a solid, consolidated team. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to the High House a statement to the citizens' draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act and certain other laws contained in print No 680. The de facto project is a project of the Polish People's Party, which does not have the courage to admit the mistake made in 2012, i.e. raising the retirement age for men and women. Polish People's Party together with the Civic Platform in 2012 decided on the basis of which Poles would work until their death. I stress this threat by accepting data from the Central Statistical Office. Well, so-called. The average life expectancy of a 30 - year - old with a higher education is 12 years longer than that of his peers with a professional education. Those with vocational education entered the labour market earlier than their peers who took up work lately through their studies. As a result, the health status of the first group of people, those with vocational education, often prevents them from continuing their work after 60 years of age. The diversity of health and the duration of life is also affected by the place of residence. There are significant differences between voivodships and the city and the village. According to CUS data, almost 30% of men will not live to 67 years and 25% will live to see - Sixty-five. - Sixty-five. the year of age. [[What are you saying?]] This means that more than one quarter of men will not live to retirement age. [[Bullshit.]] These will be people from small urban and rural centres. So I don't know who the applicants represent. After all, any proposal for amendments contained both in the existing pension law and in the civil law by the name of the bill is an act to the detriment of those persons. The bill contains one major amendment, namely the right to retire to insured persons who have not reached the statutory retirement age. This right would be granted to insured persons who have a premium period of at least 40 years to pay a pension premium on the basis of a minimum wage. At this point I will ask a rhetorical question: How many such lucky people who meet your criteria are currently in Poland? Applicants represented by PSL leaders - which confirms that it is fiction to talk about the citizenship of the project - still... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Who signed?]] ...they're gonna keep us working until we die. I state this on the basis of the justification for the draft pension law, in which applicants maintain the validity of the gradual extension of their working life, claiming that this is the only way to obtain a higher pension. The question should be asked here: How many entitled 60-year-olds will live to see their retirement? Not many. I am sending applicants to what I said earlier, namely that 1/4 of men will not live to the age of 67. The situation may be similar among women. [[Where's the data coming from?]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Seym has already presented a presidential project that abolishes the obligation to work for women and men up to 67 years old, leaving a choice whether to retire at the age of 60 - women and 65 - men. Thus, we change the rules for retirement to the benefit of those who are over-exploited and whose applicants are required to demonstrate at least a 40-year contribution period. Who today has such a premium period? A small group of people. A small part of the population - especially women - worked on the so-called. Trash cans. What do these people have to offer the applicant? Work till death. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Given that a comprehensive pension bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland is already being proceded in the Sejm, it would be unreasonable to direct the citizens' project to further work in the committee. Dualism in this case is not advisable. At this point I would like to remind you of the bad practices which for 8 years used the Polish People's Party together with the Civic Platform. These practices were based on the fact that all citizens' initiatives, so millions of signatures submitted under billings... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: A good change was to be made.]] ... ended up in a proverbial shredder. [[Game in the O.R.]] On the other hand, I would like to recall the words of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, who has repeatedly confirmed that if the Law and Justice win the election... [[Did the president agree?]] ...we will stop with the anti-democratic practice of rejecting citizens' projects, preventing them from being allowed into the legislative process. This declaration was repeated before the High House of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Therefore, I will not submit on behalf of the Law and Justice Club an application for rejection at first reading of the civil project in print No 680. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Ha, ha, ha.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I propose that the High Sejm direct the citizens' bill to amend the Social Insurance Fund's pension law and certain other laws for further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u564	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u565	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The shape of the pension system should always be adapted to the demographic situation of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010, the proportion of people over 65 years of age was 14%. But in 2060 it will be ok. 35%. The ageing of society has a fundamental impact on its functioning. Why? Because the relationship between the size of the working group and the size of the group of people who have ceased economic activity is fundamentally changing. That's what you should all know. This was also the main reason - and, I stress, the huge responsibility, even at the expense of polls for political parties, for the Civic Platform and PSL - for which the previous government introduced an extension of the retirement age. It was we who could afford to make this very difficult but very responsible decision in the context of the very demographic data I presented. And every citizen should know, and the rulers today in particular, that today's pension is calculated on the basis of contributions that are deducted monthly from salaries. When a woman or a man retires, what was collected by them and recorded in the account in the Social Security Office is simply divided by the estimated life expectancy, as defined by the Central Statistical Office. So in order for future pensions to allow life at all, because they will not be so high, there is no way out, it is necessary to put aside as long as possible. Today, governments are talking about reversing this reform, but they don't talk so much about the fact that these pensions will be really hungry, 30, 40% lower. , and even more. However, the government is aware that there is no other option, and people need to work longer. Therefore, from this opinion, which we have heard here earlier, the government's opinion, we already know that there will be a ban on making money for these pensions, so de facto people will have to work longer, otherwise they will not survive with these starving pensions. How does this bill work? First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it does not overturn the aims of the reform, because it maintains an even, extended retirement age for men and women. The Act gives, yes, the possibility to retire before reaching the statutory retirement age, but in a very special situation, i.e. having a long period, I note, a premium, actually of as much as 40 years. So, in fact, it gives rise to a long stay in the labour market and only in this case gives a choice either further work or retirement - a smaller but no longer hungry, as in the case of a complete reversal of this reform, a withdrawal of it, especially in a very severe way for women, because it is women who will not really have anything to live for, because they mostly have too long a non-contributory period in relation to the contributory period of men. Therefore, it is worth working on such a solution presented in this citizens' bill. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform also requests that this bill be referred to a second reading in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u566	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u567	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the club's position on the revision of the Pension Act, the Citizens' Project. The Sejm was visited by a citizens' project amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. The two-month delay for the citizens' legislative initiative is far too long. Presenting the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, it is important to stress the role of draft laws submitted by citizens in the legislative process. The future of the pension system in Poland is fragile. My previous speaker pointed out here how important this is. I see the involvement of Members of the Platform in this important citizens' initiative, and unfortunately, you are the only representative. What to do, such times. [[Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: But what!]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But what!]] But what's that, too, that's for sure. [[Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: I said everything.]] Unfortunately, the future of the pension system in Poland is shaky. Trouble for good began with the creation of open pension funds. The partyocracy has lost its head, citizens have been sold a vision of dreams, and reality and these dreams are at this point a completely different situation. The pension system was not and is not prepared for this moment, to change the balance of the population. Labour migration has been misestimated, it is enough to submit data for 2015 according to the CSO short analysis: negative population growth - 42,000, negative foreign migration balance per permanent stay - 16,000. persons. This shows that the supply of funds to the system will decline. The ratio of the non-productive population to the working age population is 5 to 3. Natural growth at 1,000. Poland's population amounted to minus 0.7 last year. It is common for a pensioner not to maintain a pension, so the recipient must take additional employment in order to maintain himself at all. In order to justify the amendment of the Act, the designers have characterised the transformations in the pension system since 1999. Longer professional activity was supposed to mean higher pension benefits. In this reform, the projectors propose that people who have worked for at least 40 years may exercise their right to retirement. The citizens' bill contains provisions authorising the right to a pension regardless of age, where the insured person's required internship is a guarantee of the right to pension benefits. It is of particular importance for Members of the European Union that the actual percentage of citizens from the Polish population under the proposed regulations be covered by the right to retire for persons with at least a 40-year contribution period. Another important point is that farmers get a pension. The projectors also request that the holder of an agricultural holding subject to pension insurance for a period of at least 30 years may benefit from the right to a pension irrespective of sex and biological age. We are in favour of referring the bill to further work in Parliament's committees, but we also need to draw some conclusions. It should be stressed that the project is part of a discussion with at least the dual system of people covered by the general pension system. The President of the Republic has also submitted to the Sejm a proposal for amendments to the pension law. Since 1 January 2013, the provisions and the establishment of the right to and the amount of the pension, the practical calculation of which is contested by the Ombudsman, have changed. The idea of linking the retirement age with the requirement of an adequate traineeship - 35 years and 40 years for men - is also a proposal of trade unions and it is the same as the proposal of a civil project. The pension system needs to be made more flexible so that early retirement is the responsibility of the insured person. You have to add one thing here. This civic project is not a retirement age project, this civic project is back to the actual age that should be stopped even then, and the change that followed the previous coalition was incompatible with the feelings of citizens. Luckily, it's partly repaired. How is it generally possible to proceed on this project to the declaration of the President of the Republic? I think this would have to be a correlation between the citizens' project and the presidential project in order to reach a common consensus. We also need to think and take responsibility for managing the resources of people who are currently active. It can't be that we have the resources of the people who are working right now, and what about them? That, too, must be taken into account. One thing is important: pushing citizens out of our country through previous failed governments also caused this situation, 3 million people working for pensions in other countries [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's what you have to pay attention to. Kukiz.15 is in favour of directing the project to further work, so that the process is carried out properly, for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u568	Thank you and I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u569	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are debating a citizens' bill on the change of the pension system, which was signed by 115,695 citizens, which means that citizens feel that the pension system, the respectable rulers, does not work in Poland and needs to be brought into order, but not necessarily as proposed by the President. Unfortunately, the citizens' bill is not an innovative idea because in June 2015 PSL Members submitted an identical bill. [[Yes. We're not hiding.]] Both of these projects assume the possibility of retirement before reaching the statutory retirement age... [[We're consistent.]] ... subject to having a 40-year contribution period in respect of pensions from the Social Security Office, and a 40-year period under agricultural insurance in respect of pensions from the Social Security Office. Unfortunately, the PSL project was stuck in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and remained there. I think that's why we are consistently debating the citizens' project today. Retirement would depend on deferred contributions and life expectancy. In the case of persons whose benefits are thus calculated less than the minimum pension, the budget would be paid up to the minimum pension. This project would allow farmers to receive pensions at the age of 56 - for those who, for example, They started work at the age of 16. Unfortunately, this project has many flaws. The benefits thus obtained will be very low, as even the authors of the project agree. The increase in pension expenditure while reducing the revenue from contributions is, according to the authors of the bill, a cost of less than... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Well, they'll probably be taller.]] ... PLN 2 billion in the first year of application of the Act to PLN 3.4 billion in the fourth year following its introduction, provided that only one in every four eligible persons will benefit from the rights. Here is the question: What is this assumption supported by, and how do we know that every fourth, not every fifth, not every third? I don't know, maybe everyone's gonna take advantage of it. Thus, this number of eligible persons is not estimated, this is not an argument supporting this law. A lot more people are expected to benefit from early retirement. In addition, it is expected that in this group, due to the increasing life expectancy and the low accumulated contributions resulting from the fact that this reform may affect low-skilled people, there will be a high proportion of people whose benefits will be calculated below the minimum pension, so there will be additional budgetary costs in the form of minimum pension payments. It is already known today that the pension from KRUS is only 10% financed by contributions from insured persons, up to 90% from the state budget, i.e. taxes of all citizens. My question is: Have all citizens been asked if they want to contribute 56-year-old farmers to pensions? Because it's a little unfair. This law favours farmers and clearly gives certain privileges in this matter. And what raises my biggest doubts: is this project constitutional? Art. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution says: "Citizen has the right to social security in the event of incapacity for work due to illness or disability and after reaching retirement age. Therefore, making the payment of the pension conditional on the period of payment of contributions and work seems to be contrary to the Constitution. The authors point out that similar solutions operate in many countries of the European Union, but it is true that most European Union countries are withdrawing from such solutions and tend to raise their retirement age, because that is the trend in the European Union. The proposed bill aims primarily at transferring additional transfers to the CRUS. Only those with low qualifications will benefit from this solution. However, it will be an apparent benefit because the benefits received will be very low, in most cases at the minimum pension level, due to the projected long retirement period. This will also dramatically increase the budget contribution to minimum pensions. A precise estimate of the costs of the reform is very difficult, mainly due to the lack of data. Undoubtedly, some physically incriminating professions cannot be performed by the majority of older people. As a result of raising the retirement age, this problem will increase - here full agreement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, offering these people a life of about 20 years as a starvation pension is hardly a solution. A better idea would be to allow such people to be retrained to do lighter work and facilitate the emergence of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u570	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u571	...and adapting jobs to the needs of the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u572	Thank you very much and I would like to ask Mrs Andzelika Możjanovska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u573	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! First, I will refer to Mr Mosiński's words. Doctor, with all due respect to you, if 65 and 67 years is a job to the death, it's medicine for a senior at 75 years of age who are they for? [[A study of the CSO, Member.]] Today we are talking about the best, simplest, and most just solution. Presented and discussed today the bill signed by more than 115 thousand. voters, supported by, among others, by OPZZ and, in addition, in line with the demands of most trade unions, including the "Solidarity," it is precisely one of the best, simplest and most equitable solutions that we can adopt, so that at least in this area Polish law can be effective, but at the same time simple, fair and transparent and giving Poles the opportunity to spend a peaceful autumn of life. The project clearly sets out simple rules - 40 years of contributions for everyone, for men and women, for the hairdresser, nurse, farmer and accountant. If someone started working earlier and paid their contributions, it is clear that he should have the right to early retirement. Why do I think this is the simplest solution that voters expect of us? Because there is a simple and most important argument - 40 years of payment of contributions, which contains all the necessary conditions for how much work needs to be done in order to benefit from the pension. Simple, clear and transparent rules. Ladies and gentlemen! Messengers and Members of the Governing Party! Please prove to the voters today that you care about simple, clear and transparent rules - not blurring, confusing and hiding thousands of legal loopholes in the solutions being prepared, but simply writing: 40 years of paying contributions. It can't be easier. You don't have to tell anybody not to retire later, you don't have to send anybody in early. It is every Pole himself who will decide when he wants to rest and take full advantage of the fall of his life, but everyone will be entitled to retire after 40 years of paying contributions. This solution cuts through the discussion once and for all about future problems or shortcomings in the budget of the Social Insurance Institution. It's up to the future pensioner to decide when, but he'll have the right after 40 years of paying contributions. Isn't this a simple and fair solution, devoid of patriotic color, dear parliamentarians Kukiz?15? Isn't this, my fellow Members of the modern world, a fully market-driven mechanism - you have been paying contributions for 40 years, and after this period you have the right to a pension? Can it be better, my fellow Members of the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice, to reconcile the dispute, whether it is 67, 65 or perhaps 60 years for women or men? In a minute, some of us are going to be buzzing out of this podium, and they're already doing that, we're reporting a good project, and what we've been doing for eight years. I answer: this is a very good project and thank you for this opinion. At the same time, please bear in mind that for the last eight years we have fought to ensure that pro-social solutions and giving seniors a chance at a worthy autumn of life are right to be. I hope that today we will be able to show Poles that there are topics in which we can rise above the party divisions, and the real problems and needs of Poles were and are the most important in this Chamber. I will remind the PiS Members of the fact about which, I hope, you will remember: on 5 May 2015 in Warsaw, your presidential candidate not only promised, but also in writing committed himself to the National Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity that he will introduce pension rights with an internship. This is the agreement, the agreement on behalf of Poles and Poles. A few hundred unionists are gonna be looking at this tonight. And tomorrow, how will you vote? Will you live up to your promises and promises from the election campaign? Today the Poles will say: Checking. To conclude, the President's pension proposal submitted last year was due to start in January 2016. You're dragging the job forever. It was not until this week that the government adopted a positive opinion on the project, but as the head of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers stated, the return to pensions will take place in October 2017 at the earliest, and you will probably introduce it before the next elections, while in the presidential and parliamentary campaigns you announced rapid changes. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's position on the presidential project, as President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish said, about reducing the retirement age, is to reduce everyone and to raise farmers to 60 and 65 years old. Dear farmers, this is a thank you for your hard work and your voices, the voices of trust in the Polish village. It's a good change for farmers according to the PiS. Today, an increase in retirement age, probably. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a moment, the KRUS will be eliminated. On behalf of 115,000. citizens and the Polish People's Party's Parliamentary Club, I request that work be undertaken on the project in the Parliamentary Committees and a quick adoption of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u574	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u575	...expected changes in pensions of Poles and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u576	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Circle of the Polish Free and Solidarni towards the citizens' draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. Pensions and pensions, their amount and the conditions for receiving them are of interest to many Poles. Each of us knows best what our Polish pension system should look like, and what should be the amount of benefit we should receive to live a decent and peaceful life. The problem is that many of us have different ideas about this. When pension reforms were carried out in 1999, a clear, fair system was tried to organise pension insurance. How'd that work out? Big profits for pension funds and penny payments for pensioners. The proposed amendment assumes that retirement would be possible after having worked for at least 40 years. Forty-year period of payment of pension contributions would give the insured person the opportunity to benefit from the pension right, but would be an individual decision of the insured person each time. According to the developer, such a provision in the Act would be an incentive to extend professional activity. Pension reform is necessary, and that does not give rise to any doubt. It should be targeted at real social needs and conditioned by changes in the demography of Poland, and this is also obvious. However, it must take account of the budgetary capacity of the state and not lead to a imbalance in the stability of payments for Polish pensioners and pensioners. Is this the solution proposed by the proposed bill? We don't know. The reasons for calculating the costs of implementing the amendment are schematic. As far as costs are concerned, in 2016 projectors expect to increase expenditure on pensions and reduce the revenue from contributions of PLN 1.7 billion, but already in 2017 expenditure is expected to amount to PLN 3.2 billion. The costs are high and these estimates have been made with an additional assumption that only one out of every four eligible persons will benefit from the possibility of early retirement. In addition, the main weakness of the project is to maintain the extended retirement age introduced by the PO and PSL coalition in the previous term of the Sejm. Despite the many ambiguities raised by the proposed amendment, on behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni, I ask for further investigation of this law so that doubts can be verified during further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u578	Thank you very much, Member. 18 MPs signed up for the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. Question time - 1 minute. Please, Mr Jan Warzech is the first question to be asked. I'm asking you to follow the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u579	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Colleagues from the Polish People's Party behave inconsistently. When you were in charge of the coalition with the PO in 2012, you increased your retirement age to 67 years. Despite our strong opposition, you have extended your working time for women by seven years, in agriculture - up to 12 years... [[No.]] ...men - two years in agriculture - seven years. This has met with a negative response from most of the population. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: It's not like that.]] There will be time to speak later. When you were in charge, you also ignored 1,400 grand. signatures under the request for a referendum on this matter, collected by the trade unionists of Solidarity within 2 months, I repeat: within 2 months. I don't know how long it took you to collect those 120,000. The Law and Justice and Trade Union laws have challenged the Constitutional Tribunal, accusing, inter alia, the Court of Justice. breach of the principle of trust in the State and its law, social justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the protection of acquired rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u580	Thank you, sir. [[I didn't ask you a question.]] And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Navel. There isn't. In that case, I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Chechara. There isn't. This is Mrs Anna April. There isn't any either. Then it is Mr Stefan Romecki, who is for sure. West Pomerania, semper fidelis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u581	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question one. Are you aware of Eurostat data, which says that by 2060 the number of people of post-production age will increase from 6312 thousand. to 10 376 thousand. people and the number of people of working age will decrease from 24 555 000. up to 17 502 000 People? How is your project designed to prevent this demographic disaster? Second question. Do you believe that, thanks to your project, young people will receive decent pensions, given that, if they want to maintain the current replacement rate, the average net pension ratio to the average net wage, which is now around 60%, those from the yearbooks from 1988 to 1995, who have recently started working, will be able to retire? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only at the age of 77, 78? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u582	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Eve Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u583	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask if a group of people who have paid their pension contributions for at least 40 years is decreasing each year. In recent years, in the period when Mr Kosiniak-Kamish was Minister of Labour, informal employment methods have been widely used with a high unemployment rate. Most of the salaries thus obtained were uncovered. In this way, the number of people with a shorter premium period and lower amounts collected in insured accounts increased in each subsequent year reaching retirement age. This may lead to greater demand for social assistance in the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u584	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u585	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is only indirectly related to the bill being proceded. In view of the numerous media reports on the duration of work on a new way of calculating the revalorisation of pensions since 2017, I wanted to ask: Is there a comprehensive government project that amends the Pension and Pensions Act paid from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u586	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ursula Rusecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u587	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A slight digression addressed to Mr Sitarski. You haven't read this bill because you leave 67 years as a retirement age. I have a question. What kind of hand did you talk about, sir? Law and Justice can really do it, and that's what you're afraid of. The Law restoring retirement age will certainly be passed. Isn't the citizens' project, and indeed the Law and Justice, sometimes the task of covering this disgraceful attitude and decision of the governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, which you have extended the retirement age, and you, Mr President of the Tripartite Committee, have led to the collapse of social dialogue. Did you then listen to the citizens, of whom 85% was it against extending the retirement age? It's really the height of hypocrisy in your release. What I'm trying to say is, it's a quote, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Quite famous...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u588	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u589	...the devil wears an ornament and a tail for the Mass is ringing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u590	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u591	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Speaker! Minister of Labour and Social Policy of the PO-PSL Government! Mr President of the Commission for Social Dialogue in the years of the fall of this dialogue. It's not a good project at all. "Solidarity rejects a definitive 67-year-old, please remember that. And please don't support the agreement of Solidarity with the President. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: This is a secret agreement?]] No, but this agreement is about a completely different age. You had eight years in the government of PO and PSL to make positive changes in pensions. Instead, you've extended your retirement age to 67 years. Today you're supporting 120,000. The signatures, and you and Platform have ground 2.5 million signatures. No shame? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u592	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u593	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! I wouldn't care what the PiS says, because it's not true. We have evidence. [[Applause]] They've been reducing retirement age for a year now. The president lowered, the government gathers every week, lowers retirement age. They can't even pick up their drafts. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] For 2 days they raise and the effect is zero. Which thing has been accomplished? Even 500+, I'd say ugly, spoiled. So my question is, if a reduction in the retirement age brings costs, it is good, and if we lower the retirement age for those who have spent it, and it is practically free, then it is wrong? [[They'll put it on their backs.]] Ironic. One's good, the other's bad. As an example, even what you used to adopt as an AWS, which is a pension system, you're also blowing up right now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're gonna blow it right now, too. Sir, you're smashing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u594	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u595	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! When I listened to Mr Jan Mosiński's speech, I had the impression that he would have wanted Poles to actually work until death, which he probably repeated three times. The Member does not want or cannot understand the intentions of the citizens' bill. Well, when you're so obsessed, it's hard to understand the simplest things. Minister! Under the current law, farmers can retire by the end of 2017: women aged 55, men aged 60. I ask you: After the adoption of the presidential bill, will Polish farmers be able to retire: women after 55 years and men after 60 years? And second question: Will Poles and Poles be able to retire before reaching retirement age [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the case of 60-year-old women and 65-year-old men, if...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u596	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u597	...they'll work 40 years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u598	And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, about the Commissioner's digression - it would really be nice if this age was 65, really. There's at least an attempt to rehabilitate PSL, [[Applause]] At least an attempt to simply support the citizens' project, because I see that the Civic Platform already has all the resources on the third pillar, so there's probably no topic here. [[Applause]] [[Mr President, you have not read this.]] As far as my questions are concerned, they relate to the prospects of the Social Insurance Fund following the entry into force of the proposed provisions of the amendment to the Act when it comes to a retirement internship. Once it has been established that the insured person fulfils the conditions for granting the pension, the pension insurance undertaking shall notify OFE of the application and the obligation to transfer all the funds collected in the account in the open pension fund to the FUS. The refund to the FUS for the loss of contributions to open pension funds amounted to billions, and I will no longer quote, because time is running out. Will loan needs increase [[♪ The bell ♪]] the state budget for the enlarged commitments of the ZUS?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u600	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u601	And if there's going to be an acceleration...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u602	Thank you kindly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u603	...of FUS expenses for payment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u604	Thank you, sir, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u605	...a pension in the amount of registered contributions and...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u606	(PL) Mr President, Mr President,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u607	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u608	Less digression at the beginning, you have to go straight to the question and then you can easily fit in time. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u609	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll give up purely political rhetoric. [[Applause]] and I will pay particular attention to the problem by addressing the Member of the applicant. Isn't it true that there is a huge number of people on the labour market who started their professional activities in a vocational school, a basic vocational school, and for 40 years they made quite decent money, paid appropriate contributions, and today, after 40 years of working in jobs that required physical activity, they often find themselves in a very difficult health and material situation, which often also requires medical expenditure? Isn't that the only way to reach out to these people? Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u610	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Miazga.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u611	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish People's Party tries to partially correct its error from the previous term of the Sejm, when together with the Civic Platform raised the retirement age. Why is the new law proposed today not about reducing pensions for communist security officials? It would be logical to reduce absurdly high Ubec and Esbec pensions, and compensate anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons... I have a question: Why doesn't Polish People's Party see such a need? [[Voice from the room: Fold the project.]] Another question: Why did you not want to make the changes proposed today, and you only want to do so now in opposition, when you saw the protests of Poles during the previous parliamentary term? Next: However, from the passage of time you did not draw, fellow Members from the PSL, the relevant conclusions and continue to err, without meeting Poles. You want cosmetic changes, not concrete changes, expected by society, aimed at removing harmful writing [[♪ The bell ♪]] About raising the retirement age...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u612	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u613	...until 67 years old, voted in the previous term of office. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u614	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Andzelika Możjanovska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u615	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The question is especially for the Minister. Minister, I know that raising the retirement age was a very difficult decision. It had huge consequences, but it was an agreement that was developed with a great compromise, with a great commitment of the Polish People's Party. Please confirm: Have partial pensions been worked out during this period? Has farmers been guaranteed the right to early retirement? Was it the right to pensions after 67 years of age: for women - 2040 and for men - 2020? Has a protection programme 55+ been applied? Were there special solutions for women, e.g. pension contributions paid for parental leave for self-employed, students or 300,000. The women who were subject to the CRU? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u616	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u617	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Commission! I wanted to ask the applicant's representative a question. There is a table in the project documentation that shows the costs to be borne by the state budget due to the reduction in the retirement age. They look pretty optimistic in this table, but down there it's written in small letters that you have to multiply the above estimates times four. Then this amount is growing a little bit, much more than just a little bit. Turns out, for example. In 2017, it would already be 10 billion more for these pensions. I wanted to ask: Did you estimate on this project what part of women who had retired before would have had this pension lower than the lowest pension required by the law and what the state budget would therefore have to pay for this pension in order to make up for it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] to this lowest level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u618	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Mosiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u619	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were a lot of sympathy here from the applicants, so I will quote a passage from the statement: We have no doubt about the Platform and the PSL. Citizens and citizens don't care. They're doing what they think is right. They don't respect the decision of the President of the Republic of Poland. They respected their party buddy's decision. Who said that? Peter Duda. On 25 October, during the demonstration at the Sejm, when you rejected the request for a citizens' referendum. I would add that you have mixed 6 million signatures of citizens who have signed various types of citizens' initiatives. I will calm the concerns of Mrs. Angelica Możjanovska. What will the trade unionists say? They have already said, they have expressed a positive opinion on the government's position regarding the draft pension law. That's one thing. Secondly, the question to the applicant. Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, what has changed in your mentality that you suddenly changed the front by 180 degrees? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u620	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u621	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. First of all, I would like to point out that there is no official position of the Council of Ministers regarding the citizens' draft law on the revision of the Social Insurance Fund pension law that has been discussed today, but it can be said that we are dealing with a new situation that you mentioned in the discussion today. This new situation is that since November 2015 in the Sejm there has been a presidential bill amending the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, which would reduce the statutory retirement age or restore it to the state before 1 January 2013, i.e. to 60 years for women and 65 years for men. Secondly, since Tuesday we also have a positive position of the Council of Ministers vis-à-vis the presidential draft law reducing the retirement age. One can say this: what connects both positions, the position of the Council of Ministers and the position of applicants is that we have a need to make the process of retirement more flexible. Namely, the solutions that were introduced in May 2012, increasing the retirement age - I think we will agree - are too strict, too rigid solutions. There is a need to make the retirement process more flexible. On the other hand, when it comes to instruments, how to achieve this goal, it can be said that we differ in this. The Presidential draft law reducing retirement age assumes a reduction in the statutory retirement age without linking it to the condition of internship. Today's bill assumes that this flexibility would consist in using only the basis of the traineeship, and this internship understood as a contribution period. This issue was discussed when the PSL Parliamentary Club submitted a twin bill amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law. Then, too, this argument from my mouth fell or was presented. Namely, the fundamental question arises as to whether the introduction of such a solution, which gives the right to a pension only upon fulfilment of the conditions relating to a traineeship, is in accordance with Article. 67 of the Constitution, which, as it was said today, was invoked during the discussion, says that citizens have the right to social security, but in the event of achievement or after reaching a certain retirement age. I would like to say that, against the background of these differences in the approach to making the transition more flexible, one can also see, as far as correlation is concerned, a lack of correlation, i.e. a lack of correlation between these solutions. Namely, the citizens' project, which is being discussed today, assumes the introduction of an internship pension, a pension dependent on the grounds of service, but assuming that the retirement age introduced in 2012 increased to 67 years old will be maintained. It can be said that, in the event of the implementation or adoption of a presidential bill reducing the retirement age, there will be no correlation between the two solutions. This lack of correlation will consist primarily in the fact that reducing the retirement age of women to 60 years of age will result in only a few ladies having a chance to benefit from this solution. The question therefore arises as to whether it is appropriate to lay a plea for unequal treatment on grounds of sex and - it can be said - discrimination against women. Shouldn't it be appropriate, given the solutions contained in the presidential draft law reducing retirement age, to propose e.g. diversification of the pension period for women and men? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Yes, sir. We're in.]] Several questions raised during the discussion at my address. A question has been raised several times about farmers and increasing the retirement age for farmers. So I would like to say this: if we look at the facts, these facts are such that, by virtue of the Act of 11 May 2012, adopted that, so to speak, the Platform-PSL coalition forces, it was decided that pension rights or special pension rights, which would enable farmers to retire at the age of 55 for women and 60 for men, while maintaining at least 30 years of insurance period, would be maintained, but only until the end of 2017. It can be said that the decision that this retirement age of farmers, as you say, will be raised to 60 years in the case of women and 65 years in the case of men, has been taken by the states, by the forces of the coalition state. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But you've been shortening this since October.]] The presidential project, if we reach the position of the Council of Ministers of 19 July 2016, assumes the preservation of this solution, assumes behaviour, you can say, the possibility of retirement at the age of 55 for women and 60 for men by the end of 2017. So if you're complaining that farmers have been deprived of early retirement, then you should resent each other, not the government or the president who... [[But the government can extend it in the project.]] ...he did not propose such solutions in the project. [[Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But is the government, Minister, for not having these privileges?]] In general, as regards the position of the government - this has a formal expression in the position of Tuesday, 19 July - the government is in favour of the so-called. the basic retirement age has been reduced to a uniform level of 60 years for women and 65 years for men for all insured persons. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: So we are increasing.]] [[So we raise it for the farmers.]] So, in short, with behaviour, you can say this solution that you introduced for farmers by the end of 2017 as a transitional solution. There was a question about partial pensions. I agree with the fact that partial pensions were introduced under the law or when a law was passed increasing the retirement age. To be honest, from the very beginning, I have been critical of this solution and this solution still deserves such a critical assessment. First of all, this solution, when presented, was intended to be a cover function, i.e. was intended to apply to those who, before reaching this increased retirement age, but after reaching a certain lower age threshold: 62 years old - women, 65 years old - men, already had a longer life insurance period of 35 years for women and 40 years for men. It can be said that the critical assessment of this solution was that partial pensions were supposed to be very low and that this was supposed to be used by people in difficulty in the labour market who were losing their jobs before the retirement age. It can be said that partial pensions were supposed to amount to half of the final pension that would have been granted once this basic retirement age had been reached. This assumption turned out to be completely wrong. Namely, it turned out that partial pensions are an attractive service for people who achieved high incomes, high salaries - this is evidenced by the average amount of currently paid partial pensions, which amounts to about 1800 PLN - for persons who legitimized themselves or legitimized themselves for a relatively long period of insurance. These people just, not wanting to wait until retirement age... [[Good.]] ...have decided to take advantage of the possibility of collecting part-time pensions, but with the possibility of simultaneously combining this benefit with work. [[It's a law.]] So it can be said that the recipient to whom these benefits were to be addressed was simply unheard of. I would like to conclude that these solutions have been - we talked about this in November, I remember the discussion - assessed by the Constitutional Court, which considered that the differentiation of the conditions for the acquisition of the right to a partial pension, and in the area of the age of partial pension entitlement, and in the area of traineeship, where a solution is introduced which aims to harmonise the basic retirement age, is simply incompatible with the Constitution, infringes the principle of equal treatment. So for partial pensions, You can really make a lot of accusations. And maybe one more comment on the draft law on the amendment of the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, which we are discussing. Namely, using the premise of 40 years of contribution as a condition for acquiring the right to a pension according to my opinion is, one can say, a solution which causes such an internship pension to be addressed to a narrow, limited circle of people who have already reached a relatively long period of internship today and already fulfil this condition of achieving at least 40 years of contribution. On the other hand, it is difficult to treat this solution in terms of an attractive solution for the next generation of insured people - insured people working in completely different realities in the labour market, in the realities about which Mrs Tomaszewska, among others, is responsible. Today she mentioned, in reality, in which work was not always registered work, not always the performance of work was accompanied by the payment of social security contributions, in reality in which we were dealing with underemployment of social security contributions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u622	Thank you, Minister. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u623	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you, first of all, for the fact that this project goes to committee because no one has filed a motion for rejection at first reading. Thank you to all the clubs. [[Surprise.]] [[That's who we are.]] You can see that some time has passed, a few months, and reflection and in the PiS, and in the Platform, and in the Modern. [[But there won't be a coalition.]] Reflection has taken place. [[That's a good change.]] A very important statement by the Minister: the PiS government wants to raise the retirement age for farmers. And there's no translation, Minister, really, it's on the ship. I know you have such a duty, you're trying to explain that this is all we wanted, and that's all you guys wanted. The PiS government will raise the retirement age for farmers. Really, the village that voted for you today may feel satisfied that you appreciate it so much. [[And you are 12 years old to women, in 2017.]] The retirement age for farmers today is as follows, sir. Today, the retirement age for women is 55 years old, for men 60 years old, with 30 contributions years. [[You don't know that.]] You're gonna take it out, you're gonna take it out. There is a complex law that can be adopted to extend this solution for another 5 years. Will you vote for this bill? The retirement age for farmers will be raised by the PiS government, as the Minister said today - that is their decision, that is the decision made by the Council of Ministers. This is the answer to a lot of questions that are being asked today. This is the expression of gratitude for the votes of the Polish village. Once again, the retirement age by decision of the government of 19 July will be raised. It will not be possible to benefit from early retirement by insured persons in KRUS - 55 years for women, 60 years for men at 30 years' work. And you can't miss it anymore, because that's what your minister said, no one else, just your minister, and on your lady's side, the Prime Minister is written like a bull. [[5 PLN for the pensioner and 500 for the mother and children.]] Mr Sosnowski says very well, but in a moment, about 5 PLN for pensioners. As regards the questions, Mr Rometki of the Kukiz club15: What will be the value of the pension? She will certainly be higher if we consider an internship because there may be a situation when someone reaches the age of 65, even 66 years, and the internship will be 25 years old, 25 years old. He's the one who's gonna have a much lower pension than someone who's gonna be 40 or a woman, 35 years old. This is a more appropriate system which shows the involvement in the labour market, the payment of contributions and the possibility of retirement - a pension dependent on contributions in this new system, introduced by the predecessor of the PiS, or AWS. Nobody else put in a defined premium system, just AWS, you did it. You accuse us, you keep screaming, eight years, eight years... [[I wasn't in AWS, sir.]] Very many - responding to the fact that one of the Members was not in AWS - people from PiS were in AWS. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Our first term of office.]] You're yelling at me on my way out to the podium: ZSL, ZSL, and I was born in 1981. And then it's okay, right? 'Cause you guys follow that rule: as we yell, we're right, but we're not allowed to say anything anymore. PiS is the heir to AWS. [[Applause]] PSL is also a continuation of what was happening, how it was possible to function in ZSL. Yes, the ZSL merged with PSL Mikołajczykowski, the PSL was created. [[He didn't connect, Prime Minister. He was absorbed.]] He's connected, it was a union congress. I also recommend the history of a colleague from Kukiz.15. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But you were born late, Mr, what do you know about this?]] [[Voice from the room: History quite different.]] So was I in this ZSL, or was I not, Member, when I was born late? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Because once you yell that I was, and the second time you say that I was born late. Then make up your mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u624	Excuse me, Minister, sir. I understand that these intertwined historical ones are extremely interesting, but let's move on to the answers to questions. I would also like to ask my colleagues in law and justice and other clubs to allow him to answer the questions he has asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u625	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u626	A few more points ahead of us. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u627	Thank you very much, but emotions are big. I would like to take this opportunity to express my regret on behalf of more than 115 thousand. citizens who signed up for this project that this project is being considered at night. It's a shame, because they probably want to be more involved in this debate, maybe sitting in a gallery, but they're hard to hold. There's one person who's been collecting signatures and persevering because the rest of them have probably gone home by now. If you want answers to any more questions, I'd be happy to give them, just give them a chance. Mrs Tomaszewska asked about the contracts of the order, about the composition of the contracts of the order. Yes, at a time of crisis, flexibility in the labour market became a value at a certain point, because the job was better in a situation of difficult unemployment growth. When I came to the ministry, it was 14%. When I left it was one-digit, it was less than 10%. , the largest was the number of people working. Changes in the submission of orders can be mentioned as follows: the liquidation of contracts of orders, from 1 January of this year the principle is that from the amount of the minimum remuneration is paid out on each order pension contributions. I also changed contracts from contracts to employment contracts in the Ministry itself so as to end the contracts that didn't affect the pension system well and to pay off the contributions. That's what we've done. I haven't seen any further steps in the last nine months. I recommend this, I understand that you are preparing for this and we will be able to work on further projects in a moment. Mrs Zwierzan asked about valorisation. This is the right question this week, because 2 days ago we had a proposal: 5 PLN for a pensioner, 500 PLN for a mother with a child and 5 000 PLN. Evil for the PiS dignitary. [[Applause]] This is a very valid question in this context, which will be valorisation. We have not yet heard an answer as to whether the government is planning to change its way of valorisation, whether it will return to a good, already proven system of mixed valorisation, percentage-quota, which secures the lowest amount, and at some point it will turn to a percentage, which is certainly in line with the constitution, and it can be returned to that. It will cost several billions, but, as Mrs Rusecka said, you will certainly be able to do it. You can see that you are able to raise the age for farmers, it certainly is, you can see that this direction is accepted. As regards the collapse of social dialogue, some of you were Members of the previous term and voted in favour of the Social Dialogue Council Act, which was adopted unanimously at the Sejm meeting within about 12 hours. There was an automatic transition to second reading with the agreement of all trade unions, with the agreement of all employers' organisations and the entire High House. The bill was signed very quickly by the president. The dialogue with strengthening the position of the social side, employers and trade unionists has been renewed. Therefore, for the first time in history the head of the Social Dialogue Council, the heir of the Tripartite Commission, is the head of the trade union Mr Piotr Duda. For the first time in history. Before that, during our governments for a long time and during your governments for these 2 years as the PiS, and earlier as the AWS, which ruled together with Balcerowicz, was the Tripartite Commission, there was a formula for dialogue, and now there is the Council of Social Dialogue, better, more dedicating the involvement of social partners. As for the questions that were raised concerning the protests that we did not respond to the protests, I did not see a change in your conduct after thousands of protests not only in Warsaw, but also in Poland in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal. I haven't seen this change, and you say you're so sensitive to protests. Make up your mind and take one track. And that's what you stick to, not the rules that if the protests are against you, you don't have to react, but when there were protests in the previous term, you had to react to them. This is incomprehensible. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak mentioned the decisions taken by AWS. Yeah, pathology started with promises of puppies, retirement under palm trees and all the best, OFE, etc. That's the problem, as I see it, you guys want to do the same thing. [[I'm very sorry, but it was Miller's government that destroyed the oversight of the OFE.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u628	Member, please do not argue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u629	Respecting Mrs Tomaszewska very much, I will answer: yes, the work was started even earlier, but the decision was made for the government of AWS, the Union of Freedom, with Leszek Balcerowicz, who introduced these changes. You're gonna say no to him today, but then you were in a coalition with him as AWS. You're walking away from all the changes made by AWS at all. There's going to be a school thing in a minute. PSL didn't introduce 6-year-old middle school, really. And you are saying and asking why PSL is taking the citizens' initiative today, submitting its project to modify the changes introduced in that term in the pension system. Because he has the right to do so, just as you have the right to withdraw from various wrong decisions. You put together a $5,000 project. Evil for dignitaries and after two days you withdrew. Sometimes you can back out and change your mind. [[You can change your mind.]] Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski asked about the farmers' affairs. It is worth repeating once again, Minister Zielenecki repeated this today, that it is the government's will that the retirement age for farmers should be raised, because there will be no right to take advantage of the possibility of early retirement - 55 years for women, 60 years for men - with 30 years of internship. [[It's less than you guys are.]] The next questions were about the civil project, that's what I said. Mrs Możjanowska asked about partial pensions. It was a possible solution at the time. As a 30-person club, we negotiated partial pensions, contributions for women engaged in business activities, for farmers on parental leave. This is also an expense of about PLN 1400 million per year invested in family policy, so that women have better conditions or at least equal to men in terms of their contributions, so that they are not wronged by being on parental leave. And that was then introduced. However, you can see that people benefit from partial pensions, if they worked long and paid contributions, that's good. I think we need to be happy, Minister, because at least we have some contributions. It's still in this system, and there's someone to walk it out. Someone was working, and that's what it was. Mr Suchoń asked about the costs of these changes. They are much more rational than in other projects presented at this moment in the Seym. I am also pleased with those statements made by Mr Mosiński, who says that the Solidarity Group submitted a slightly different project and signed something else. Yes, but she was very clear about 35 years of internship for women and 40 years for men. We're ready to change this project so it's 35 years for women and 40 years for men. [[Applause]] [[Well done.]] And that is, I think, such a walk, such an opportunity to fulfill the promise of President Duda. We can make it happen together, but you need to get rid of one, gentlemen from the PiS - that if there is no PiS stamp nailed to the bill, it cannot be accepted. That's why we've already hidden and erased this PSL stamp. There's a civic project, maybe it'll be easier for you. You really have a chance to do this: 35 years of internship for women, 40 years for men. It's a little surprising for some of you to say that 40 years is unattainable. I do not believe that "Solidarity" offers 40 years for men if this is not possible. I have great respect for President Duda. I don't think he'd offer anything that would be unattainable, and you doubt it. Do not doubt President Peter Duda, please. Another question by Mr Krzysztof Paszik about professional activity. With regard to the payment of contributions, professional activity in this new system has an undoubted effect on the amount of the pension. She's dependent on her. The amount of the benefit depends on the amount of contributions collected divided by the further life expectancy. I think that's most of the questions that have been asked. [[And my question?]] Mr Mieczysław Miazga. Why did you not turn away from these changes when you saw the protests of Poles and Poles? [[It wasn't before.]] Why didn't you change when you saw the protests of Poles and Poles about the Constitutional Tribunal? I'm answering. Maybe you don't always have to answer a question with a question, but sometimes you have to. This project concerns the system ZUS and KRUS, the universal system. It doesn't concern the question you asked about. I know that Minister Błaszczak is handling these matters and that he has presented his project. [[There was another question before. Don't you see the need for esbeks and bubeks...]] This is a 40-year job placement project and the possibility of retirement with this modification, which I declare on behalf of those who are taking this initiative, that if the 35-year-old amendment for women, 40-year-old for men is tabled, we will certainly accept it during parliamentary work with the utmost kindness. Minister Zielenecki also spoke about these values reported during the debate. It is possible to combine these two projects - the President and the Civil Project. It would be so symbolic, too, because the President was making a social contract, so it would be such a complement to the social agreement. Really most of the PiS, the parliamentary majority today has a great chance of combining these two projects. Once again, I ask for urgent work and adoption of this project in September, because I understand that this is the intention of adopting the President's project, which has been in the freezer for several months. I ask you to take the civil project seriously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u630	Thank you, sir. Minister Marcin Zielenecki also asked to speak. Minister, it's a request, of course, but if you could just say so, pretty briefly. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u631	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to exercise my right to rectify. President Kosiniak-Kamish put a statement in my mouth several times, which on my part did not fall, namely that the government or PiS is in favour of raising the retirement age. So let me repeat once again that I have stated that the decision not to retire from retirement by farmers who are 55 years old in terms of women and 60 years in terms of men, after 30 years of experience... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Mr Marshal...]] ...was taken in the adoption of the Act of 11 May 2012, which was passed, with the participation of the President of the Group. It can be said that this solution was maintained until the end of 2017. Such a decision was made then. [[And you can extend it.]] The intention of the government is to maintain this solution, its validity until the end of 2017. Thank you. [[But it can be extended.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u632	Don't yell, sir. Thank you. I understand that in the correction mode. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u633	Thank you very much. Once again: there is, of course, a provision in the Act adopted in 2012 that refers to changes in the retirement age and the maintenance of entitlements for farmers, 55 years for women, 60 years for men with 30 years of employment. If the President's law is introduced in October, you won't be able to do it anyway, because it's until the end of December 2017. That's the first inconsistency. Second thing. As you say, that's when the PSL requested it, and today I'm asking you to extend it by five years. If you are kind to this project, you will accept it. Otherwise, there is nothing wrong with the wording: PiS and the Government of PiS recommend moving away from early retirement at the age of 55 and 60. This is the government's position adopted by this law, the PiS government automatically raises the retirement age for farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Turn the cat around with a tail.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u634	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u635	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I remind you that the Civil Platform and PSL law on extending the retirement age of men and women to 67 years of age has been in force in our country since 2013. The government of the Civic Platform, which introduced the changes, explained it to the demographic situation. We live longer and longer, and children are born less and less - they said then, of course, by not offering anything to young people to change the factual situation. The issue of pensions is very important and, unfortunately, has been neglected over the last few years. Poland is one of the last places in Europe when it comes to the activity of people of pre-retirement age. We need to change this by supporting citizens through various activities involving 50+ workers. However, let us avoid, as we read several times in the explanatory memorandum of the citizens' bill, strong incentives, because this must be a systemic, conscious action, not on the basis of incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u636	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws contained in print No. 680, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws (prints Nos 708 and 744). I ask Mrs Iwona Michalek to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u637	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, I have the honour to present a report on the proceding of a government draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. This project concerns reducing the regulatory burden on public and non-public universities, bureaucratic obligations, in particular reporting and information obligations, regarding the submission of declarations, the application of complex procedures relating to the activities of universities. The project entered the Sejm on 24 May, print number 556. 10 amendments were adopted and two rejected during the work in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. I would like to point out that as many as 433 Members voted in favour of the whole project at that time. The Senate proposed one amendment on 7 July. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth rejected the amendment proposed by the Senate on 20 July. The Commission calls for the Senate amendment to be rejected and the adoption in full of a law which, according to the committee's meeting by Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, the plans of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education are only an introduction to the deeper, necessary and expected changes in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u638	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u639	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Senate's amendment to the Act adopted by our House amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, print No 708. The Senate proposes in the article. 1 in point 3 of the Act, delete paragraph 1. c. This provision repeals paragraph. Article 7 and Article 8 8 of the Act, which means the elimination of the following requirements for universities: point 7 - the university may conduct postgraduate studies in the field of education with which at least one course of university studies is related, point 8 - where the postgraduate programme goes beyond the scope referred to in paragraph 1. 7, the agreement of the Minister responsible for higher education, after consulting the General Council for Science and Higher Education, is required for these studies. High Izbo! The adoption of the Senate amendment would mean maintaining the current situation, i.e. the new regulation restricting the university's post-graduate interdisciplinary studies. The Senate notes that the repeal of points 7 and 8 of Article. 8 endangers the quality of education that market mechanisms may not be sufficient to verify the quality of post-graduate studies. Moreover, post-graduate education is not subject to assessment of the quality of education by the Polish Accreditation Commission. However, the interdisciplinaryity of post-graduate studies is of particular value. These studies are generally conducted by universities, not just by their departments, which increases the chance for this interdisciplinaryness. The need for the Minister's approval to conduct post-graduate studies, as far as the scope of education indicates, means maintaining the level of bureaucracy that is too much at our universities and which is to be reduced by this revision of the Law on Higher Education. I would also like to draw attention to the possibility of increasing the cost of handling these bureaucratic ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] loads. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of rejecting the Senate's amendment to the Law amending the Law on Higher Education. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u640	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Osos.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u641	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the Senate report on the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. The Senate adopted one amendment to the bill, which repeals the amendment on post-graduate studies introduced during work in the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Science and Youth. In order to justify the amendment, the Senate pointed out that the resignation from the rules according to which a university may carry out postgraduate studies in the field of education, with which at least one course of university education is related, and where the post-graduate programme goes beyond that scope, the Minister's approval is required to carry them out, could lead to a situation where the quality of post-graduate education would not be sufficiently controlled. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be borne in mind that postgraduate studies are studies which mainly respond to market demand and generally involve more than one discipline. The Senate amendment, as also pointed out by academics, will simply make it more difficult to establish interdisciplinary studies. In addition, quality control of postgraduate education should be verified by the market and students. Let us remember that these studies are paid for, taken up by mature, responsible people and let them and the market verify the quality of education in these studies. [[Applause]] Without a good offer presented by the university, without ensuring an adequate level of education in these studies, no one will simply undertake to learn from them. Therefore, in order to give full opportunity to interdisciplinary education, bearing in mind that the repeal of the current provisions on post-graduate studies will not adversely affect the quality of education, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote against the Senate amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u642	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u643	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, Kukiz15 is against the Senate's amendment on maintaining the conditions in which the university can conduct post-graduate studies only when he is conducting a particular course of studies in the department. This, of course, limits competition. It is the same with the Minister's consent. Praise God, we have Minister Gowin, who deregulates something and nevertheless allows this market to grow a little bit. Let's not limit the university. I'm gonna talk very briefly, and in the end, I'm gonna talk about socialists anyway. Let's not limit universities, let them collect the most important values in the market, and that is just the value of the client. A customer, a grown man, ladies and gentlemen, can decide what to study postgraduately. I have this American example again. If not for God's sake under the Polish legal order, he was ever asleep. Steve Jobs, he would have laughed really well, because he studied post-graduate without finishing his studies, his calligraphy. Hence you have beautiful calligraphy letters in MacBooks, which you use, and iPads of the Seym. And here's an argument I don't understand. The problem turns out that the Polish Accreditation Board will not or, sorry, does not examine the quality of these post-graduate studies. And it's a good thing you're not investigating them, ladies and gentlemen, because why would you do that? In fact, I see a lot of strange things at all, I could say conflicts of interest, because in my opinion the Polish Accreditation Commission has such powers that it may actually turn out that e.g. does not allow other universities to develop. Of course, a great respect for the I league of Polish universities and certain departments of science, but the market should be the most important here. In conclusion, the Kukiz movement will, of course, vote against this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u644	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Jaskola. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[He just spoke.]] Mr Józef Brynus? It wasn't. And there isn't, right? [[There isn't.]] I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. [[You should have done it again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u645	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Amendment proposed by the Senate, i.e. deletion of point. c in Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 1 in point 3 of the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws means that universities will only be able to conduct postgraduate studies in their area of education. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, this amendment, of course, to some extent strikes the autonomy of universities, although on the other hand we understand some motivations of the Senate, which wanted more control over whether the scope of postgraduate studies is compatible, for example. with the training of specialists in a particular field who work at a given university. But note two things. Firstly, that postgraduate studies are directed to adults, mostly graduates of some kind of studies, people who can be fully aware of both what the university proposes, what direction it leads, and who will be educated in these postgraduate studies. Therefore, any attempts to limit this are hitting autonomy, competition, but above all preventing the creation of post-graduate studies, for example. They would use the practical skills of invited lecturers, and in fact would also hinder the creation of post-graduate interdisciplinary studies. We have a time when such interdisciplinary studies are really the future. Very often you have to combine knowledge, you have to combine skills with many fields. At this point, it is limited to postgraduate studies only in line with the courses for which the university has e.g. the right of diplomacy, seems to act contrary to this rational move towards interdisciplinaryism. Therefore, of course, Modern is against this solution. We believe that it is important that both postgraduate studies can be created using practitioners and interdisciplinary studies. It is also very important to maintain the autonomy of universities We already have more and more competition on the market both among private and public schools, especially because of the low-level, and in fact it is the market that will decide which postgraduate studies will enjoy and which will not be successful. That's why the Modern Club will vote against the Senate amendment. At the same time, I must admit that this is one of those laws that is going in the right direction, and that these deregulation activities of the Ministry are going in the direction in which we should go in many matters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u646	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u647	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Senate's Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, seym prints No. 708 and 744. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will object to the amendment tabled. We do not share the arguments put forward by the Senate that the repeal of the provisions providing that the university can only conduct postgraduate studies in the field of education with which at least one course of university education is related, and that the quality of education in such studies should be affected by the repeal of the provisions providing that the university may carry out postgraduate studies only in the field of education, although it will re-burerocratise the organisation of studies and increase the educational offer, but also negatively affect the quality of education in such studies. In our opinion, this is wrong logic. The Senate also considered that the solutions so far provided minimum quality for post-graduate studies. It is worth noting that postgraduate education is not subject to assessment of the quality of education and so-called. accreditation by the Polish Accreditation Board. You can have doubts here, too. According to the Senate, market mechanisms that operate in the normal services market may not be sufficient to verify the quality of the university's postgraduate studies offer. It is difficult for us to accept, therefore, as I said at the outset, we will vote against the Senate amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u648	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u649	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle towards the government's draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. The contested bill is an important project, it endures many bureaucratic absurdities in the functioning of universities. The Senate submitted its amendment to the bill proposed by the Sejm. In accordance with it, universities would only have the right to organise post-graduate studies in the field of education, with which at least one of the university's courses of study are linked. This would increase the scope of the university's self-government. However, the argument against the Senate's position is that the current system allows better verification of the quality of post-graduate education. The independence of higher education institutions to decide on the opening of post-graduate studies in its chosen scope could make it impossible for students to acquire an adequate level of knowledge and skills by leaving students. In the face of such controversy, we will abstain from voting on the Senate amendment. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Well, you can't do it any other way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u650	Thank you very much. Did... There isn't. Then I'll close the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Constitutional Tribunal Act (prints No 755 and 761). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u651	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate's resolution on the Constitutional Tribunal Act, print No 755. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 21 July 2016, the Sejm referred the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights to be heard. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this resolution at today's meeting, requests that the High Sejm adopt 26 amendments to the Senate and only rejects the technical amendment set out in paragraph 25. Thank you very much. [[Standing ovations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u652	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u653	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate's resolution on the Constitutional Tribunal Act. The Constitutional Tribunal Act adopted by the Sejm on 7 July resolves some of the important problems concerning the functioning of the Tribunal. We believe that the amendments tabled by the Senate and the committee's positive opinions are compromises. The Senate has made several substantive changes to the Act and several legislative amendments. The substantive amendments meet the expectations of the opposition and legal environments, including the Constitutional Tribunal. It is worth noting that we limit the principle of dealing with cases according to the order of influence. Where the rights and freedoms of the individual are concerned, as well as public order and security, the President of the Tribunal will be able to change the order in which cases are dealt with. We allow the Ombudsman to all proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. We waive the President's involvement in disciplinary proceedings against the judges of the tribunal. We clarify the provision on the jurisdiction of the Court to examine normative acts, as well as the regulation on the presentation by the General Assembly of candidates for President of the Tribunal to the President. We welcome the fact that the Act in its current form has received support in the Senate that goes beyond our political environment. With reference to earlier speeches in the High House, I will repeat that in matters that arouse a lot of political emotions and wake them up for a long time, a destructive approach is a principle: everything or nothing. Since the amendments tabled are another step towards limiting the area of the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club supports the adoption of 26 of the 27 amendments adopted by the Senate. Like the Committee on Justice, we are only against the technical amendment of paragraph 25. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u654	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u655	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Another shame, another disgrace, another scandal in the exercise of the Law and Justice. At an empty hall, at night we are discussing the system bill, which has one purpose - once again to prove that for your formation the constitutional system, the principle of three divisions of power and, above all, that it is the nation that decides who controls the constitution in Poland, it is nothing. For your environment, the only goal was to block the Constitutional Tribunal from the beginning. You failed to achieve this goal in 2007 because you already created a law to eliminate the possibility of a parliamentary majority being controlled by the Constitutional Tribunal. Since December 3rd Ub. r. you are solely responsible for what is happening in Poland with the Constitutional Tribunal. Since December 3rd Ub. President Andrzej Duda is co-responsible for violating the Constitution in Poland. Since 9 March this year, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, President of the Council of Ministers, joined the people breaking the Constitution. Today's bill doesn't fix anything in the Court because there's no legal act to fix what you've done. The Court doesn't need to be repaired. The only repairs in Poland need your mentality, your understanding of democracy, and really misunderstanding that the principle of three divisions of power is to limit the dictatorial urges of formations such as yours, the drives where citizens are brought exclusively to the role of voting machines during the election act, and then, in a word, "suwieren" you wipe your mouths on every given situation, and in fact you have no idea what these words mean. [[Applause]] Shame, hypocrisy, shame - these will be the words that describe these eight months of your rule. The Constitutional Tribunal has become your number one enemy because you don't tolerate anyone who might have a different opinion from you. The Poles will not forget this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u656	Please take the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Voice from the room: 8 years...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u657	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Again at night, again in a hurry and again unconstitutional. The war for the Constitutional Tribunal has been going on for months and almost everything has actually been said about it. Let's not pretend there's a legal dispute going on here. This is really your war - your war is about taking absolute control of the whole of Poland and freely deciding the life of each of the Poles, and it is necessary to speak out. Your example is not European democracies, your example is Putin's Russia and Erdogan's Turkey. [[Voice from the hall: Poles will judge us.]] Tomorrow we'll wake up in a country that doesn't have a constitution. In a country that undermines civil liberties and rights. In a country where no institution is upholding the rights and freedoms which are enshrined in the Constitution. From tomorrow, laws such as the Anti-Terrorism Act, the Police Act, the Land or any other law that wishes to be made known to Mr Kaczyński will be in force and, in fact, no one will be able to challenge these laws effectively. The State Constitutional Court Act is another consistent step towards building an anti-democratic State of the PiS. I am afraid of this and it should be feared by every Pole because you have undertaken an illegal attempt at this moment to change the Polish system. A test that you have no right to or a mandate for. The Poles did not trust you enough to win the majority that entitles you to change the constitution - but you do it through actual actions. [[Game in the O.R.]] You now want to transform our common Poland - our common Poland - into your Poland, where the citizen will feel safe for so long and will not have to fear as long as he will abide by the rules - your rules, but not the rules of law. The law and justice are today the words that you make disgusting people, the words that you deprive them of any meaning. You're going the easy way to make democracy a facade and the election just a farce. Unfortunately, for what you are doing, the bill will be paid by Poles, will pay Poland, will pay our children, our future generations, because we will no longer be in the center of the Union, we will be on the margins of the Union, outside its centre, in Europe the second or perhaps even the third speed. And the worst part is that many people built this democratic, free Poland in Europe, and you're just destroying it. But I am convinced that your governments will end. Poles... [[Watch out, you're gonna cry.]] ...sometimes they show their wisdom and show it next time. Your reign will be over. [[We'll see about that.]] And all you're gonna deserve is... [[We'll see. Don't cry.]] ...exemplary judgment and a memory wipe. This bill is very bad and paralyzes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Madame, she seems to be crying behind Jaruzelski.]] [[Voice from the room: Good night.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u658	Thank you very much, Member. But I feel obliged, after all the words that you have said, to reassure you. Do not be afraid of the heart of the Member, really, you can sleep peacefully. As Vice-Marshal of the Seym... [[What are those comments?]] ...I'll be guarding your civil and parliamentary rights. You're safe. That is not enough, I assure you, Mrs... [[I'd better not.]] But please, please, ladies and gentlemen, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It's not... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Time for a serious discussion about Poland and the future. You have no right. You have no right to do this. You abuse your rights...]] Member, if you don't mind. Easy, easy. Ladies and gentlemen, please leave the stand. Please leave the podium. [[Voice from the hall: These words offend my friend. This can't be right.]] Get out of the podium! [[Voice from the Chamber: You are not from commenting on the speeches of Members.]] Please leave the speaker, sir. I'm calling you into order. [[How are you acting?]] [[Get the hell out of here!]] [[Pull over? Who are you talking to? And you're the marshal?]] Mr Meysztowicz, I also call you to order. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would listen to these... [[Don't get all emotional.]] ...the words I address to Mrs Pihowicz, so you will hear clearly that I am trying, no less, no more, only to pour oil on those needlessly agitated hot heads. I assure you that my role in this Chamber is, no less, nothing more, just to ensure order in this Chamber. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: corrected.]] In corrigendum mode, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u659	Mr. Marshal, the fact that you're going to ridicule right now... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...that you fight so low, it just shows that what we're talking about today is true. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: This is not a correction.]] The fact that you're allowing yourselves to take advantage of and destroy certain standards of democracy that we've been dealing with so far, and the fact that you're using as small tools as mockery, the attempt to ridicule me, the attempt to discredit me as an MP... [[What tools?]] ...it just shows that you have no substantive arguments to say: this bill is good, this bill leads to the fact that the tribunal will act more efficiently, because it will not work more efficiently. You know what you've done is powder reality. [[Why is she saying that again?]] That bill you proposed was very bad. You've made some changes, but this bill is still... [[You're making your point, aren't you?]] ...evil and still leads to paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is because there are many mechanisms that slow down the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[You're making your point, aren't you?]] Curious solutions that lead to judges being able to postpone their six-month sentence. This has nothing to do with... [[Five seconds...]] ...with the constitutionally guaranteed right to obtain... [[...4, 3, 2, 1, 0.]] [[Take the opportunity to shut up.]] ...a judgment without undue delay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[What you're doing is just rude. Didn't Mommy raise you? Behave yourself.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Teach your children.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u660	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u661	It's just that it's embarrassing and there's no substantive argument.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u662	Thank you, Commissioner, for this thorough correction. Thank you very much, Madam President. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u663	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club our position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate Resolution on the Court Act [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Constitutional in print No 755. We are finishing today and, in fact, tomorrow, we will end the legislative process on the Constitutional Court Act, which, in our recognition, was a great opportunity for the majority of the Parliament to resolve the dispute, the crisis related to the Constitutional Tribunal. It was open to cooperation with you, so that together, as the Venice Commission suggested, in the spirit of responsibility for Poland, it would join the legislative process. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: When will the Venice Commission end up in Turkey?]] The Polish People's Party was ready, the Kukiz club15 was ready to take part in this consensus. Other opposition environments were also ready. And I have the irrefutable impression that the state as a majority of the parliament did not take advantage of this opportunity. I don't know if you didn't want it to be some kind of game and in the middle of it... [[We didn't have to.]] ...you've come to the conclusion that it's better for you to leave this boiling pot called the Constitutional Tribunal, because it's convenient for a political game. It's not for me to judge today, but I'm saying you've wasted a great opportunity. This bill, which will be voted on in the House tomorrow, is missing two of the most important issues that make nothing change. Those two things are, first of all... [[The voice from the room: PSL melts, you can see that.]] [[2% is yours, 2% is yours.]] ...Mr. Marshal, Mr. Chairman, it's a personal matter. The six judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will continue to be questioned and this will go back like a boomerang in challenging their title to the Constitutional Court. The second thing that is not settled in any way by the law that you will most likely adopt tomorrow is the matter of publishing all the decisions that have been given by the Constitutional Tribunal. That's gonna be two problems that you can't avoid when a boomerang comes back. I'm sorry and I'm sorry... We in the Polish People's Party are sorry that there will still be questions, there will still be doubts about what an important body of democracy, which is the Polish constitutional court, but, unfortunately, you have wasted this opportunity which was in the course of this legislative process. Thank you very much. [[What about Elewarr?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u664	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Questions!]] We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Formal conclusion!]] About what? [[On the roll-call vote pursuant to Article. 184 Rules of Procedure.]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] Okay, sir, but I'm looking at the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[Censor?]] ...and it's not... [[184.]] [[It's like a commune.]] [[We answer: 184.]] [[Paragraph 1 is replaced by the ……]] [[Bravo.]] Mr, Art. Paragraph 184. Point 9... [[Wrong color of the rules. It's blue.]] Changes in the way the vote is conducted... You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the room: Voting?]] Formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u665	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, on behalf of the Members of the Civic Platform, I wanted to make a motion for a roll-call vote on this matter. [[They're all names, aren't they?]] [[You've all got names.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u666	You have one minute on a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u667	You have no idea what a roll call is. [[Learn the rules.]] I'm sending you to comment on the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. It's a sign of your knowledge. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[It's not an electronic vote, it's not an electronic vote, it's not the same thing.]] Marshal, Mr Terlecki has just addressed one of the Members of the opposition with the word "slide." These are your standards, these are the standards of law and justice against the opposition. This is the democratic package: bell, slide. But the same words fell in the direction of President Rzepliński. This is the procession style where opposition Members are forced to work at night on one of the most important laws of the system. [[Voice from the room: We're all working.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You can go home.]] Instead of civil society, you want to build this law as a state society. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Society to you today about your raises...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u668	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u669	...give the signal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u670	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u671	In the case of the Constitutional Tribunal there will be no agreement to this law. [[Applause]] [[Christopher, what time did you vote on the State Forests?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u672	Thank you, sir. I regret to inform the High House that the justification for this formal proposal was used only to try to cause another unnecessary disturbance. [[According to you, Marshal.]] Consequently, as regards the proposal, the roll-call vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be managed by the Marshal. [[Then order it.]] The voting block is tomorrow. [[There are 30 Members on the proposal...]] Yes, voting block, ladies and gentlemen, it's tomorrow morning. In view of the above, as I said, we are going to consider... [[Mr. Marshal, I've made a formal request.]] I no longer allow any formal applications. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[What do you mean, no?]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[There were no questions.]] [[Rules!]] [[Voice from the room: Rules!]] [[I have a formal motion.]] We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (prints Nos 757 and 759). Please leave the speaker, sir. [[You just promised to follow the rules!]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]] [[Voice from the room: Colorful dreams!]] [[Formal conclusion.]] [[You can't say no.]] I ask Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk to submit a report to the committee. [[Insolent.]] [[Dictatorship.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u673	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the adoption of the Senate Act amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, print No 757. The Senate Committee discussed a project that was discussed in the Sejm at committee meetings. Eight amendments were proposed. As regards points 1 and 3, there is a proposal for amendments, but at the time of the vote we will be able to vote on amendments 3 and 4. - Eight. Following the review of the Law on the amendment of the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund on 21 July 2016, as I said earlier, the Senate decided to adopt eight amendments. [[Part of the Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform leaves the room]] [[Desertion.]] In adopting Amendment 1, the Senate took the view that it is necessary to complement the scope of the first priority contained in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund for the activities referred to in Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) a Regulation No 508/2014 of the European Parliament and of the European Council, i.e. investment in equipment or investments on board vessels aimed at reducing pollutant or greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the energy efficiency of fishing vessels and investments eligible for fishing gear. [[I hear the PiS Members don't read the card.]] The amendment proposed by the Senate makes it possible to finance such investments from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. Amendment 2 concerning the new wording of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 the amended law specifies that the tasks of the managing authority covered by the operational programme which the intermediate bodies carry out also include the tasks of implementing technical assistance. Amendments 4, 7 and 8 introduce a terminology change in replacing the expression "aid' in excess of "aid'. The Senate considered such a change to be indicated by virtue of the wording of the Article. 22 of the amended law and Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 as amended by the Act currently adopted. The other amendments marked "No 3" and "No 8" and partly "No 8" introduce the necessary editorial changes, remove unnecessary expressions and clarify the terminology of the law. The Commission requests the adoption of the Senate amendments, which was adopted unanimously. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u674	Thank you very much, Member. You will have the opportunity to enjoy it again, because on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice you will be heard by Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] The Sejm agreed that it would hear three minutes' statements in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u675	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have tried this project quite well, for which I wanted to thank the honourable committee, as well as the Senate, who unanimously accepted the amendments as an initiative by Members and Senators, as well as the legislative offices of both Chambers. It seems to me that during individual readings it was discussed in a comprehensive manner. The fishermen are waiting for the funds to be mobilised, so the Law and Justice Club will support the bill and I would very much like to ask other clubs as chairman of this committee to support the print project No 757. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u676	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot's Civic Platform on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u677	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To prevent formal applications from being made, to prevent a person from speaking and to prevent questions from being asked - this is what it looks like... [[Not on the subject.]] ...parliamentality according to law and justice. [[Voice from the hall: Talk about fish.]] But that's what we're gonna have to do. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[The voice from the hall: The fishes!]] [[Hit the table and the scissors will talk. The truth hurts.]] That's not how it's supposed to be, right? [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Mr President, we did not mention this on the committee.]] With regard to these amendments, it should be noted that these were largely legislative amendments. In the last vote, the Civic Platform Club supported the bill. [[Oh! Did you guys support the tribunal?]] These amendments can significantly help to improve the legislative... [[Bravo!]] ...then we still haven't gotten the answers to the questions that we had in the previous session of the Sejm, because you are transferring the technical assistance competences under this programme to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Do you then assume that there will be new jobs for those who support good change, and that the potential of those who have done so far will not be exploited? We still don't have an answer to those questions. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: I answered these questions.]] However, we accepted these amendments during the committee's work, and they were unanimously adopted by the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform at the committee meeting, so we will vote in favour. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u678	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u679	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The principles of this law are undoubtedly essential for the sustainable development of the fishing sector, the industry that has been neglected over the years, resulting in a shrinking number of jobs in the sector. We are pleased that the proposed amendments will lead to the regulation of matters related to the supervision of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as an intermediary for priority six, the creation of a legal basis, the empowerment and technical assistance under priority four, together with the preparation of procedures and the carrying out of controls, so as to allow effective surveillance and support in the fisheries sector. Following discussions in the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the introduction of the relevant amendments, the draft law shall take into account all necessary requirements that will allow the proper functioning of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture in the area of the tasks identified. Like the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, we are positive about the draft law, believing that it is the right solution for the fishing sector. In conclusion, on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I strongly recommend the committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u680	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u681	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Club Parliamentary The modern one fully supports the changes proposed in the project. This law was written during the term of office of the previous government of PO-PSL and from the very beginning everyone, both the team and the parliamentarians, were aware that there was a lot of substantive errors. This law is dated 10 July 2015, please, countries, it is only one year old, it was written by the Department of Fisheries in the Ministry of Agriculture, and the current amendments have already been made in the same department, only that in the newly created Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. In both cases, both the Act and the current amendments were chaired by the same persons transferred in the framework of the reorganisation. It is only interesting, ladies and gentlemen, why these amendments were introduced so late. The question arises as to why neither the previous government nor the present government were in a hurry to make these amendments. The absence of these amendments has led to serious delays in the implementation of the operational programme for the years 2014 and 2020 - and this has been done by up to 9 months, ladies and gentlemen. This is a completely incomprehensible delay. It is known that aid resulting from this scheme is required in the Union Regulation at the end of 2017. Assuming that these changes can be implemented, it will take months to issue implementing regulations and to prepare procedures, and maybe years, knowing the Polish reality. The most affected are fishermen who cannot benefit from the aid scheme, and it is unfortunately very likely that they will not benefit at all, because Poland will not be able to use these funds before the deadline. This is likely to result in the bankruptcy of many fishermen. The Senate amendments, which were presented just now, concern, inter alia, the possibility of investing financed by the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which is intended to contribute to reducing pollutant or greenhouse gas emissions and to increasing the energy efficiency of fishing vessels, which we very much support as Modern. Amendment 2 complements the tasks of the managing authority covered by the operational programme with tasks relating to the implementation of technical assistance. To sum up, the state-of-the-art is in favour of completing the legislative work on this project as soon as possible and implementing it so that the shipowners in the fisheries sector can benefit from the aid they have been given and that Poland does not have to return all the aid to the Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u682	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u683	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on the proposal for a law on promoting the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, and in principle on the amendments of the Senate which this House has tabled to this project. There are eight of these amendments. They are mostly improving in terms of the wording of this law, but one amendment, namely Amendment 1, changes this project a bit in substance, adding to the catalogue of investments that can be implemented with the support of this fund, namely the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, actions, investments, ship upgrades, their engines aimed at mitigating the effects greenhouse effect, emissions, climate protection. This amendment goes in the right direction, it's about the whole catalogue that is, I don't think it's that small, because we write it under the letter n, and the next one under the letter about, that is, there's a whole lot of it. This amendment goes in the right direction, makes it possible to implement such investments with the support of the Fund, so the Polish People's Party will support both this amendment and all others. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u684	Thank you very much. As there is still time for the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch will speak on the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Senate resolution. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u685	Thank you very much, Marshal. The debate on fishing is an excellent opportunity to refer to the farce you are doing in the Seym, because the fish breaks from the head... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and you are spoiling and draining the Polish state from the top. [[Oh, dear.]] Discussions about the tribunal... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Marshal, please respond. [[Voice from the courtroom:...from the tribunal.]] [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Isn't that the bill, Mr Mielewczyk?]] If you're not responding, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u686	Excuse me, sir... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u687	...please stop the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u688	Please, my fellow Members of the Parliamentary Club... [[Time to stop.]] ... The law and justice to enable the Member to complete this extremely substantive statement. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: About!]] About, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u689	Ironic, Mr. Marshal, you've become... [[A domain.]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Get to the point!]] ...in such a lietmotive and domain, as opposed to following the rules that you permanently break. Unfortunately, with these vain-funny jokes, you can't cover up the way you're doing the Seym. [[Applause]] But going back to the Constitutional Court... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But we are talking about fish, sir, about fishing!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Going back to the Constitutional Court, because this is a beautiful analogy: how a fish breaks from its head... I know the truth hurts. Hit the table and the scissors will talk. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Ad rem! Ad rem!]] You are preparing a temporary bill, knowing that in the autumn you will fund the Poles another bill on the grandstand... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u690	Excuse me, sir. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u691	Mr. Marshal, I've got four seconds, and you're breaking the rules without letting me speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u692	Keep your time, Mr. President, but... Listen to me, sir. Listen to me for a second. [[Calm down.]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] Keep your time before it runs out. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to inappropriate behaviour. [[They just drank too much, Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, really, by respect for Polish fishermen, please do not enter into what is really the essence of the statement of the Member, namely the contention. Allow me to finish my speech. You're welcome, sir. [[A gentleman.]] [[Room voice: 10 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u693	Mr. Marshal, this is not a matter of contention. As I pointed out in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which obliges you to give a vote and allow you to make a formal request, you ignored it, so it is not a matter of contentiousness, it is a fight to respect the fundamental principles of the Sejm's operation. [[Mr. Marshal, he showed the middle finger!]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, fuck you showed!]] [[The middle finger showed the other Members!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u694	Mr. President, I'm sorry. [[Mr. Marshal, what's going on here?! The middle finger showed!]] [[Fuck you showed.]] But you're gonna sit down. Have a seat. [[The middle finger showed you all, Mr. Marshal...]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can you sit down? [[The middle finger showed!]] Sir, would you please sit down?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u695	Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u696	I'll let you finish your speech. [[Give me the punishment!]] Have a seat. I ask Mr Cimoszewicz to take his place. I'm calling you into order. [[Here you go, I'll sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u697	Mr. Marshal, one sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u698	I'll give you the floor. [[This is no place to point the middle finger!]] Mr Cimoszewicz is called to order for the second time! Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[This is respect for the citizens. The middle finger showed.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But you are destroying the property of the Sejm, sir. Calm down, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, if there has been inappropriate behavior... [[Middle finger, Marshal!]] If inappropriate behaviour has taken place, the ethics committee will take care of it at the request of the Members. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[What are you laughing at?]] [[The voice from the room: Why don't you knock...]] At the moment, however, Mr Cimoshewicz is once again called to order and I ask him not to throw a seym table on the bench, because it is a pity for the tablet, and the jury is a pity. [[I'm asking you to... oh, show me again! He's still putting it in his mouth!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr... [[...we are in the Seym of the Republic of Poland!]] [[Smell it!]] Mr... Mr... [[Mr Piotr Pyzik approaches Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz and shows him the middle finger]] [[Are you drunk? Are you drunk?]] Mr... [[Are you drunk?]] I also ask Mr Pyzik to take his place. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] I'm really glad it's in your mouth, not your nose. I ask Mr Myrcha to finish his statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u699	One sentence. Mr. Marshal, from this side of the room I have heard slogans such as: shut up, recently from Mr. Prosecutor Peterowicz: you clown, but when it comes to this gesture that you are showing us, you do not show it to the Members, you show it to all Poles who voted for us who are watching today's debate. [[Applause]] You show this gesture of ignorance to Poles, not us. [[This is an outrage!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u700	Thank you. Thank you, Mr President, but I hope that the declaration made by your predecessor that the parliamentary club will support this solution to the Senate regarding aid to Polish fishermen is still in force. [[I didn't deny it.]] I'm so happy for you. [[And did you pay attention to the behaviour of your envoy?]] Dear Mr Cimoszewicz, if you were less excited, perhaps you would notice that I am separated from this part of the room by a computer monitor... [[The voice from the hall: You know what, tap your head.]] ...but if there were any inappropriate gestures, behaviors, as I said, the ethics committee will take care of it. Ladies and gentlemen... [[I beg you, for God's sake, this is unacceptable!]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[This is unacceptable!]] We are at the point: Report from the Senate committee on the amendment of the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. I would very much like to inform the High House that Mr Meysztowicz also wanted to speak on this subject, because the modern club has 2 minutes left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u701	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I really wanted to refer to this topic and I wanted to thank Marshal Terlecki very much that he did not say at this point instead of: get off the platform - so that, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. And by the way, Mr. Marshal, it's sad that we're witnessing such a theater, otherwise you can't call it. What you are showing right now, your attitude towards the Members of the opposition, you can do anything. You break the constitution, you break the law... [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] [[Voice from the hall: Who breaks the constitution?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u702	Mr... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u703	Who's breaking? President of the Republic of Poland of the PiS... [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] ...premier Szydło of PiS. [[Recipe!]] [[Voice from the room: You.]] Plus, you're still a marshal... [[Voice from the Chamber: President of the Tribunal.]] ...which unfortunately does not fully comply with the Sejm's rules of procedure. [[To the doctor!]] You can do anything. I'd love to see a doctor with you. [[Rzepliński's breaking the constitution.]] You break the constitution, you break the law, you determine... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Can I ask for this project?]] Please? [[Don't talk nonsense, man.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u704	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u705	Mr President, have you given any thought to what you are saying? [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] Yes? [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Talk about it.]] Mr. Marshal, would you mind referring to the words of your buddy?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u706	I could. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Can I talk about the project?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u707	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u708	I address all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u709	Guys.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u710	Perhaps the guys are at the Modern Club, we have colleagues at the parliamentary club. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Time's running out!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u711	No, after what your colleague and I said... They're dudes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u712	Mr President, don't argue because you are running out of time. I ask all my colleagues to allow Mr Meysztowicz to complete the issue of the development of the fishing sector, because he is doing well, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u713	So, ladies and gentlemen, you can be sure that no matter what you've done, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You won't get rid of the opposition, and we'll be with you all the time... [[Speaking of fish.]] ...look at your hands and we won't let you ruin this country... [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Project.]] ...in the next three years of your term of office. Thank you very much. [[What about this subsidy?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u714	Thank you very, very much, sir. Once again, I ask my colleagues and colleagues at the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice not to force me to irritate Mr Brieza by using the bell, so please... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You're mocking me, Marshal.]] ...please do not disturb me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: And this is Mr Marshal's treatment of Members.]] I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u715	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Free and Solidarnia Circle on the amendment of the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. Following the amendments of the Senate, the bill has been slightly modified. In his amendments, the Senate referred inter alia. to a point setting out the need to complement the actions set out in the Regulation of the European Parliament on investments to reduce emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases, to increase the energy efficiency of fishing vessels, as well as investments eligible for fishing gear. The proposed amendment will allow this financial effort to come from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which will allow the fishing industry to reduce its own costs and to better safeguard the environment. The Circle of Woni and Solidarni fully accepts the amendments tabled by the Senate and will support the bill under review. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u716	Thank you very much, Madam President. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, asked for the floor. With the deep hope that the speech will address the development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, I would like to express my vote to you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u717	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very sorry that some of you have not responded to the amendments or to the Senate's proposals on such an important issue. And to the media, I wanted to point out that it was a shame that you weren't in this room, as the Prime Minister had a very important speech today about Brexit. No camera was in the O.R. at the time. [[Maybe it's not that important.]] Now there's a lot of them. [[The Prime Minister led to Brexit.]] As regards the answer to the question of the Member of the Modern Club and Mr Carrot. I had already had the pleasure of answering these questions when I presented the report on the meetings of the Sejm Committee. The agency has its branches, it is an agency that can be said in quotes: it worked in battle. This is no problem for fishermen to be distributed and allocated to fishermen through the agency. There is no need for additional posts and no costs associated with this. On the other hand, Commissioner, this law is being amended precisely because the previous government has wrongly prepared this law... [[We're all wrong.]] ...and the Government Legislation Centre stated that the regulations could not be used to mobilise these funds, so it was necessary by amending to identify the body to do so, and to assign individual roles to the individual public administrations which have this fund, to be responsible for them and to grant funds to fishermen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u718	Thank you very much, Member. I know I'm probably gonna put myself through that part of the room this time, but, well, once in a while, he's dead. Here I have, here I have, well, I don't want to use colloquialisms. But unlike the honourable Member, I would like to express my gratitude to the media that they are present because they are significantly increasing the attendance of the opposition at this late hour, and that is always good for parliamentarianism, as it is in this Chamber. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Thank you kindly. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 42 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws (prints Nos 756 and 758). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u719	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I am very pleased that an important project, a proposal for a law amending the Act on Minimum Compensation, despite the late season enjoys considerable interest among almost all parliamentary clubs. The Social Policy and Family Committee considered the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws, print No 756, on 21 July this year. The Senate has introduced two amendments to this law. Amendment 1 clarifies the provision of the Act in order to eliminate possible interpretative doubts. Amendment 2 adapts the wording of the provision to the requirements of the legislative technique. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has accepted these amendments of the Senate and recommends that the High House adopt them as in the committee's report, print No 758. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Way to go, Bożenka!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u720	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. In this connection, I will also ask Bożena Boris-Szopa to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u721	It's just great. Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, it is with great pleasure that I present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws, print No 756, and on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, print No 758. I would like to remind you here that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice at first reading supported the government draft of the bill in question, recognising that the provisions contained in it are the implementation of the good change announced in the election campaign, aimed at the lowest-rate employees and persons providing work on a legal basis other than the employment relationship, i.e. those who perform or receive a contract or provide services. We support the amendments made by the Senate and we will vote in favour of the bill, along with the amendments made by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u722	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u723	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws contained in print No 758. The Senate has proposed two specific amendments and the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports these amendments. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Beautiful.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u724	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Maciej Masłowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u725	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to refer to the report of the Social Affairs and Family Committee and the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws, print Nos 756 and 758. The adoption of the two amendments of the Senate will clarify the provisions of the Act and are editorial in nature. Like the Sejm committee, we see the legitimacy of their introduction, mainly because it is not desirable to have any interpretation. The Kukiz Club will vote in favour of them because the Senate's proposals do not interfere with the main assumptions and the very essence of the law on minimum remuneration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u726	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. [[Now we're asking for the fish.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u727	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! To Mr Suski: I will speak for 15 seconds about the subject, and I will continue to go on and on. Is that okay? Okay. [[As always.]] [[Voice from the room: Standard.]] So first, I'm gonna turn to the Senate's amendments. They don't bring much in our opinion, because we still believe that this bill is a bad bill, that it brings more harm than benefits. We do not deny that some entrepreneurs have actually taken advantage of the possibility of hiring for starvation rates so far, and that is a fact, while this law will to a large extent hit small, small, medium, and above all those who operate on the basis of self-employment. The cost of their living... [[Those who paid fair and square...]] Can I just calm down... Now I'm not blabbering, and I'm talking about it, so why don't you let me finish? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u728	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u729	I'm sorry you have to be a witness to this, but maybe it's good for you to see how the Law and Justice work at night, because it's a little bit different during the day or at night. [[What about subsidies?]] So in abstraction from the rest, we don't think this bill should be adopted in this form. Our request for minimum remuneration to be dependent on the region was not accepted. We called for a solution that is in other countries, namely that the lowest salary is based on the average salary in a given district. We think that this solution would be fair and good. I'm not gonna beat you anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u730	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, including the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't? In that case, I would like to ask Małgorzata Zwierzan. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u731	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Act amending the Act on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws. Raising the minimum wage for work is a step towards improving the standard of life of Poles, a step that the compatriots expect to achieve. The amendments introduced by the Senate in this law do not change the main assumptions of the change that fits into common expectations. The Free and Solidarni Members' Circle will vote in favour so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u732	Thank you very much. Because there is still time for the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u733	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about a minimum wage, but I don't think the Law and Justice Club is a minimum wage specialist, because at this meeting the Sejm introduced two of its projects, which involved increases - 9,000. For the Prime Minister and 5,000. plus for ministers and vice-ministers. [[Voice from the room: This is about? That's bullshit.]] Let me remind you that there is a record number in this government, namely 118. But, ladies and gentlemen, this may be a slow night, because the entertainment in the PiS's benches is very big... [[But we did it to you, didn't we?]] ...is another night of shame, the night of shame, when you murder [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Constitutional Tribunal, when Mr. Marshal once again in the case of the bill... [[It hurts, it hurts.]] ...which is of a systemic nature, does not allow questions, and the Members of the opposition are forced to make a ruse in order to be able to speak... [[Octopus.]] ...and tell the Polish community what the purpose of your actions is. The purpose of your actions is absolute dismantling. The Constitutional Tribunal. [[That's about the fish?]] The purpose of your actions - and this is highlighted in the law, and partly in the Senate amendments - is the absolute failure to comply with the opinion of the Venice Commission. [[Voice from the room: About!]] Remember, in March of this year, the Court delivered its judgment, its ruling on your defective, non-constitutional Constitutional Tribunal Act of December. In this case... What are you doing in this bill? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You duplicate the same mistakes, the same mistakes, the same rules, among others. you're introducing the so-called. a queue on applications to the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Right.]] You make the rules inconclusively. These provisions clearly violate the principles of correct legislation. This project was a violation of the rules. Today's justice committee meeting... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...was incorrect...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u734	Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr President - as you can see, it is not necessary to resort specifically to a fortress to be able to say what you want from this speaker. [[You have a good finger in turning off the microphone.]] But the cameras are gone, sir. But nothing, please, Mrs Bożena Boris-Raccoon, rapporteur for the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u735	Thank you very much. Mr President, I was so pleased that you are here and that you want to discuss a problem that is important for most Poles regarding minimum wage. [[Voice from the room: I thought it was 3,000. More for you.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't interrupt.]] Do you and your teammates realize that more than 1.5 million people earn less than the lowest wage? Are you guys... [[And how much did you want to make by signing the PiS Act?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u736	But why are you interrupting? [[Because this lady talks to me, and I answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u737	I didn't sign my name, sir. [[Speech outside the microphone]] [[Bożenka, talk to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u738	Excuse me, miss. Mr President, you have already been, so to speak, quite painfully treated for your inappropriate behaviour, but I see that you are consistently moving towards another punishment. [[You could have beaten me.]] Not enough, Mr President, that you have abused the Parliamentary Speaker to carry out this attack, yet you are insulting your message. [[I'm not offended.]] If you make this impossible, I'll call you to order, and then I'll refer you to the ethics committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Go to Komorowski's service.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u739	Thank you very much, Marshal. In fact, we are talking about the lowest salary, we are talking about workers who are not legally employees, are contractors, are service providers, are workers of a worse category within the meaning of the Labour Code. We are talking about workers for whom the Constitutional Tribunal does not mean much, for whom the most important thing is to survive from the first to the first. I wanted to thank the government very warmly from this point of view for submitting this proposal and to ask all parliamentarians to adopt this law tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u740	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. Mr President, we still have point 43. I urge you. [[Yes?]] I'm encouraging you. We proceed with the examination of point 43 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Energy Law and certain other laws (prints Nos 764 and 766). [[Voice from the hall: Stay with us.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, the cameras are gone, the opposition jury is empty. I would very much like to ask Mr Maciej Małecki to submit a report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u741	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Energy Commission... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: And now it will come out that they are not there.]] ...and the Treasury today dealt with amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Energy Law Act and other laws. There are two amendments and in both cases the committee recommends their adoption. The first amendment concerns clarification of the rules for achieving the National Indicator Objective, limiting this to the territory of the Republic of Poland, excluding exports. The second amendment, on the other hand, clarifies the content of the article on the subject, providing that the obligation to lodge a security in the case of entities trading with foreign trade and manufacturing is postponed by 3 months. So much information about the committee's work. Once again, the committee recommends that both amendments be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u742	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm has determined that in the discussion on this point... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...the agenda will hear three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Maciej Małecki will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u743	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as I know, the chairman of the committee, Mr Marek Suski, was to appear. But briefly: The Law and Justice Club supports both amendments tabled... [[Bravo!]] ...in the course of work in the Senate and recommended by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u744	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u745	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[In two words.]] It has been my honor to present the position of the Civic Platform on printing No. 764 on the Act amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. This is the Senate report. The Civic Platform will support both amendments. I pay particular attention to Amendment 2, which takes into account the BAS position that the law should have longer vacathio legis. I regret that this longer vacathio legis applies only to LPG and gas traders that import it from abroad, and there is no extension of the period of law adjustment and the possibility of converting long-term contracts that could include small companies that import gas up to 100 million m3 for 100 000. recipients. So we support this, and we also believe that this law will undoubtedly, we hope, contribute to the achievement of the goals that have been set, thus ending the grey zone, just so that it does not happen at the expense of competitiveness in the market and at the expense of small companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u746	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: So you can talk about it.]] And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski. [[Christopher, short, okay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u747	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to refer to the report of the Senate Committee on the Act amending the Energy Act in general. I'm not gonna get divorced anymore so I don't waste any more time. Here's the deal. It is a law changed at this moment in order, however, to strengthen the energy of the big ones more than the small ones. There is a question of securing PLN 10 million for entrepreneurs, but this is a matter of 93 entities directly concerned. There may be a job threat there, but there is a promise from the Ministry, which will monitor this problem for 3 months and if anything happens wrong with the energy market - there is such a declaration, I personally heard it - then it will be a correction. As a result, Kukiz15 will support this project, and that's it. We'll support the project right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u748	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas. He made a statement in writing. I would therefore ask the rapporteur of the committee of Maciej Małecki to speak. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Maciej!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u749	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We want to close the case with this bill or even eliminate the gray zone in fuel. This case costs the state budget from several hundred million to several billion a year. In fact, in 2012-2013 alone, the loss of the state budget was between PLN 3 billion and PLN 4 billion in the diesel segment. This also affected Poland's energy security very badly. This law introduces mechanisms to control the shadow economy, to counter dishonest operators, and at the same time to protect those who want to conduct their business in this sector in a fair, legal way. I would add that this law is coordinated with the law adopted on 7 July amending the Act on the Tax on Goods and Services, which was introduced by the Ministry of Finance. Of course, we are also counting on the fact that the act of the law, its impact will be monitored on an ongoing basis and lessons will also be drawn from it. Thank you very much and I recommend once again to the High House that the amendments tabled in the Senate be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Maciej!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u750	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u751	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern for the draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws, the printing of Seym No. 764. The Senate has made two amendments to the project. The first one clarifies the scope of the obligation to achieve the national indicator target to the territory of the Republic of Poland. The second concerns the obligation for companies operating on the LPG market to lodge a security. Companies licensed for LPG trading will be required to establish a security within 3 months from the date of entry into force of the Act under the risk of the loss of the licence. The Modern Posel Club was in favour of limiting the obligation to provide security by small and medium-sized Polish LPG companies, so we are in favour of rejecting the second amendment and adopting the first clarification.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u752	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 44 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Health on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Health Protection against the Consequences of Tobacco and Tobacco Products (Prints Nos 763 and 765). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u753	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Health and Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Health Protection against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products, prints No 763 and 765 respectively. The Senate has proposed eight amendments. They were all supported by the joint committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u754	I, too, thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Basia, but in two words.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u755	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am acting on the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. The law on which we are proceeding is based on the tobacco directive adopted by the European Parliament in February 2014 aimed at reducing the number of smokers. As the date indicates, its rules should have come into force long ago, the delay is considerable and caused by the actions of the previous government, as well as lobbyists. The requirements of the European Union must be met. A revision of the Health Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products is necessary because potential smokers are young people whose health is particularly important for us. We also need to protect passive smokers. They don't want to inhale the poison, and they're often forced to. Smokers rarely consider the environment. This law protects children, young people and all those who have to participate in situations where cigarettes are burned. Non-smoking fashion should reign undividedly like healthy food fashion, active sports, healthy lifestyles and include not only elites. Young people need to be made aware that each pack of cigarettes keeps them away from their dream car, branded pants or a wonderful holiday. We'll have to give them a calculator. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And let them figure out how much they're losing a month and a year, let alone health. Therefore, the Act provides for a ban on the sale of e-cigarettes to minors, a ban on smoking in public places, a ban on placing information in the store: a ban on the sale of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes or back-up containers to persons under the age of 18. A ban will also be imposed on producers and importers of advertising, sponsorship of sports, cultural, educational and health events. Retail trade in e-cigarettes and nicotine liquids on the Internet will also be banned. The aim of the changes provided for in the Act is to protect the health of Poles and Poles. Law and Justice are highly recommended by the above mentioned law. The bill. Together, let us take care of beauty and health. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u756	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Alicia Chybicka, the Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u757	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my honor to present the position of the Civic Platform Club. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] on the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. The Senate has made eight amendments, seven amendments are in principle editorial, except for amendment 4, which is about ..and this amendment is very much needed. On the other hand, as far as Amendment 8 is concerned, it says that it is important for entrepreneurs to respect the principles of the Article. 2 Constitution: the principle of protection of acquired rights, the principle of trust in the law and the principle of protection of interests in progress, extend the period for adapting to the new conditions of the Act. This amendment will allow information on tobacco products to function at points of sale until 31 December 2016. The bill has a vacathio legis for 2 weeks. During this time, which is six months - this amendment extends the ban on tobacco advertising - many young people will probably reach for tobacco products. Therefore, in view of the position that human life and human health are more important than the good of businessmen... It is not a great art to remove advertising from any place. I guarantee you that each of you will know that all you have to do is reach out, rip that information off, and she will be gone. [[Thanks.]] The Civic Platform Club will therefore be in favour of all seven amendments and will vote against Amendment 8. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u758	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Szramka, Mr Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u759	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Tobacco Directive is wrong - we have talked about it many times, but because we are in the European Union, we must accept it. Many times politicians of various parties, including the governing party, assured that before the elections we would apply the principle as a country: the Union plus zero, i.e. to implement EU rules and not to impose burdens on Poles, Polish farmers and Polish entrepreneurs. This law goes far beyond the expectations of the European Union. The Senate amendments, and there are as many as eight of them, show how badly, poorly formal and even grammatically prepared this law is. The most important, however, was also the amendment of the Kukiz Club Members15, which was already reported during the work of the Sejm in the Committee on Health, concerning information on tobacco products placed at points of sale. During the work of the committee and the speaker, we said that the deadline put forward by the government to remove this information is unrealistic, impossible to enforce from thousands of points of sale and - and equally important - very unfavourable to the budgets of these smallest entrepreneurs. We proposed to postpone the mandatory deadline to remove information from sales points by the end of December this year, just as it was found in the Senate amendment. The Senate, accepting this amendment, referred directly to the Constitution in the explanatory memorandum, repeating our arguments: the principle of protection of acquired rights, trust in the law and the protection of interests in progress. Of course, we will vote in favour of the Senate amendments. Thank you. Good night, ladies and gentlemen. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u760	Thank you. Good night. But I hope you stay with us, at least until the end of this point. I would like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Zwierzan. [[Marek Ruciński.]] Mr. Marek Ruciński. Excuse me, sir, and I apologise to you, too. You're welcome. [[Voice from the hall: And this is closing the mouth of the opposition.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u761	That's a good joke, though, late in the day. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Health Protection against the Consequences of Tobacco Use... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, miss, could I finish? Because I only say a minute. ...and tobacco products. First of all, I would like to make it clear that, in the context of the process of drafting laws on the wider protection of health, it is the health of citizens that should always be a priority for us. There is no doubt that the implementation of these provisions into the Polish legal order is precisely the expression. Limiting access to new types of e-cigarettes is a welcome step. The State as an institution should take action to limit the use of these devices, especially among the youngest who have so far treated electronic cigarettes as harmless and widely available, and even worse, fashionable gadgets. [[Game in the O.R.]] Doctor, sir, I would like to finish, please. In addition, I am convinced that the legislation which is included in the Act, which concerns the prohibition on the exposure of these products, will reduce the number of people reaching after such drugs and will become part of the nature of existing activities focusing on building awareness of the harmfulness of tobacco and related products. I hope that the Minister will agree with me that by adding amendments to the directive, we can only say that we care even more about our citizens than the average country of the European Union, so these amendments to the directive, which also support the Ministry of Health, are really welcome. In conclusion, the Members' Club Modern will vote in favour of the bill in this form. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u762	Thank you very much, sir. And this time certainly Małgorzata Zwierzan. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Bravo, Małgosia, for her condition...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u763	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[We admire, respect.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u764	Ladies... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u765	The amended draft law introduces health changes and adapts Polish legislation to the requirements of international law. The regulation of electronic cigarettes should take place considerably earlier, regardless of international obligations, as I have already mentioned from this stand. However, the work on the Senate bill did not dispel my doubts about the project. The Act equals smokers of traditional cigarettes and those who want to reduce the negative consequences of smoking by means of electronic cigarettes. My assessment of the proposed solutions remains ambiguous. Most of the amendments adopted by the Senate concern editorial changes, thus not affecting the main objectives of the project. The amendment to extend the period to adapt to the new conditions of the Act by entrepreneurs by 31 December 2016 is, in our opinion, a compromise between the demands of the environments demanding the extension of the vacathio legis and the enforcement of European law. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u766	Thank you very much. He asked for a vote... [[No, it's okay.]] However, the rapporteur resigned? Wonderful. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of items 47 and 48 of the agenda: 47. First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on TTIP and CETA international agreements (print No 727). 48. First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on opposition to the ratification procedure proposed by the European Commission between the European Union and Canada - CETA without acceptance of the Member States (Print No 728). I ask Mr Grzegorz Długi to present the justification for the draft resolution from print 727. You're welcome. [[Sin, short.]] [[One minute, mercy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u767	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try not to be long, just short this time. [[Where's Mr. Appeal?]] Member of the Appeal went to Wroclaw. He's probably changing his civil status, so we keep our fingers crossed for him. [[Oh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u768	That means it's a bachelor party now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u769	Right. [[Voice from the room: He threw himself at 500+.]] But it's still a long job. High Izbo, free trade is a value for which the whole civilized world is in favour. It is a principle whose implementation facilitates economic development and equalisation, raising levels of living in different countries. The European Union is among others. such a free trade zone and we know how much this has helped Polish exports. For these values, the elimination of customs barriers is necessary and desirable. Reducing non-tariff barriers is another necessary condition for the creation of free trade zones. Open, encouraging investment conditions, fair investment and fair cross-border investment in selected technologies, information, innovation, ideas - all these elements can only help to develop individual countries. The exchange of information and the international cooperation of services, which increases our security, is something that we all seem to want. All these elements are to be and should be provided in the negotiated Transatlantic Agreement on Trade and Investment, so-called. TTIP. These elements, which I have just mentioned, will be positive in the free trade area and in general in the values that I have been talking about, but only if additional conditions are provided. These terms are equal, partner rules, equal for all, when all players, in other words, will have to follow the same rules. In other words, if the manufacturer of Polish cosmetics, which will apply EU law, where a thousand or 1,5 thousand. substances are prohibited if this cosmetic competes with cosmetics produced in another jurisdiction, where almost no substances are prohibited, the question arises whether these rules are equal. Are we dealing with an equal constitution then? Freedom of trade is only possible if this freedom is enslaved by the principles of playing equal for all. It's the same as equality against the law. Before TTIP is introduced, we must be sure that this equality of principles is ensured. We can't leave it to the bureaucrats who are probably the only ones in contact with trade when they buy a gift from Tiffany for their partner. As we know, the TTIP negotiations have limited transparency, but we believe that the text will be public after the negotiations have been concluded. Nothing should prevent national politicians and citizens from expressing their views on its content. However, the negotiators need to be reminded every day that we will accept or reject their actions. Someone might ask: Why this resolution today? What is the point of this confusion, since the European Commission, by the mouth of Commissioner Malmström, announces that both the Canadian counterpart CETA and TTIP should be presumed, they will be regarded as so-called. mixed contracts, i.e. eligible for those to which Article applies. 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, i.e. where the competence of both the Union and the Member States is, of course, independent of the functioning of the procedures relating to the Article. 218 treaty. However, attention should be paid to what the Commissioner said a little later, and she said: The Commission is convinced that, from a legal point of view, the agreement is an EU agreement, which does not require ratification by individual national parliaments. She continued: However, I propose that it be ratified as a mixed agreement, because the European Commission wants to show the Member States that they are the owners of this process and take political decisions on this matter. Thank you very much for your kindness, Commissioner, but since this is the European Commission's understanding of the matter, the Commission can change its mind on this at any time. The Commission can change its mind and treat the agreement as an EU, as this is legally the case. [[It was supposed to be short, wasn't it?]] This means that the European Commission openly treats the law selectively and according to political criteria, and this is an unacceptable fallandisation of the law or the writing of the law, and that peace is peace. The representatives of our country must do their best. That is why we are appealing here to those who represent our interests in the European Union, our interests in the negotiations. The representatives of our country must make every effort so that both agreements can be discussed in our civic and expert groups. If they provide or provide the same conditions for Polish entrepreneurs and consumers as for others, then they can only be accepted. Amendments must be incorporated in the resolution submitted. This is because we already know that the European Commission has started to work so that the agreement with Canada can be applied on a provisional basis. Ratification by all Member States will significantly extend. It's understandable that this whole process will be extended even for a few years. The agreement after provisional application, but for several years, if it contains, of course, damaging our businesses and consumers' records, can have irreversible consequences. This is both bureaucratic and undemocratic. We all remember ACTA. Let us not repeat the same mistakes. On the modern side, which is, however, absent, I am sorry, is partially present, I would like to say that Mrs Merkel has a similar view as the one just made, so I am counting on the support of this left side as well. Good law is long-established, so let us be patient, let us not allow bureaucrats to pursue their agenda. Good treaties need to be adopted, but only when we check them when we know they're good. At the same time, I would like to make these amendments here, Marshal. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u770	Not now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u771	Not now? I was told now. Okay, then we'll put them in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u772	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Sawicki to present the justification for the draft resolution in print no. 728.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u773	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Długi announced that it would be brief this time, but it did not work out very well. I will try to shorten my speech, especially as many aspects of the proposed draft resolution have been explained by Mr Długi from the legal side. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the agreement on economic cooperation between the European Union and Canada has in fact already entered into force. Only the European Parliament's acceptance is still needed. This announcement by the Commissioner that these agreements will be ratified by the parliaments of the European States is no longer valid. Therefore, in our resolution, we note that the completed negotiation of the cooperation agreement with Canada can be modelled on the TTIP agreement. I am not opposed to expanding free trade areas, but there is one condition: this must be done on an equal footing. For several years, the Ministry of Agriculture has strongly opposed the secrecy of the TTIP negotiations, but, unfortunately, these negotiations are still not public. When European farmers, including Polish farmers, have been forced for 12 years to invest heavily in raising food production standards, including food quality, these standards, unfortunately, neither in Canada nor in the United States, do not apply. If we add to this significant differences in the concentration of production in North America and Europe, when these agreements are adopted at this stage, we have very uneven competition. What has bothered me personally for years is this competition between the United States and the European Union for markets only and exclusively for a rich consumer, for their own markets, and thus for each other. On the other hand, there is a total lack of cooperation or it is far from sufficient in terms of placing food surpluses from the northern part of our globe in areas where there is indeed a shortage of food. If 1 billion people in the world are starving and another 3 billion are undernourished, then a rich Europe and a rich United States cannot offer each other further contracts and more, so to speak, facilitation of access to a richer consumer. As far as food is concerned in the United States, it is very important that the level of genetically modified food, the way of preservation, the chlorinated meat - all of this, as a result of several decades, can have a negative impact on the health of citizens. Although these poorer Europeans may be pleased at first, because perhaps as a result of the adoption of these agreements, food in Europe will come into being, the consequences of such a solution may be no less significant than those we have just discussed on the tobacco directive. I therefore request that both draft resolutions be passed to the committee and adopted so that the Polish Parliament strongly opposes the procedure and the pace of implementation of these agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u774	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Dominik Tarczyński has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u775	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour of presenting my position on the resolution. I wanted to go straight to what Mr Długi was talking about, i.e. to the amendments to your resolution, because, in general, they are heading in the right direction and at committee meetings we had a lot of discussions about how we deal with GMOs and how we deal with different kinds of threats. The direction is good, and I wonder if the text of your resolution is up to date. It's not up to date. What you're talking about, Minister, is partly correct. That statement from the Commissioner you mentioned was from July 5th. We are after the 14th round and the situation is so dynamic that it can be so that really in a week's time these resolutions will be out of date, so your request, Minister, that they go back to the committee to ask the government for documents, to focus on what is now, after the 14th round, is valid, it makes sense. Therefore, we will ask that these resolutions go to the committee so that we can lean on them. This is one of the most important contracts, if not the most important, the 25-year agreement in Poland and we cannot proceed over it very quickly with nervous movements, adopting further resolutions. I think that we should ask the government for additional information about the situation after the 14th round, adopt both texts, look at them and then work out, I hope, a common position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u776	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u777	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The two draft resolutions presented here concern two agreements, one of which is in general in the course of negotiations. It is a trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. These arguments are so outdated that we do not yet know what the final form of this agreement will be, how it will be approved. Most likely it'll be a mixed deal, but this whole mode is still ahead of us. I would also like to say that this is the most openly negotiated agreement of all international agreements to date, although this does not mean that it is quite clear. [[Mr...]] However, always agreements negotiate on the basis of guidelines or instructions and then negotiate secretly, because in some cases it is resolved, in others something is negotiated, there are compromises. [[Do you have access to the documents?]] Yes, they are, there is a reading room in Warsaw. How many times have you visited her, sir? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There's a reading room, you can visit it. The TTIP agreement is negotiated more openly than any other agreement. After each round there are briefings for people, various additional materials are available. That's not how contracts were negotiated before. Only at the end of the contract was the contract signed, initialled, made public. In the TTIP case, we are in the middle of negotiations at all, so these proposals are obsolete. As regards the agreement with Canada also, for another reason, this case is obsolete. The negotiations on the agreement with Canada were concluded in 2014, different from the one stated in the explanatory memorandum, the text was then announced, it is public, it is known. In 2014 the Council [[After signing.]] Yeah, after the signing. Furthermore, in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with that Agreement itself and in accordance with a decision of the Council taken by qualified majority, this Agreement entered into force provisionally. There is a dispute between the Commission and the Member States as to whether this is a mixed agreement or an EU agreement only. This dispute is pending because a similar kind of agreement as with Canada has already been concluded with Singapore is also in force on a provisional basis... [[For years.]] ...yes, but it is a request to the Court of Justice, there is a request in the Court of Justice to determine whether that agreement is only a trade agreement, and then competence belongs to the Union, decisions are taken in the EU procedure, decisions are taken by qualified majority and Parliament is agreed, or is an agreement which also requires ratification by individual Member States. If the Court of Justice settles this with regard to Singapore, we will also be clear about this agreement with Canada, because as I say, its scope is this Same as the Singaporean deal. So also from this point of view, I believe that these resolutions today are not at all on the matter, because, as I say, from July 5th or July 7th this year it is already temporary. There's another case at last. The assessment of these contracts often highlights the losses of producers, the risks to producers, the fact that they produce cheaper, produce more, but the ultimate aim of production is the consumer, please countries, and the benefits of the consumer: greater choice, cheaper products. Of course, the consumer must be informed, the safety of such production must be respected. If there are lower standards, he must know, but the target is the consumer. If any producers are losing on this, they're gonna have to pull out of production. The State is from helping to restructure, negotiate transition periods, provide some, I don't know, retraining, reimbursement of money, as it is done, I don't know, with fishermen and other cases or with miners, when they have to be withdrawn from production and give them some compensation, the possibility of another action or otherwise to compensate them. On the other hand, there is no point in maintaining unprofitable, uncompetitive areas of production, companies or producers in the global economy, because, as I say, the ultimate goal is the consumer and if someone in the world produces cheaper, then let's not be afraid of it. The same applies to food as well. The third world, part of this world, does not have enough food and is starving, but some have large surpluses that the European Union and the United States are not letting in, they are blocking this food, because it would be cheaper than our European food, cheaper would be sugar, cheaper would be various other products. For consumers, especially for poorer consumers in the European Union and Poland, it would be valuable to have e.g. Cheap sugar or cheap food. As for GMOs, the principles of the TTIP negotiations are that the GMO rules we apply in the European Union, and each country in its own way, are to remain intact, that the American GMOs will enter those countries that will release GMOs into each other, but the countries of Europe have agreed on some restrictions here and have some discretion in their application, and this is to be done by the TTIP intact. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In total, I am applying, Mr. Marshal, to reject both draft resolutions at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u778	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi now has the floor on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u779	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I fear Mr Święcicki did not understand, but it is late, perhaps he did not listen to what was said. We're talking about something completely different. I didn't talk too much -- almost not at all -- about confidentiality and confidentiality, because at this stage, that's not the most important thing. [[But it's in the justifications.]] I would also like to inform you that it is not true, because it was only on 6 July that a request was made to the Council to conclude an agreement with Canada and on the same day on provisional application. The Council has not yet adopted this, so it is not yet adopted, it is up to the Council. And that is why we are saying that our representatives in the Council should say no to provisional application, I am talking about an agreement with Canada. On the other hand, if you already know the contents of the TTIP, I congratulate you because, as far as I know, it has not yet been signed and has not been negotiated, therefore, Let's not say what's in there if it's not there yet, so calm down for now. [[Applause]] Like I said, let's take things easy, and that's all it's all about. The point is to make it a level playing field. We're not talking about this... Of course, it is best for the consumer, but according to equal opportunities. Not that one only because it's overseas can operate without complying with standards, and the product will be allowed on our market, while we, in order for the product to be allowed on our market, must meet different standards. If our chickens must meet the right conditions for them to be admitted to the market and the American chickens will not have to meet these conditions, then there is something wrong here, I think we can agree on that. So our view is this: we allow everything to be the same as the rules of the game. If there are the same rules of the game that determine that the Polish producer and Canadian producer, American, I don't know, Chinese, any, must follow the same rules, then all is perfect, because this is a free market. On the other hand, if we assume that one has to apply stricter standards and the other does not, it is not a free market, it is a free American woman, and we do not want that. That is why we also want to see that the agreement with Canada can also be ratified first and not applied provisionally, because it will be long-term. We're supposed to take it easy, we're supposed to get to know it, we're supposed to discuss it. If it's good, it'll be great, if it's not, let's block it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u780	Thank you. Mr Michał Stasiński now has a voice on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u781	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very pleased to agree with Mr Tarczynski, President of the TTIP subcommittee. In fact, the situation is very dynamic, we are talking about the CETA agreement on which negotiations ended in 2014. And it just so happens that the main part of these negotiations took place in time, Minister, when you were in government, so you had the best opportunity to look into this agreement. That is why I am amazed at why we need to discuss the 2014 agreement today at 3 p.m. 1.05. [[It's for Mr. Święcicki rather.]] I don't know what the rush is. I was trying to find out if, I don't know, he was involved in the TTIP case... or if any chlorinated chicken ships were coming to us mass. They're not coming, the deal's not done yet, the 14th round is over. We are constantly monitoring this as part of the subcommittee, meeting with government representatives, asking a lot of questions, asking questions on issues that entrepreneurs are really telling us, and we are very concerned about the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises. Both in Poland and in the Union, small and medium-sized enterprises are basically 95% economics, two out of three jobs that are created in the private sector, are created in small and medium-sized enterprises. We ask, for example. about access to the public procurement market, 10% The American economy is this market. We ask whether access to the US public procurement market will be guaranteed not only at federal level but also at state level. We do not get a satisfactory answer, so we ask a government representative and a government representative very strongly declares that he knows this problem, looks at this problem and takes a very clear, strong position in Poland on this matter. That is why, at this stage, I would trust, firstly, EU negotiators who really receive a lot of signals on the scale of Europe. Although this agreement is being negotiated, here I agree with you, just as the Americans simply want to negotiate it, they have set certain conditions here, but there is a very strong movement of non-governmental organisations, consumer organisations that monitor these matters, and I would not be especially afraid of these solutions here, but patiently wait for what will be negotiated. Then we'll look at it and we'll look at it. If we have a great deal, one that will satisfy us, then it is as if the mode of adoption will be a secondary issue. As far as Ceuta is concerned, the main problem in Ceuta concerns ISDS, which, in the context of the Union's current views on ISDS, is somewhat out of line with contemporary expectations. But the CETA agreement provides for the possibility to adapt these solutions flexibly and we will try to ensure that the TTIP agreement also creates a mechanism for flexible changes to this agreement simply in the process of its application, so I would not see any risks here either. You write in the explanatory memorandum about ISDS mechanism, but I note that Poland has signed ISDS mechanism with the United States since 1990. [[With 60 countries.]] Exactly, but we're talking about the US, too, and we're talking about the TTIP deal. Generally, the countries of the European Union have almost 1400 such agreements signed with different countries around the world. As far as GMOs are concerned, there was a meeting on the agricultural committee. My dear colleague Sachaiko, the President, also looks very closely at this subject and to whom I trust, but I know that he will not allow the interests of Polish agriculture to be affected here. What's interesting, Minister, is that in the U.S., the market, which is growing the most dynamically in the agricultural sector, is the so-called market. organic farming. I, knowing our farmers and seeing how they handled the apple market after the Russian embargo, am convinced that if the Americans let us into this market, our farmers will roll this market much faster than the American chickens will roll our market. I have a very strong conviction about this. As far as the lack of reliable information about the impact of negotiated agreements on the Polish economy is concerned, I attended a meeting at the Polish Academy of Sciences, where unfortunately we all learned that the small profit we will make from TTIP is due to the fact that our share of exports to the US is only traceable. We export engines, engine parts, turbine parts that American companies manufacture in the Aviation Valley and export to the United States. This is our reality of export to the United States. That's why we export trace, we get trace. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I agree with the applicant - the most important thing is that the conditions are good so that we do not lose on this first and foremost. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u782	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sawicki will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u783	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Stasiński! You know me a little bit, and you know perfectly well that in matters I don't know, I don't speak. I assure you that as far as the issue of these two resolutions and precisely the deadline is concerned, it is appropriate. Since the CETA agreement adopted in 2014 is only being implemented at the moment and is still waiting for the ratification of the European Parliament, it is clear that the negotiators themselves had a huge problem with its publicity and justification, with Parliament's conviction that this agreement should be ratified. As far as TTIP and the 14th round are concerned, the rest of Europe's politicians really don't know much about this except the negotiators. For 8 years I initiated several debates in the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries of the European Union, asking for information and opportunity for discussion, and every time the information was very enigmatic. If we are talking about a level playing field, please note that the level of export subsidies and US funding is many times higher than the level of support for European agriculture. Moreover, if you are not afraid of the competition of Polish farmers with American farmers in organic food production, it would be good for you to know the conditions and to define what organic food is in the United States and what it is in Poland and Europe. Then you will know very well that we are talking about completely different categories of food. And if we have an average farm in the United States of America of about 300 hectares, and in Europe of several dozen hectares, and the concentration of processing is several times higher than in the European Union, then it is impossible to compete under such conditions. And once again, I stress: the United States will never agree to adopt the standards of food production that we have imposed on ourselves in Europe, and the imposition of these standards has resulted in enormous costs and these costs still need to be maintained in production. It's not there. And please don't underestimate neither the conservation of food beyond the ocean nor genetically modified food, because, as I said in my previous speech, their effects on health and the environment may not be known until two or three generations later. So it would be worthwhile for us to be much more careful in this regard. The PiS website reacted very strongly to one of the constitutional ministers' comments about making ice cream recorded on famous tapes. I would point out that in the course of these negotiations with regard to TTIP, we would not really beat this minister, so to speak, in the production of ice cream. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u784	Thank you very much. One Member joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u785	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the negotiated TTIP, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, I would like to address one point. This particular issue, I see, is of a cross-party nature and has been addressed by my predecessors, Mr Sawicki, Tarczyński, Święcicki and Stasiński. Namely, it is the issue of genetically modified food - GMOs. The US and Europe are two different worlds when it comes to this type of food. There are data showing that in the European Union the percentage of modified crops is 0.5% , and in the U.S., 85 and 90%. This issue cannot, of course, be overlooked in the negotiations. At present, the trade in agricultural products between the European Union and the US on an economic scale is of little importance, but this will certainly change with the adoption of this agreement. In many areas it will probably be beneficial for Europe, but it will certainly increase the US's... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u786	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u787	...your food export to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u788	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u789	...Europe. That is why I ask about this issue of GMOs: How will it be regulated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u790	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I understand that Minister Jerzy Kwieciński will speak at the Ministry of Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u791	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to answer that question, but it was in the last words of the Member, and I do not really know what the question is, so I would ask you very much to clarify this question. I'd love to go back. I just don't know what that's all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u792	Well, then maybe, Minister, on another occasion, because there's no mode here to... [[What is the direction in which the GMO arrangements are going?]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development Jerzy Kwieciński: I understand it's about TTIP, of course, the deal. This question is best answered by a representative of the European Commission, because I would like to point out that this agreement is negotiated not by the Polish Government, but by the European Commission on behalf of all the Member States of the European Union. And it is the European Commission that prepares, negotiates and then presents these conditions to the whole of the European Union. For the time being, there is no such proposal for negotiated conditions. If these conditions are known, we will gladly present them to the High Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Are you Members of the applicant...? I don't see anyone who's willing to speak. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the draft resolutions contained in prints 727 and 728 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 21 July this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Please, Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u793	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Peek-a-boo code. Poland's policy in 2007 and 2015 was similar to the clock mechanism made in Russia and Germany, in which the cuckoo, using the effect of the nomen omen of the eggs dropped, after each election was notoriously cuckooed: PO-PSL, PO-PSL, PO-PSL. The used mechanism was replaced with a domestic product after the clockwork repairs on 24 May and 25 October 2015. However, the market of the importers of watches reacted very sharply and immediately installed in Poland, using foreign capital, a new wholesaler, but with an experienced and tested crew specializing in the distribution of stopwatches, alarm clocks and watches, as well as other clock mechanisms, e.g. Those with delayed ignition, as indicated by the brand of this foreign company itself: the Committee for the Defence of Democracy. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u794	Thank you very much for this extremely long statement today. Katarzyna Czochara is absent. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice. How about the minutes, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u795	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the statements of my favorite, President of the European Parliament Martin Schulz, because it is a kind of Union in a pill, with its many pathologies. Well, in December 2015, he said, judging the situation in Poland, because it is his favourite object of interest that what is happening in Poland is dramatic and has the character of a coup. He supported his argument that he had seen thousands of demonstrations against the government's actions. When the new Polish government drew up its firm position on the so-called. refugees, he threatened Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, he thundered: Europe of ultranationalists - if they win, we will get this Europe not only in this matter, but also in many others. We need the spirit of the European community. And if necessary It's got to be a force imposed. This cannot be the case - and I am one of those people who say so - we are in the 21st century, we are in the 21st century of globalisation to solve global problems with nationalism. At some point you have to fight and you have to say: if necessary We will also fight against others on our own. And by the way, he blackmailed the loss of EU funds, because the refugee problem is not just a German problem and it has nothing to do with it. Another time he allowed himself to say about Poland: It is a democracy controlled in the Putinian style, a dangerous Putinization of European politics. The same Martin Schultz, commenting on recent developments in Turkey, said: I am glad that Turkey has returned to the rule of law. No comment. My statement was supposed to end there, but I must add that Martin Schulz has many names and certainly has the name of some members of the Polish Sejm, who are just as absurd, lying, separated from reality, just harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u796	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Marcin Porzucek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u797	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In particular, politicians of the Civic Platform have said a lot about the quality of Polish democracy recently. Often in an aggressive way, reducing the level of public debate, there are various accusations against the ruling group today, which its mandate takes at the will of the nation. It is worth looking at the reality of the respect for democracy by the Civic Platform environment. As a Member representing Northern and Western Wielkopolska, I received numerous signals of concern from the residents in relation to doubts about the integrity of the supplementary elections to the Council of the City of Piła on 26 July 2015. After the vote was announced, local leaders of the Civic Platform congratulated and with full conviction and proudly claimed that they had won the best. Today we know that the winners of these elections, Mr. Romuald W., the D.A.'s office has just filed a dozen charges. One of the local editors came into possession of surveillance footage that covered the area outside the polls. The film shows how the candidate for the councilman appears several times on the day of the election at the polls in the company of various people. The defendant, acting jointly and in agreement with the appointed persons, was to submit a false statement and request for inclusion on the electoral list, to which the application was to be accompanied by a false statement that both he and the other identified persons reside in this particular electoral district. He confessed. Therefore, a question should also be asked about the role of the city's office. It was in the office that people were included in the electoral register. High Seym! This is another time when there are irregularities in the local elections. I am convinced that the Government of Law and Justice will make every effort to ensure that elections are always fair and transparent, that results are an expression of the will of the nation and that winners win based on fair competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u798	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u799	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! August 14th this year We will celebrate the 75th anniversary of the death of Maximilian Maria Kolbe - the Polish Franciscan, the Presbyter, the missionary and the Holy Catholic Church, the first Polish martyr during World War II. Maximilian Maria Kolbe, or Rajmund Kolbe, was born on January 8, 1894, in Zduńska Wola. His mother was Polish, and his father was German. The difficult financial situation forced Kolby's parents to move. Initially they lived in Łódź, and later in Pabianice, where they both found work. In June 1902, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) Kolbe accepted the first Holy Communion. In the church of St. Matthew in Pabianice had a vision. Our Lady appeared to him then. So he decided to follow his calling and, at the request of the Franciscan missionaries, with the permission of his parents, joined the Franciscan order. At the age of 13, he began his studies at a small seminar in Lviv. After 3 years he began the novitiate in the Order, taking the name Maximilian. In 1912. Kolbe started his studies in Krakow. After a few months, he was sent to Rome, the International Seraphite College. In 1914, he made everlasting vows and took Mary's name. Then he got two PhDs from philosophy and theology. 28 April 1918 Maximilian Maria Kolbe accepted priestly ordination. The Holy Mass was celebrated in the church of Sant'Andrea delle Fratte in Rome. The following year he returned to Poland and took lectures. During his stay in Rome, he and his fellow believers established a relationship between the devout Knights of the Immaculate One. In order to keep in touch with its members, from 1922 he published a monthly magazine in Krakow, the Immaculate Knight, who several years later reached a million copies. In time, he began to publish the Little Journal. The letters included religious, social, political and cultural subjects. In 1927. Kolbe founded the Immaculate Monastery under Warsaw. Between 1931 and 1935, he served as a missionary in Japan, where he founded the Immaculate Japanese. It also opened similar centres in China and India. At the age of 42, he returned to Poland to guide the Immaculate, which in the meantime became the largest Catholic monastery in the world. His activity was suspended during the German occupation. Kolbe was arrested that day. After his release, he organized a service centre for the surrounding population. After he was arrested again, he was imprisoned in Pawiak. 28 May 1941 Kolbe was sent to a concentration camp in Auschwitz. A few months later, he voluntarily chose to die a starving death, saving her convicted fellow prisoner Franciszek Gajowniczek, who, after moving to another camp, was liberated. Maximilian Kolbe died on 14 August 1941 in the death block. The camp officer, the head of the Hans Bock infirmary, killed him with a shot of poison. Kolby's father's body was burned in the camp crematorium. The efforts in the Holy See to raise Father Maximilian to the altars were made after the end of World War II. At the beginning of 1969 Pope Paul VI announced a decree on the heroicity of virtues o. Maximilian. Two years later, a decree was issued stating the miraculous healings of Father Kolbe's intercession. He was beatified as a martyr on October 17, 1971. On October 10, 1982, he was canonized by Pope John Paul. II. In view of the 45th anniversary of the beatification of the monk, the 75th anniversary of his martyrdom and the 100th anniversary of the Association of the Immaculate Knights, the solemn opening of the exhibition dedicated to St. Father Maximilian Kolbe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u800	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At present, collective passenger transport is based primarily on the principles of free competition of transport companies, limited and secured by the obligation to obtain authorisation to provide such services in the area concerned. Aware of the need to implement EU legislation, it should be noted that the introduction of such a collective transport system will lead to a monopolism of the market and exclusion of small transport operators who do not have the possibility (e.g. a sufficiently large rolling stock) to compete with larger operators. According to the provisions of the Collective Transport Act, yes, companies with which the organiser will not sign the contract will actually be able to provide transport services, but because they will not receive compensation that operators will receive, their survival on the market will be put into question. The compensation for the reductions applied constitutes a significant part of the revenue for such carriers. On the other hand, there is a danger for passengers entitled to relief (students, students, pensioners, pensioners, etc.) who will have to pay for the full amount of the ticket on lines that will not be classified as utility lines. Self-governments do not hesitate to introduce a public collective transport system due to a number of uncertainties in the provisions of the Public Collective Transport Act. They shall relate in particular to: 1) the problem of the responsibility of the local government unit for not obtaining the so-called operator. reasonable profit, 2) The problem of exclusive use of bus stops as so-called. operator stops, 3) the problem of how to set ticket prices on public utility lines. It is important to appreciate the legislative initiative of the Senators' Group to extend the vacathio legis of the Public Collective Transport Act to be necessary to maintain stability in this area for a year. However, this period seems to be too short. In fact, the law in this form is a radical exclusion of the most deprived passengers from many small towns from collective transport covered by reliefs, it is a monopolisation of the market for small carriers, and therefore a serious impediment to the functioning of many Polish small companies. Finally, the Act in its current form creates legal chaos for local governments, additional expenditure of a large scale, the need for additional employment. There is therefore a need for a thorough overhaul of the law or to consider remaining in the current system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u801	On 20 July 1797 the first public performance of Mazurka Dąbrowski took place in the Italian Reggio Emilia. The anthem was originally called the Song of Polish Legions in Italy. The author of the melody is still unknown, but it is based on folk mazora. The words were arranged between July 16 and 19 by Józef Wybicki in the Italian Reggio nell'Emilia. He was a well-deserved patriot, creating invaluable foundations for the formation of the Legions of the Polish Eaters of the Lombardy Republic. The text of the song was first disseminated in Mantua in February 1799 by printing in the newspaper.Dekada Legionowa, thanks to which soldiers met it, and then brought it on their lips, returning from wandering to the country, making the mazurka very popular and soon performed on all significant occasions. It was created as a protest against erase Poland from the map of Europe. The words of the Polish Legions in Italy referred to the lofty events of the history of Polish weapons and modern military leaders, in which they hoped to return to their homeland and regain independence. From the very beginning the song was accepted with applause by Legion Dąbrowski. At the beginning of 1798 it was also known in the country in all partitions. It was sung during the November Uprising (1830), January (1863), by Poles in the Great Emigration during the 1905, I and II World War Revolution. The mazurka text was translated by poets who solidarity with the fighting Polish and was known in 17 languages, among others. German, French, English, Russian, Hungarian, Croatian, Macedonian, Serbian, Slovak and Tzmudz. During the Spring of the Peoples (1848) Mazurek Dąbrowski was sung on the streets of Vienna, Berlin and Prague, where he was particularly popular. Mazurek Dąbrowski, Polish patriotic song, since 26 February 1927 the decision of the Polish Sejm became the official national anthem of the Republic of Poland. Mazurek Dąbrowski is 219 years old. It is still a living symbol of Polishness and the spirit of the nation. The anthem still remains one of the highest values valued by Poles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u802	I cordially invite you to visit scout camps, which are scattered all over Poland, as it is long and wide. Let us rejoice at the fact that there are still many young people who, either for the encouragement of their peers or their parents, or maybe have found their own trail, the trail of scouting adventure. Tonight, I want you and your listeners to think about what constitutes the magnetic power of the scouting method. After all, it is almost 100 years as scouting continues, acts, raises and engages the next generations of Poles. Summer is the habit of forest people. It is the bridesmaids and bridesmaids who gain new degrees of scouting in the forest or green fields at the camps and show new skills. Be proud, mothers and fathers, of the fact that your children are perfectly capable, show self-reliance, resourcefulness and friendship, and the ability to work together. These are characteristics that do not arise themselves, need to be shaped, nurtured and, if possible, used as often as possible in practice. So if, dear mother or father, you are going to visit your branch in the coming days, which I urge, at camp, then you must remember a few things. First of all, don't embarrass your child by being overgrown over him, wondering and fondling yourself with a word when you address a man of the forest with the words: "Son, my dear, you skinny little girl, I think they're starving you here. She runs, moves, burns a lot of energy, she's young/young, thin. Why all the weird stuff? Secondly, don't be surprised at the fact that before he goes out for a walk in the woods with you or takes her to a normal dinner in a nearby town, he'll ask his teammate's permission. This should be the case, after all, the instructors must keep the child safe, so they must also know where they are. And already the complete peak of ignorance will be the expression of outrage that there are cones in the woods and fall in the appeal square and/or fly the booze and booze, competing with the best mosquitoes. Believe me, that's how it happens in the woods, that it has its own specificity and differentness from the urban park or the well-maintained homemade flower bed. So there are cones in it, and they're very useful in scouting forest life, and mosquitoes, and nails, and farts, because that's how it is. If you wish to make a reasonable use of your visit to the camp, ask your daughter/son whether he has already been on his own watch, whether he has served as a kitchen service, what fitness he has gained, and truly appreciate it. Ask for details, do not bid with him/her that while you were at camp, it was worth it, adventure, service. Now it's her/his time, let him tell you, and you in mute delight in expressing your approval and pride of your son/daughter. If there's something bothering you and you don't know whether to go or not, then the hint is clear: go. But remember, the hero of the meeting is to be him/her, not your memories. And one more thread. On Sunday, the ZHR reunion in Krakow begins, which is an integral part of the white service of scouts and scouts at the WYD. They will be able to obtain BS through various services (order, rescue, communications, liturgical) efficiency. But the point is not only that scouting youths set a good example of a service attitude to the challenges of everyday life, but also in extraordinary events. It also bears witness to the faith and the normative system that it respects. Plus, among other things. serves its efficiency and tasks: sources of faith, dedicated to the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. By gaining it, young people reach into the depths of our history as a nation, moving towards a full understanding and experience of what is the fact of the Christian lineage of our homeland. It is therefore an environment of scouts who are fully aware of this year's celebration. The bridesmaids and bridesmaids, greetings, in a few days we will meet at the assembly inaugurating the ZHR meeting in Krakow, as well as at the ZHP convention, which will take place in Wrocław at the beginning of August.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u803	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The extensive restructuring of the Polish National Railways in recent years has become an opportunity for many people to travel the country more efficiently and more conveniently. Despite this high growth in road traffic, there is still a need for rail transport for travelers to both jobs and rest places. PKP Intercity as a rail carrier operating long-distance, hasty and express passenger services should meet the expectations of passengers, especially during the holiday period when traveling for tourist and leisure purposes is far more. Those who travel by train on long routes of relations PKP Intercity Rzeszów - Hel - Rzeszów for obvious reasons choose places in the so-called. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. On the carrier's website you can find information about the possibility of booking a train ticket for this route via the online sales system, but there are so many people willing to travel that the option of such a reservation has been suspended and the tickets in the cashiers are often sold within one hour of the opening of the booking for a given route 30 days before the departure of the train. It is worth adding here that such sales usually take place during the night. Such situations are unacceptable in the 21st century. A clear call for additional sleeping cars and an increase in the number of courses, especially during the holiday period, should be received with great difficulties in booking and lack of vacancies long before the planned departure. Without appropriate steps in this direction, a large group of passengers will be killed who will permanently switch from railway vehicles to wheeled vehicles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u804	High Seym! On 10 July 2016, Jerzy Gieysztor died, alongside professors Jerzy Przykłada and Andrzej Czachor, among the most outstanding participants of the Civic Movement for the Unimandate Election Districts, a descendant of the four-year-old Sejm, a man of great heart and merit for his homeland. Recalling the person of Jerzy Gieysztor, I would like to pay tribute to the outgoing generation of this part of Polish intelligence, which already in the early 1990s saw and diagnosed the main cause of Polish political and political problems, which is the bad electoral ordination, the so-called. proportional, in fact extremely party, which deprives Poles of political subjectivity and passive electoral law. Many of these people, because of their previous merits, could achieve a great deal in the current policy if they could only accept the system. They could come to honors, prosperity and prosperity. They chose a different path, a more difficult one, a path against the current, requiring sacrifice and sacrifice. They chose political isolation and often environmental and social isolation, absence in public life and media despite their deep commitment to the Republic. They chose active patriotism, but not effective and flashy, requiring commitment, working at the ground, quiet, often unnoticed effort for the country. For their motto they chose two verses of Marian Hemar's poem, which best describe the attitude of this generation: None of us made deals with the Homeland. No one's got a pact tied to her convent, If he lives, if he dies, Whether he sees it in the crowd or remembers it. I'm sorry, She didn't promise to save her bitterness, Or that he will feed the sweet bread, Or that tears or merit will count And the scream will hear under the open sky. High Sejm, behind Prof. Tomasz Kaźmierski, President of the Association JOW im. Prof. Jerzy Przystawy, I will mention the names of those who have left within more than 20 years of the movement: Michał Falzmann, Alła Klement-Laskowska, Stanisław Helski, Alina Kozioł-Starczewska-Byrska, Dr. Wojciech Lenkow, ed. Maciej Łukasiewicz, dr Wisła Surażska, gen. Tadeusz Jauer, Colonel Józef Teliga, gen. Antoni Heda Maciej Rybinski, red. Jerzy Iranek-Osmecki, Prof. Edward Klimczak, Janusz Cykowski, Prof. Jerzy Przystawa, Adam Plesnar, Mariusz Wiś, Marian Dzięcioł and the last of them Jerzy Gieysztor. Hello their memory!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-sejm-23-3.u805	I hereby order the adjournment of the sitting until 22 July 2016 at the latest. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 20]]
