ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u1	I open the 13th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Rafał Ambrozik to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. High Senate! I would like to inform you that on 13 October 2015, the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate of the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2014. This document is contained in print No 1105 VIII of the term of office. On 15 October 2015, the Senate Marshal sent this document to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took note of the document at its meeting on 9 December 2015 and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration at its meeting on 16 March 2016. The committees have informed the Senate marshal. In the absence of objections... It's a mistake at all. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[The voice from the hall: No, no... yes, because it was... they're good...]] Okay? Okay, then. It's just that we don't know why the numbers are wrong... All right. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the ninth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 10th Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the second point of the draft agenda be considered, although the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws has been submitted at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda with the following items: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on Criminal Enforcement and consider it as the first item of the agenda; the Law amending the Law of the Code of Criminal Procedure and certain other laws and consider it as a point on the second agenda; the Act amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act and the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the banks associating them and considering it as a point on the fifth agenda, after the Investment Funds Act; the Law amending the Forests Act and the Nature Conservation Act and consider it as point six; second reading of the draft resolution on the 80th anniversary of the first deportation of the Polish population to Kazakhstan and consider it as item 10 of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as the last item on the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. [[Objection!]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, my objection concerns Mr. Marshal's proposal for changes to print 104, i.e. the amendment of the Law of the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws. You proposed to the marshal that this point should be considered during this Senate meeting, and that is already in point two. It is worth noting that only last night High Commissions Legislative and human rights and the rule of law They leaned over this project. There's no denying that this is a very important project. Someone can say that every project is important. But the importance of this issue or of this draft law is underlined by the fact that six years have been worked on this project, and this has been done in an extraordinary codification committee. This project came into force, this bill It's not the law that changes, it's the law that's gonna change that law, and it's actually gonna change it. In July last year. So you can say that it only applies for 6, 7 months. The proposal contained in print 104 completely changes the axiology of the existing law, among others. by the fact that, unlike the previous law, it is intended to eliminate the adversarial process. But also during the work of these 2 committees, which I mentioned at the beginning, on the one hand and on the other hand, there were amendments suggesting that this ad hoc change, sudden and I do not know what was dictated, completely reverses it. It is therefore appropriate, Mr. Marshal, that, especially because of your authority, work on this committee should take place at least at the next Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u3	But the committee meeting has already been held. [[The second committee meeting has already been held, yes.]] Senator, what committee are you talking about? Because I don't understand. [[Meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee.]] This meeting was held. [[Last night...]] Yeah, okay... [[...was done.]] Okay, I get it. Thank you very much. Now, Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As at the meeting of the Convention on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I object to placing an amendment to the Penal Code and the Enforcement Penal Code on the agenda, with a justification very similar to that which you just presented to Senator Rulewski. The point is that issues relating to changes in codes should be dealt with in a timely manner. This is why a separate codification committee is set up in the Lower House, so that there is a body in the Ministry of Justice to ensure that such submissions are calmly processed and that these cases are not taken suddenly. In the evening the committee meeting, and immediately in the morning the bill is introduced as one of the first points, or actually as the first point. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not allow us to take a fair view of all the provisions contained in the Act. I therefore object to the inclusion of the law already on this agenda. It is true that on April 15th this law is due to enter into force, but the Senate has the power to change this term, because nothing is pressing us, not rushing us, so that it must be done not only overnight, but almost from hour to hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u5	Thank you very much. Senator, you're welcome. [[Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I'm on the same case. I think...]] But, Senator, two-point votes already... Does your statement concern the first and second points I want to introduce, or the third, the fourth, the fifth or the sixth? [[I would like to comment on the amendments to the Penal Code...]] But it's not now. [[But I have an extra...]] Now it's not... No, no. [[But two people spoke, so why can't I?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's because it's the rules, Senator. Thank you very much. [[I would like to draw attention to the decision of the Venice Commission.]] Senator, thank you very much... About what, Senator? Because... [[In the same case as Senator Augustine and the previous senator.]] No, thank you very much. There's already an objection. Now we're going to vote, Senator. [[You can talk to each other in your cockroaches.]] We're not gonna open a discussion on this. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: But I don't understand...]] No, I mean... I understand. If you don't understand what the senator said... I think I understand. Thank you very much. Are there any other votes on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. In the event of your objection, in the order of your application, first of all, your request... [[In this meeting...]] First, we will vote on Senator Rulewski's motion. I would like to remind you: the law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and certain other laws and consider it as point two. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of my proposal to put this item on the agenda? [[Voice from the room: But this is...]] My conclusion. Who's in favor? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 65 senators voted, 38 were in favour, 27 against. [[Voting No 1]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the point: the Law amending the Law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and certain other laws will be considered as the second item on the agenda. We proceed to the vote on my proposal to introduce as the first point of the Law amending the Criminal Code and the Law of the Criminal Code implementing it. and consider this item as the first item on the agenda. Who's in favour of introducing this point? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 43 were in favour, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on Criminal Enforcement will be considered at this meeting as the first item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u6	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask because we have a meeting at 6:00... [[But it's not...]] ...will there be a break...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u7	Mr. Senator, I asked who of your senators would like to speak on the matter of order. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's not a question of order. [[In a way, it's a matter of order.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, that's not a question of order. I'll repeat the question. Would any of your senators like to speak on this order? Thank you very much. [[Order has to be.]] I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 13th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform the senators that, in the case of the adoption by the Sejm at the current meeting of the Act amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, the Act on Special Solutions related to the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016, the Act amending the Act amending the Law on Civil Procedure and some other laws, the Act amending the Law I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We will conclude today at 6:00 p.m. We will resume tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on Criminal Code of Enforcement. The text of the Act is contained in print 105 and the report of the committee In print No 105 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with the criminal code of executive. This amendment to the implementing criminal code concerns the issue of electronic supervision as a form of execution of a prison sentence. The need for these changes, or indeed the restoration of the former state, is due to the fact that, following the changes made in 2015, there has been a significant decrease in the number of prison sentences in this system. Of the more than 5 000 previously executed in this system of prison sentences, this number has fallen to dozens in the current year. It must be recalled that it is a system of very effective and cheap penalties, because the execution of prison sentences in this system, using the latest technical achievements, costs on average over 300 PLN per month, while the execution of prison sentences in a closed prison costs ten times more, because this amount exceeds 3 thousand PLN per month. This is why we are returning to previous solutions that have been in force since 2007, when a special law introduced an electronic surveillance system as a form of execution of a prison sentence. I would also remind you that this applies only to persons who have been sentenced to imprisonment for up to one year. These are crimes, cases of which social harm is not significant, since such a relatively low level of punishment has been imposed. As I recall, we agreed unanimously that there is a need for this change. There were, of course, discussions pro futuro, i.e. whether some adjustments would possibly need to be made in the future, especially with regard to the system of so-called mixed penalty, in which the sentence of imprisonment and the penalty of the restriction of liberty are imposed. Sometimes there are situations where prison sentences are imposed for up to 6 months, even for offences at a relatively high level, for example. Up to 12 years of imprisonment... I told you yesterday, he goes here for example. to drive a vehicle in an intoxicated state and cause a disaster. At that time, it is possible to apply a combined penalty of up to 12 years, i.e. a sentence of imprisonment of up to 6 months, and a sentence of limitation of liberty, which is known to be a maximum of up to 2 years. During the discussion, however, we came to the conclusion that this would require longer consideration. Pro futuro would possibly be deliberate, but at the moment, in order to get out of that impasse in which the Prison Service found itself, when, as I said, there was a sharp drop in the number of penalties carried out in this system... Like I said, this system doesn't only have its value, Primo, that it's effective, secundo, ten times cheaper than executing punishment in a normal system. Tertio about this, too. As a result, several thousand places may be released and persons may be put there to execute a prison sentence. And let me remind you that right now we have over 70,000 sentences of imprisonment that have not been executed. On the one hand, some convicts do not report for punishment, and on the other hand, there are a large number of convicts who, although they apply for punishment, cannot be placed in prisons, because there is simply no place there. These places can be released by the introduction of this electronic surveillance system. That's the way it is. I believe that this law deserves to be adopted. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have this question: would it be possible under Polish conditions something like what a Mr. Breivik does in Norway? Namely, he complains about the penitentiary. He is, as you know, the killer of 77 people, the perpetrator of a dramatic event. And he complains that he hasn't enough butter and that he's isolated in an establishment where he's serving 21 years of imprisonment, and he can't study. And this case is seriously considered, in accordance with procedures, etc. in force in Norway. So I have a question: would such cases be possible under Polish legal conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u11	Mr. Senator, you're welcome. But I'm sure that wasn't the subject of the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u12	It's running out a little bit... But to satisfy my curiosity, I can say that anyone can complain. And since such a complaint would not have had a chance of success, that would be a zero chance of success, that is another matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u13	Thank you very much. Please, the question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u14	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr President, I would like to ask whether the committee has raised objections to the procedure for working in the Senate on this bill. And did the Senate committee ever wonder... In view of the particular nature of the committee you are running, you probably wondered at the hearing on the verdict... I apologise for the opinion of the Venice Commission, which has appeared. I don't know if the senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll tell you what I'm talking about. I do not know whether the senators have read this opinion, but the Venice Commission has very much questioned the legislative process in Parliament, and has explicitly questioned the Parliament and the Senate legislation. It was said that we didn't have time to prepare, that there wasn't enough time, that everything was in a hurry, etc. etc. Vacatio legis et cetera... And I'd like to ask... [[Senator, I'm asking you a question about the matter of the bill we're debating.]] I've already asked two questions. Did the committee deal with, in this respect... Because I expect the Senate to respect opinions such as the opinion of the Venice Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u15	Senator, first of all... [[Please, Senator.]] ...the two matteres mentioned are quite different and do not have a common plane. What else is the opinion of the Venice Commission on systemic issues such as issues relating to the Constitutional Tribunal and other extra-corporal issues. After all, we are only talking about the regulation of the procedure in the implementing criminal code. Secondly, no one had any objections to the procedure for implementing the bill in question in the Sejm as well as in the Senate. Nobody questioned anything. And thirdly, the issue is not that measure at all and so important that it restricts anyone's rights. It is a very humane form of punishment, which, unlike being placed in a penitentiary, where a person is completely isolated, gives the possibility of living in his own family environment, a working environment. It's just a fairly normal way of living. With certain limitations, of course, so that the punishment may be distressing. But mostly it meets its goals by being forced into a certain self-discipline, to develop its own personality and to create its own life in such a way as to take responsibility for itself, and not to be just an object of influence, as most often, predominantly, takes place in a penitentiary, where the possibilities of self-discipline and self-creation, and thus setting certain requirements for the condemned, I would say, more creative, are somewhat on the second plane. It is known that then life is organized by a penal facility, while here this man must organize his own life. Of course, this is done in agreement with the professional curators, the court and under the supervision of the penitentiary services. I must say that yesterday, a group of senators from the Human Rights Committee, thanks to the general here, paid a visit to the place where we saw the use of these electronic surveillance measures. And I have to say that I was very impressed by the fact that today's technology allows us to introduce certain solutions that are, as I say, very humanitarian, very modern and ensuring the effectiveness of the punishment, because the effectiveness is probably 97%. So only 3% happens that someone doesn't rehabilitate, somehow makes a breach here, I don't know, can destroy a camera like that or leave the place of execution of this punishment at all. Well, it's a legal and technical solution that makes a very impressive impression, and I sign under it with both hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u16	Thank you, Senator. You're asking Senator Piotr Zientarski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u17	Mr. Senator, were there discussions at the committee's meeting on the need to introduce, so to speak, further amendments to both the Penal Code and the Code... and, above all, the Penal Code on the catalogue of penalties, namely the introduction of an spontaneous sentence of imprisonment under electronic supervision?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u18	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u19	There was a discussion whether it would be worth choosing to introduce even a higher threshold, i.e. not 1 year, but e.g. on convictions for up to 2 years. It must be said that, at the moment, for more than 82 thousand executioners, 40,000 are people who have been sentenced to imprisonment for up to 2 years. These are the most common cases of so-called alimentaries, i.e. those who do not pay alimony or any traffic accidents; they are also some other punishments, because often this imprisonment of up to 2 years is a substitute for not paying a fine or failing to comply with a sentence of limitation of liberty. And it would be worth considering pro futuro, whether not to include this system of electronic supervision also of people who have a sentence of imprisonment not up to a year, but up to 2 years. That's one thing. The second point is the one I was talking about. The point is whether it would be useful to consider the issue of the article at some time. 37b of the Penal Code, which introduced this system of mixed penalties, namely imprisonment and restrictions on liberty. That, by the way, in my opinion, is a little bit of a kuriozum, but since it works, it would have to be regulated so that there were no reservations that I was talking about yesterday in the electronic surveillance system as well. Part of the doctrine points out that this may sometimes lead to an assessment that the perpetrators are escaping justice. Because it may be that someone who causes a serious communication accident will lead to a disaster, driving a vehicle in a state of drunkenness, in which case it is a threat of punishment up to 12 years imprisonment, but will be sentenced to 6 months imprisonment. Well, if you move on to this electronic surveillance system, it's practically not gonna be deprived of freedom at all. This may sometimes be perceived, especially by the families of victims who died in such a catastrophe, as some kind of injustice, or even indulgence, toward the perpetrator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u20	Thank you, Senator. Any of you... Senator Mammoths, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator said that at the moment there are 80,000 prisoners in prison, half of which are those with a sentence of imprisonment of up to 2 years. However, I would also like you to tell me how many you expect to be punished in prison. It's a group too, so to speak, 50-50. The fishing for those convicted who do not carry out a penalty is also the case for a sentence of up to 2 years imprisonment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u22	Well, I mentioned that there's a crowd of people waiting for them. There's over 70,000 of them. Except that some of these people simply evade or do not report for imprisonment, but there are also many such people who apply for punishment, but are not placed in prisons for such a prosaic reason that they lack seats. Because it is important to remember that there are certain standards in terms of concentration in a cell, there are minimum standards set at a pan-European level regarding the fact that one prisoner should have a specific area. As I recall, a minimum of 3 m2 per prisoner. And it's different in different countries, and I think the Greeks are best treated. From what I remember, in Greek prisons prisoners are supposed to have 10 m2.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u23	Thank you, Senator. The question is Senator Richard Majer... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask for silence in the Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, because the same rumbling which is spreading here prevents the Senator from answering your questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u24	Mr. Senator, I would like to refer to the statements of my previous speakers who have paid attention to the pace of the changes being made. If the change that came into force in 2015 had been forged for six years, then maybe we Should we wait a few years to see how it works? Was the speed of this change discussed at the committee meeting, and what were the arguments that it should be done right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u25	As I said earlier, the need to make this change at a rather rapid pace is due to the fact that, as a result of the unfortunate change that took place in 2015, the number of penalties carried out in this system has radically decreased From a few thousand to several hundred, and in the past months or perhaps in the last month there have been only a few dozen cases, so that it is a huge drop. And from the information that General Niemojewski here gave us... [[Naszyowski.]] ...shows that for the state budget it is a savings of about 20 million PLN per year... [[12.5 a month.]] Well, never mind the figures, with the statistics, ladies and gentlemen, it's like in this joke that it's true, it's not true, and at the end of the statistics. That is why I would not cling to statistics, in any case these are, please, amounts exceeding 10 million PLN. [[Yes, sir.]] But it's not even about this economic aspect, it's about the most humane aspect, which I was talking about, that the execution of punishment in this system leaves a man in the bosom of the family and in the workplace, so that it is a very humane way of executing punishment and very effective, because it leads to a certain self-discipline of the condemned and even self-creation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u26	Thank you, Senator. Does anyone else want to ask the Senator rapporteur a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Marcin Warchoł, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question to the Minister? No... [[Excuse me.]] [[There is, there is a question!]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm a little...]] I'm sorry. [[But it's hard not to notice me.]] I'm sorry. Senator Rulewski would like to ask you a question. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u27	Minister, as a supporter of this legislative solution, I must take into account votes other than government votes, including the vote of the President of the Supreme Court. In its opinion to this draft, he expressed his reservations with a certain conclusion. He expressed such reservations that the likely loss of potential customers of this system stems, firstly, from the adoption of the principle of consensus in the current solutions of the Penal Code and the Enforcement Penal Code, as the President said, from such, say, a hesitation during the period of introducing new legal solutions, especially in regional courts. What you have confirmed, by the way. But the President of the Supreme Court thus says in his opinion that this solution is premature and that it is still necessary to verify precisely the reasons for this saddle. How would you like to comment, Minister, on this opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u28	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u29	Thank you very much. As far as consensus is concerned, this will be mentioned in the second point. In principle, amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure do not affect the substance of consensusalism. With some limitation, we introduce this into the article. 387 Code of Criminal Procedure, with voluntary punishment This is a limitation on the sentence of 15 years imprisonment, which limits the possibility of voluntary punishment in respect of accused persons for all crimes. So that here I do not see any danger and inconsistencies between efficiency and issues of consensus. And as for the inheritance, here the decline of this kind of measures is visible in numbers and here... I don't know on what basis the first president draws his argument, I'm just going to point out numbers today. The total number of persons covered by the SDE system who are sentenced to a restriction of freedom, i.e. 55 persons, and to a sentence of imprisonment 2 000 618 persons. So there's no danger here. But it's worth considering. I'm here to give you a heads-up on the senator's possible next question... I don't know if the senator's gonna want to report what we just talked about. And it's a sentence of imprisonment of up to two years, convicted of involuntary acts. To be honest, at first glance, Mr. Senator's proposal is very attractive and worth considering. At the moment, we are working on comprehensive amendments to penalties in the Penal Code in order to make them more flexible, ranging from weekly penalties to penalties such as 20 years' punishment, 30 years' punishment. Paradoxically, there are judgments, judgments of courts, where judges sentence even for 20 years. What does that tell you? With the natural desire of man to bring justice and the lack of the finest resources in the Penal Code. We talked about the weekly penalty or weekend penalty about about 10 years ago. At the time, our project assumed the introduction of weekend punishments, and I stress this. Now we will also make such proposals, but in a slightly different form. It's about weekly penalties. Therefore, the extension of the SDE to prison sentences of up to 2 years, pronounced for acts of involuntary conduct, here I am calling for an interview with the senator just now. It's right and right in my mind. But I'd like a moment of patience. We will analyse this at the stage of the work on the Penal Code. But those threats that the senator mentioned here, as I say, I don't see them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u30	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u31	Minister, actually continuing this earlier question and referring to the answer... I asked the Minister at the committee meeting about some issues, including: on the question of a possible spontaneous imprisonment in the form of electronic surveillance. But other issues were also raised. And you answered as you did today, consistently, you shared these arguments and said you were already working on it and so on. and that these proposals are indeed right. I'm saying it in general. Wouldn't it be better, Minister, given that we are dealing with a revision of the penal code, a system of penalties... This involves not only printing criminal codes, which are quite large in volume, but also students learn criminal law, etc., etc... Wouldn't it be better to wait these 2, 3 months because I hear that the work is prepared And really solve the problem comprehensively? I understand. I've been talking about it. That there is really a need, there is a decline and you react immediately, and this is a kind of prosthesis or a step in the right direction... But wouldn't it be better to do this comprehensively, wait a few months and prepare part of the general criminal code after consulting her to... But the general part of the criminal code is something that should be permanent. That's what I think, and that's why it's a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u32	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u33	Mr. Senator, High Izbo, first line. As far as the current changes are concerned, they are, as we have pointed out many times, caused by the collapse of our electronic surveillance system, and this is, as it were, a lifeline. That's why we can't wait. There's a general in the courtroom who we've been working with since the first day of our office and who's appointed a team of analysts, experts, and we've taken action to take care of this situation as soon as possible. As for the changes to the penal code, the senator mentioned the general section... There is a codification committee set up at the moment, the composition of the codification committee is being established and we do not want to work under pressure of time, hastily, it requires a thorough analysis, preparation. This is not a matter for a month, even for two months, especially the general part, which is a foundation of the criminal law system, which is why any hasty changes in this area at the moment would be unreasonable. As I say, even the senator's proposal Involuntary act until two years... Imagine the situation of thoughtless acts. Beating with fatal outcome; beating with intent, killing with involuntary effect. And now we have to think about, as I say, among the experts we're talking to right now. Soon, you will soon know the composition of the Committee on the Codification of Criminal Law, in which we will consider these very things. So that I invite you to debate, Senator, I invite you to make proposals, to argue, to uphold this argument... We're open to cooperation, but not right now. It's a lifeline, it requires quick action. The work, as I say, will continue soon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u34	Thank you, Minister. Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Knock.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like us to start by making a distinction in our discussion on these issues, namely that we should separate the debate on the first point, on the electronic surveillance system, from the debate on the second point, which will concern a comprehensive reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure, because the atmosphere at yesterday's committee meetings on supervision, and completely different during the debate on the second point, was different. I am speaking mainly because I would like to stress that, when it comes to matters of electronic surveillance, there was practically unanimity. There were no objections. I am now slightly responding to Senator Zdrojewska about how we are debating at what rate This law is created. Because there is widespread awareness that we react in extraordinary mode, we resuscitate this system and we need to act really quickly. Some solutions were raised by the guests at the committee meeting, the curators, who had ideas on how to develop this system, improve it, and the Minister's position was that it was as much a topic for discussion as possible in the future. We received such a blessing yesterday that, thanks to the general's hospitality, we were representatives of the Legislative Commission and the Rule of Law Committee at the centre of the monitoring of the convicted. We could see for ourselves how it all works, how everything is equipped, prepared. I really do. I think I'll be the representative of most senators, if I say so, we were very impressed with this whole tooling. So it is regrettable to see that a system that is, which has a potential that could work to a much greater extent, is not being used. Its operation at this point for the reasons already mentioned was frozen, brought to an absolute minimum. We've seen how it works, we've seen the whole team monitor... This is all very modern, very professional, there is great service, there are comprehensively educated people, providing not only assistance directly related to surveillance activities, but also psychological support at various times of crisis. The general was talking about a very traumatic experience when one of the operators rescued a convicted suicide attempt, a very advanced one. Therefore, I personally, as a lawyer, as a senator, really feel that in this respect we are undoubtedly moving towards modern criminal law, modern methods of combating crime, execution of punishment. That's why I'm signing off on these solutions with both hands. I particularly congratulate the general because I know this is your child. I also congratulate and support the Ministry in its efforts to ensure that this system functions as best as possible and as modern as possible. As far as point two is concerned, surely the temperature of the dispute is slightly different, but this debate is ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Pęk, my esteemed previous speaker, noted that there was support for the project of this initiative. The first reason for this is in this room: so-called. The opposition on this issue is responsible, and any good government action will support, in particular in improving citizens' rights and security. I think there's a more general answer, which I have to put forward, that this support, not only of the opposition, not only of the rulers, but of the public, is connected with the fact that this is the law that technology has invaded, and this is a modern technique. It was General Naszyowski who brought it closer to us with determination, which already shows that these solutions are worth leaning on. He showed us yesterday that with the forces of about 80 people he created the largest prison Who knows if there are 15 000 people in Central Europe? There were 5.5,000 people under this watch when the committee we belonged to was doing this, but recently it is actually decreasing. Other data are data from economics: decrease from PLN 3.5 thousand, as is the case with the traditional, classic, medieval formula of placing prisoners for prison purposes and bunks, compared to PLN 350 based on electronic apology, I do not want to insult The keys. That's the way it is for me, it's always gonna be the keys, I'm sorry. I think this modernity is getting even bigger in other applications that I've been talking about here. She creates space, fills a space that can't fill a prison cell, which is a zero-single solution, because you're either a completely incapacitated person, or you're a free man. It creates a space of compromise, allows to fulfil not only repressive functions, but also rehabilitation functions. Here, for example, it is asked to refer to the issue of excessive densities in prisons of those refusing to pay maintenance payments. It is a phenomenon in Poland and has so far been unsolved. There is a chance to reduce this problem through this system, by combining work and family care, maintaining relations with the family and providing income. Who knows if that's an even greater advantage? Another advantage In civil law, this is a close-up procedure that allows people who have been affected by violence or other forms of mobbing to apply these modern solutions. I'm not gonna dwell on it anymore. Almost everyone uses, for example. with cells and know what a cell can be, what benefits it can bring in everyday life. That is why our country should really bet on it. And the last number, although I don't want to empathize with numbers. Well, another problem is that the courts have sentenced prison sentences, in this case restrictions on liberty, but they could not be executed. That number is about 70,000, that's the line, so to speak, waiting for the prison cell. Undoubtedly, the rule of law in Poland suffers because the work of the courts has gone into ruins, and criminals benefit from a certain bonus or relief. The Minister has already announced our conversation and it's been very good. I believe that when it comes to this system, we need to think far-reaching today and enter those areas where the prison cell is unable to solve. I am thinking of involuntary crimes, i.e. those that sometimes arise in the blink of an eye, unforeseen, unintended, even resulting simply from weaker concentration or reflexes, if we are talking about a road code, or ignorance of certain regulations, or even imperfections of medical or nursing art. These crimes are a lot, and unfortunately there will be a lot, because it is civilization, and mobile, and dynamic that you cannot make a mistake. It is difficult, and I have experience in this field, that these people should be together, under the same conditions as professional criminals, professionals, among whom another number is imposed. 80% They're re-criminals. It is difficult for them to reside in such conditions and in such company, in the company of those who engage in a professional crime. That is why my amendment seeks not to wait for another hand, so to speak, concerning this law, but to extend the SDE system to persons sentenced to no more than two years in prison, but to involuntary crimes. Of course, the Minister is also a bit right when he says it needs to be thoroughly checked. He also says there might be a homicide, someone could get killed in a fight, and then it's involuntary. Yeah, but it's the court that's gonna decide whether it was a deliberate crime, committed with intent, or just some hooligany thing, and it's become a tragedy because there's a fatal victim. Every adult should care that he may be upset, drama. That is why I, in memory of the government, propose this amendment. Another thing. This law states that the party requesting the use of the SDE system is himself convicted I remind you that this is a prison year's sentence. A criminal establishment, a convicted defender or a professional curator. I think it's kind of official. After all, the family is most interested, so the family should also have the right to apply for the launch of the SDE system. After all, this family is waiting for their mother or father to return. The latter less often awaits relief from family responsibilities, waiting for earnings. That doesn't have to be explained. Such a hand which is of vital importance and provides an opportunity to give this social sense can provide social assistance that is best placed to understand how well this system can serve the well-being of the condemned as well as its surroundings, as well as other social organisations. I'd say it's a practice around the world, Minister. There is often a religious community in this case, in which this condemned one acts, some authority from this community, and it is he who assumes responsibility for the functioning of... And one last thing. This system is working perfectly, which shows that probably only 6% of the 50 000 convicted have violated this semi-free regime. Maybe we can expand the range of stakeholders that could apply for the introduction of the SDE system and thus support this system of social support. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u38	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking about prisons just after such an experienced guesthouse of various prison facilities as Senator Rulewski is a big challenge even for a lawyer. I promise I'll talk a lot less because I don't have that much experience. I am very, very happy that there is a bill that I welcome with joy and which I can support in all its lengths. I must say, I can actually sign every word Senator Pop said earlier. With this pride, I would like to add that we are following the best in Europe. We move away from such a very oppressive system of punishment and move towards smart, cheap solutions that strengthen the rehabilitation of people who, sometimes very often, accidentally enter into a collision with the justice system. Theirs must, of course, be punished, but the punishment of absolute imprisonment often affects them the opposite of what is assumed. The only regret is that we have not yet succeeded in what the Minister said, but also what General Nasikowski has repeatedly told us during his visit. As I understand it, the complexity of the matter is that you have not been able to include this system of spontaneous penalties. As I understand it, the intention is even to raise to two years. And again, I can only welcome it with joy, because this is a good way towards less oppressive thinking about the justice system. And maybe this debate... There is no Senator Jackowski speaking at the beginning, outraged by the fact that the convicts may be too well. Well, maybe this discussion will also convince Senator Jackowski that the sentence doesn't necessarily have to end up in the quarry. I would very much like to be proud that we are guided by the best European standards, that we are going once again towards non-restraint thinking about the justice system... And here again I will refer to Senator Pęk's statement, who said that in a moment we will proceed much more. controversial project. So I would like to see, as far as we share here, in this Chamber, this line of thinking... I would like the senators, when we discuss the next item, to say the same, to take the pride we feel in discussing the current point. So that you can think about all of this, too, when we argue, maybe a little bit harder, about the next point. I would just like to say that, as it turns out, it is important to listen more deeply to the voices of people who have to say something about the justice system that results from their experience and not from certain political ideas. Because it turns out that you can make a mistake, even with noble ideas and wanting to develop the system that we are talking about today and which we are expanding today. Well, that's what happened. Unfortunately, it was the result... Maybe it wasn't so much the result of the error as the court practice, as it turned out, went in such a direction that there was a collapse. I am very pleased that today we are in a position to correct this issue. This is really a very good direction. And I would very much like to ask you to work on this project as soon as possible. And I'm holding the minister and the general's word that you will work hard on him, that this will be a priority. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u40	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! General! High Izbo! I did not vote in favour of the bill discussed here, I was one of several senators at the committee meeting who abstained. But not because I'm against this bill. I undoubtedly share most of the arguments put forward by my colleague, Senator Pociej, that the idea... that the introduction of an electronic system into a system of penalties, penalties, safeguards... A restraining order is a very important, effective measure or a kind of punishment that should be used absolutely. When in this room 2 terms or even 3 terms back was first introduced the way of electronic surveillance, I thought it was treated too narrowly, because there were recommended penalties for up to 6 months imprisonment. As a practice, I have pointed out that such penalties in practice are actually very rare. And that turned out to be true. After verification, the rules have been amended and this has been extended to penalties up to a year. They're not that common either. This should be increased in some way, although of course it should not concern the most serious crimes. Here's a full consent. We believe that this matter of amending the criminal code... Whatever it is, we also touch a change in the general criminal code, because we eliminate, in my opinion, the very important punishment, that is, the form of the penalty for restricting the freedom that we have introduced. Electronic surveillance has so far been introduced by the September 2013 Act, which entered into force on 1 July last year, and was intended to deal with penalties for the restriction of freedom. However, it turns out that it is with great regret that the courts do not apply this punishment. For me, this is an incomprehensible situation. Therefore, the system is, so to speak, untapped, and yet the operation of this system itself costs. I am no longer talking about the fact that this system is actually, in general, important and plays a very important role in the execution of the penalty. And now we return to the concept of imprisonment, which will be decided by the Penitentiary Court, a district court; it is a prison sentence executed in the form of electronic surveillance rather than as an spontaneous punishment in the catalogue of punishments. Because there is a sentence of imprisonment, there is a penalty of 25 years, there is a penalty of life imprisonment, and there are separate penalties, so there could also be an automatic penalty of electronic supervision. And you wouldn't have to hire another instance... After all, there is a court of meriti which decides, and then a court of penitentiary, a district court which decides whether or not a person deserves to be punished in such a system. And I'm against it because we're doing... Well, I hear the password of the rescue wheel and that there's a need, but we're creating some kind of mess. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not even talking about the technical aspect of printing codes anymore. See: here we are introducing amendments to the Criminal Code and the Enforcement Criminal Code, and in a moment there will be amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, and there are amendments to the Criminal Code, for example. concerning an increase in the penalty in the special part for false testimony. I therefore ask: why this is not done in this amendment, in the amendment concerning criminal law, and the code of criminal proceedings, formally another branch of the law, is separately... Everything I say, mixed up, there's no... As we can hear, there's not even a codification committee. And things are serious. And that's the only reason I'm having second thoughts. The Minister who referred to the matter here said that many of the doubts we raised at the committee's meeting, he shares and that we are actually working that we are getting close... Full satisfaction would be if we had a relatively short period of time for this, because such a change does not really require a very long vacathio legis, such as should be in the case of k.p.k. Let us remind you that in the case of k.p.k. They were almost two years old. The whole training system, etc., etc. But that's in a minute. So that I miss such a comprehensive solution. I understand the need, but I think that even if this work were somehow condensed, if there were opinions and a judge's environment, and a codification committee, and if we were to sort out this system more comprehensively, it would be a much better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u42	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to hear your voice, sir. Senator, it's breaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate, I would like to highlight one point, referring to what Senator Pociej was talking about in turn about what Senator Jackowski was talking about. Namely, there is a stereotype or myth about the fact that the punishment of supervision is a minor punishment. Contrary to appearances, she can often be a more acquitted punishment than a prison sentence, especially in the Polish penitentiary system. Yesterday, the general was talking about the fact that even situations like this happen, that the convict wants him to be replaced with probation for imprisonment, because he's more comfortable sitting in jail and doing nothing. So that the penalty of supervision, as the current system allows, can be a penalty that actually has a socialization dimension. In addition, it allows control of the convicted person in a very broad aspect With surveillance, monitoring, you can obtain a great deal of information about the conduct of the convicted person, about his contacts, his relationships, his actions, his actions. As a result, prevention can also be prevented, and many acts can be thwarted. And I think we should talk about it here so that these stereotypes are overthrown. And as to what Senator Zientarski was talking about, I would say that each of us would like to look forward to the moment when these changes in various areas of the legal system, and especially in criminal law, will not be so extensive, so frequent, so violent. Well, unfortunately, we've lived to see that life dynamics, crime dynamics, social changes, political changes, also at European level, are so violent that we can probably forget about the time when some codification committee was gathering, dealt with things from A to Z and was calm for 20 years. I studied law in the second half of the 1990s, and it was at that time that all the penal codes were changed, and there was a big amendment. And now, after a dozen years, we see that a major reform is needed again. Therefore, I can only express my hope that how our majority will make these most necessary changes After all, in the case of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the Police were dealing with legal acts still with the previous political system This will already be a basis for a modern, coherent criminal policy system, and then there will be no need for such a rapid change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more requests for discussion. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item two of the agenda: the law on amending the Law of. Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print 104 and the report of the committee In print No 104 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! Minister! General! High Izbo! The proposed draft, the law adopted by the Sejm, concerns a thorough revision of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, notably by bringing back those rules of procedure which were in force before the amendment of the 2013 Act, which entered into force in July 2015, when the system of adversarial proceedings was introduced into the criminal procedure The principle of adversarial and inquisition proceedings, which consists in the fact that criminal proceedings are not, as in the adversarial procedure, a fight between the two parties, and that the judge is merely the one who puts the arguments of the two parties at stake and ultimately decides in his judgment what decision is to be taken, only gives the judge the right to have evidence, i.e. to conduct evidence of his own motion in a situation where he considers it appropriate. The current situation, caused by the "I remind you" The text of the article. 167, the fact is that the judge is in principle not allowed to carry out evidence on his own initiative, unless in particularly justified cases. Well, it's a regulation that kind of incapacitated the judge and made him, as I say, just an arbitrageist who practically doesn't have the ability to reach objective material truth. So this material truth has basically replaced some kind of truth... well, it's called different things: and that's coherent. That is, that the court is to establish certain factual findings which would not be contrary to the evidence gathered, but do not have to come to the heart of the case... That is why these changes have now been introduced and restored to the evidence of this initiative by the judge. Many other important changes have also been made, particularly with regard to the right of defence. The article was abolished. 80a, which was also introduced by the 2013 Act, which was called the setting up of a public defender at the request of the accused, because the regulation provided that the defendant, who does not have a defender by choice, could demand the setting up of a public defender for him, without any conditions laid down here that such a person making the application would have to fulfil. I will then move on to the proposals which I myself put forward on the subject of the article. 80a, whether to actually eliminate it at all, or possibly change its content. To be honest, the definitive liquidation raises some doubts about whether the standard of the article is met. 6th European Convention on Human Rights. Let me remind you, Art. 6 the European Convention provides that the accused, who does not have sufficient resources for the involvement of the defender, should have an appointed defender of his own motion if the good of justice so requires. I therefore believe that, in order to be in line with this standard, we should establish an equivalent regulation here, and I have made such a proposal in the framework of the amendment. The next changes, which are worth emphasising, which concern the evidence itself, are the proposal to amend the article. 168a, which led to the greatest controversy, in view of the wording that proof cannot be considered inadmissible solely on the grounds that it was obtained in breach of the provisions of the procedure or by means of a prohibited act referred to in Article. 1 §1 of the Criminal Code And let me remind you that this article talks about what constitutes a crime, which is the definition of a crime. Unless the evidence has been obtained in connection with the performance of public service duties by an official as a result of: murder, intentional injury to health or deprivation of liberty. Well, it's generally related to concepts in criminal law that can be divided into two fundamental groups. Namely, the Anglo-Saxon system adopts the concept of prohibition of evidence from so-called. the fruit of the poisoned tree, and this is one concept, and the other concept assumes that everything can be evidence. Of course, most of the time, there are intermediate solutions in the world, which sort of agree with these two concepts. The concept of banning the use of the fruit of a poisoned tree is that it cannot be evidence of what has been obtained in violation of the law. So, let's say that if evidence was obtained from the recording or evidence forced by the use of e.g. violence, then it cannot be treated as evidence and therefore cannot be the basis of the facts of the court. And the second, as I say, is the extreme concept that says that everything can be evidence in the case, because it illustrates whether or not a certain event has occurred, and that can therefore be the basis of actual findings. So far, it's an art. 168a was actually about accepting the construction of a ban on the probative use of the fruit of a poisoned tree, for it contained the wording that it could not be proof of what was obtained in violation of the law. Here is the departure from this concept. As a justification, it is stated that it is not possible to accept that, for example, if. a search is carried out, even if it is done in violation of the law Of course, this most often happens in violation of the law regarding some formal conditions And there's evidence of a crime, not even in a case in which he's racing... Let's say you're chasing someone for possession of drugs, and while you're searching, there are items from the theft. Well, you can't just go over it and stop chasing someone for stealing it just because this search was done in violation of the search procedure. Well, different things are involved, maybe sometimes more extreme, cases. This is what happened, this regulation we're adopting, with criticism. I'll be honest with you, I'm critical of it myself. Besides, there is also a problem with the relationship between this article and the article. 171 §7 criminal proceedings, which clearly Although this is limited only to personal evidence, i.e. from the hearing of witnesses or from the questioning of the suspect or the accused, it says that it cannot constitute evidence of testimony or explanation obtained in breach of the principle of freedom of expression of the person who testified or provided explanations. One can imagine such situations, for example. A police officer uses violence or insults, or otherwise affects him, e.g. suggesting him some facts or promising some benefits, in order to obtain specific content of testimony or explanations. Art. 171 §7 of the Code of Criminal Procedure expressly states that this, so obtained dispositions, cannot be evidence in the case. Now there's a question of how that goes with art. 168a. There is a general rule that extends to all evidence, because please note that it refers to evidence which has been obtained in breach of the rules of procedure, so this does not apply only to personal evidence but also to any other evidence. Fortunately, this article was not repealed. 171 §7 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. it must be assumed that this rule is still in force. But, as I say, this phrase, which refers to exclusion as evidence only of those that have been collected in connection with an officer's committing, most often a police officer, crimes that were either a homicide or a deliberate injury to his health, whether it's a deprivation of liberty, may raise a question about the meaning of the art. 171, the question is whether there is any contradiction here. Of course, I am in favour of the fact that it should be taught so that this article. 171 §7 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has absolute priority, because in any civilized society it is excluded, in particular, the use of torture or other means of coercion in order to obtain either testimony or explanations from the interrogated. Substantial changes concern issues I purposely address what significantly alters the rules of procedure and demands for compensation and compensation for persons who have been temporarily arrested in breach of the rules, which is clearly wrongly formulated by the legislator. The changes are that the limitation period for the recovery of these claims is reduced from 2 years to a year. I would like to remind you that the 1-year deadline was extended to 2 years on the occasion of this amendment to the 2013 Act, which entered into force since July 2015. Now we return to the original state that existed before this change, which is from a historical point of view we could say that we are returning to something that existed for decades. But as a defender of human rights, I must say here that this kind of regulation is a kind of retreat, not very fortunate, in my opinion, to the previous stage, because I know that I have such experience that people who have been unjustly deprived of liberty often experience such a far-reaching trauma that the annual limitation period seems to be too short. The change that introduced the 2-year deadline, which extended the statute of limitations, was generally beneficial and served to protect human rights. Often a man who is very hurt 'Cause there's actually nothing worse than a situation where a man is unjustly deprived of his freedom. She's even having a mental breakdown. Before he gets himself together, before he decides that he's going to seek compensation and compensation, it could really be more than a year that we want to bring in. It is therefore worth considering whether or not to give up the shortening of the recovery period for these claims. It also introduces a completely new institution, an institution which has not yet existed, namely an action against the judgment of the Court of Appeal, which repeals the judgment of the Court of First Instance. This is the introduction of a completely new institution, which is probably aimed at failing to bring about situations where there is unnecessary extension of the proceedings as a result of the fact that the second instance court, instead of possibly correcting the judgment of the first instance, will repeal it and refer it back to it for review. An action for such a judgment shall be brought before the Supreme Court. Of course, the question is whether this will actually speed things up or not. There are those who claim that this can further prolong the proceedings, because we know at what rate our Supreme Court is operating. Before the Supreme Court considers whether the judgment has been properly overturned and retrialed, and the first instance ruling has not been reformed, it will also take some time. So you can think about it, too. I know that in general at the moment there is a tendency to bring such a complaint. Anyway, it's worth considering. And that would be pretty much it. I purposely focused on those issues that may raise doubts. It's not hard to accept what I said. In general, it deserves to be accepted, especially this concept of return to the counter-disciplinary-inquisition model, but it is worth leaning on the issues that deserve this from the point of view of protecting human rights. By the way, I'm sorry, I'm just talking about it now, but it just occurred to me that it's also worth leaning over the article. 49 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which I hoped would be amended in the nearest revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is the definition of the victim. Definition in Article 49 states that the victim is the one who has suffered a direct violation of his rights. Ladies and gentlemen, in practice this leads to such absurdities that, when a document has been forged, a person wronged by that certificate, which is contained in the document, is not treated as a victim, even though it is very often having serious legal effects. I once had a situation that the bank gave false information in the certificate about the client's account balance in the matter of the distribution of the property, which resulted in him being a big cresus. Then there was a division that half got him, half wife. Only that there was no such money in the account, they were much smaller. Ladies and gentlemen, the D.A.'s office has refused to prosecute. It was a crime against the authenticity of the documents. It was found that it was not the person for whom there was an effect in the form of a decision on the distribution of the assets on the basis of a forged document. It was considered to be a criminal offence against the reliability of documents and therefore that person does not have the rights of the party. Like I said, the procedure was denied. The D.A. didn't come up with a rule that talks about forgery of documents, use it, and file an indictment. I remember that during the 2007-2011 term of office, the ombudsman, Dr. Kochanowski, paid attention to this and there was even a proposal to change this article. 49 of the Code of Criminal Procedure by removing this adverb directly. Because it's there that directly... There was a proposal to delete this directness so that the rights of these people No, we intuitively feel that these people are being wronged and protected and that we do not resort to the assertion that the person is not directly harmed, because it was simply forgery of documents, not causing negative effects on this man as a result of the inclusion of a false document. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the change was rejected because it was found that this was a matter of faulty practice and that the practice should be changed rather than the provision. Well, unfortunately, this practice has been going on ever since, and it's been going on for a few years, and it hasn't changed, it's been going on, and it's getting worse. To us as lawyers or as senators comes a lot of people who regret that in obvious cases where they have been harmed, they do not get the status of the victim. So that, on this occasion, it is worth considering whether this article. 49 won't change. I'm sorry I got a little chatty on my lawyer, talking about things that I'm passionate about as a lawyer, and you might be bored. Thank you very much. [[No, no.]] [[But that's good. That's right, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u46	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm filing a motion from a minority of committees, senators of the Civic Platform, to reject this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, even from the rapporteur's own paper... Let's remind you that this bill was late last night by both committees. The Human Rights Commission and the Legislative Commission were discussed. There was a discussion of amendments at the meeting, but a proposal for a law without amendments was finally adopted. However, we hear that even the rapporteur has very serious doubts and believes that some amendments should be made. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, first of all procedural, but not only because it also applies to material criminal law, is a law that completely reverses for almost 2 years the draft amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the entire system. I would like to remind you that the Act in force was adopted in September 2013 and entered into force on 1 July 2015. And here we hear, please, I will start with the vacathio legis, that such a serious submission, which not only, as I will say in a moment, is such an automatic withdrawal of this procedure, is to enter into force after less than 30 days, because on April 15th. That's the deal. So, ladies and gentlemen, before... And yet the Senate hasn't passed, the president hasn't signed yet, but he has to appear in the Official Journal of the Laws. And then there have to be printed codes. I mean, how are the parties to the trial gonna be able to act in court without codes? In general, it's impossible for me to imagine that such a kind, I would say, turn back, such a change had such a short... Well, if it should have the same thing as the last one... At least a year and a half. But, ladies and gentlemen, what's the problem? The problem is that the new law only entered into force on 1 July. You can't actually tell if she's... Because she's actually being implemented all the time. They prepare and prepare for this for a long time judges who have been trained at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and separately, in particular districts, and lawyers and lawyers. And, ladies and gentlemen, let's remember that we are talking about things that have only been brought in since July 1. So, if you consider the average period of handling things, not in consensual mode, but normally, in procedural mode, then things that occurred in August, September, etc., could not actually have ended at all. We don't have any comparison yet, completely. This is just the beginning. We cannot assess this amendment at all, absolutely. If it really wasn't right, then... But, ladies and gentlemen, that bill was being prepared. Okay, I'm gonna stress this. In political consensus. Please note that the Minister of Justice was the current Deputy Prime Minister, Jarosław Gowin. Mr Królikowski prepared this bill, with the acceptance and active participation of the codification commission, headed by Professor Hofmanski, an outstanding European judge of criminal law at the moment. And all of this has been done with regard to all European directives. Now, ladies and gentlemen, what? No opinion, no comparison at all... If I say something like that, we turn around, you'd have to have, like I say, practical experience, and evaluation, and at least the same... I'm not even saying that the same period, but at least the same body that could explain why... Because something like this has to be explained, not by politics, by one minister, but by legal authorities. Why such a change is to be made now, since, as I stress, the political consensus and, above all, the participation of the most outstanding criminal practitioners and procedures has been prepared for so long by this amendment. And with such a long period of vacathio legis. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there can be absolutely no agreement on this kind of way... We have heard that the professor quoted during the committee meeting... true, but well It is one of the best judges of the Supreme Court, the most prominent professors of criminal law, in relation to the entire committee of codification. Ladies and gentlemen, when the points are analysed, we would have to actually support them. I don't want to quote it here, because the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights has, ladies and gentlemen, more than 30 pages, mostly charges. There's only one thing about acceptance. As regards the limitation, in a sense, of these consensual decisions, and in general, as Senator Cichoń, a representative of the committee's applicants, who voted, as I said, to adopt this law without amendments... I had a thought, but I'll be right back... Oh, I know. But the point is, there's a danger of violating the article. 6th European Charter of Human Rights, European Convention on Human Rights. This also applies, ladies and gentlemen, to other directives referred to by the Helsinki Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have introduced an adversarial system, which is not exactly a vending machine, because, in particularly exceptional cases, the court can carry out this evidence itself. He can do it. It can also help in carrying out the proof of the Senate pointed out this initiative And it can carry out evidence that only the prosecutor can carry out, e.g. To make up for what I'm gonna say, defending the parties... It goes on for example. about classified information, bank information, etc., to which the defence has no access. It's been introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, the consequence of this system, the way in which the trial was conducted, was to give the party the opportunity to use a lawyer without restrictions. These are also European guidelines. We're going backwards. This is also what he said. And that's what he used to say. Mr. Senator Silence. Well, unfortunately, we are going backwards, ladies and gentlemen, and very seriously, contrary to the rule of law, from the Western paradigm. 'Cause we can... We're going in a different direction, as one of the prominent lawyers spoke about yesterday at the conference. We are, unfortunately, approaching the Eastern paradigm, ladies and gentlemen. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, the question of detention. After all, Poland continues This is what the National Judicial Council and the lawyer say about the length and the number of arrests. And we pay compensation, and so on. What's in here? An essential condition for the use of detention shall be introduced. Who's been criticized. In the form of the severity of the penalty. If there were another reason, like the fear of motherhood, then the matter would be clear. Ladies and gentlemen, we have some examples... Please see that this was shown in the film "The System," only that there was no mention of it, please, that it was the court that extended the arrest on the basis of the grounds of a threatening severe punishment. But such tragedies are very many and Poland pays compensation for arrests applied on such grounds. Ladies and gentlemen, the next question that has already been raised here is to eliminate the ban on the fruit of a poisoned tree. Well, it can't be... This is also mentioned in the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights and I encourage you to read this opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, there cannot be such a situation that the procedure... I stress that before this law was passed and entered into force in 2013, the case law of the courts went in that direction so that such evidence could not be used in a situation of gross infringement or provocation. We understand that this is about the effectiveness of the fight, but, ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be the way the rapporteur also said it. That the evidence obtained as a result of the crime will be accepted. I'm not talking about the fact that this isn't just a hypothetical situation, yesterday or the day before yesterday, there was a lot of noise in the mass media, because the police forced, it seems, in Olsztyn, using tasers, etc... [[What?]] Excuse me? [[The best thing Schetyna did was...]] [[Voices from the room: What? What?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's not like it's a secret. So that's not a pure theory, ladies and gentlemen. We've been talking... I have tabled a number of amendments, ma'am, but these amendments actually make it impossible for this law to enter into... these amendments are de facto crushing, eliminating the solutions contained in this law. After all, the principle of setting up a public defender should be restored, and there is also the question of the rules on anonymity, and there is a violation of the principle that it is impossible, so to speak, to accuse yourself, people close to you, and there is also the problem of extending the period of cancellation to a year. After all, the defendant, who is already convicted, and who is legally convicted, should know that only within six months can a cassation be brought, and that's the end of it. There must be some certainty about the legal status of people who have had a certain settlement for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to prolong this, although there are actually a whole bunch of problems that make this law absolutely and in such a version, and with such a date, and in the absence of any real justification at all, as I mentioned at the outset It should not enter into force, it should be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Borowski came forward. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u49	Thank you. The question arises from what the Senator rapporteur said here, and from what the representative said, from the senators who signed the minority request. Namely, any law which is introduced into Parliament, as you know, must be justified. In this justification we need to state what is the present state and what are the shortcomings of this state. Because if we change things, we have to assume that the condition is defective in some part. Then the desired condition is given and it is explained why the desired condition will be better and will eliminate these shortcomings. Well, that's the logic of justification. I looked into the justification of this bill, this project, when it entered the Sejm. There's just nothing there! I mean, none of these points are explained. And this is happening in the case of a law of absolutely crucial importance, because on the basis of it, people are deprived of freedom. So I have a question for Senator Silence. I thank him for a very substantive lecture on this law. My question is this: what are the measurable analyses, studies that show that the current state of the. which actually lasts short, since July, so 8 or 9 months... What are the facts, what are the numbers that say that this state needs to be changed? We were just discussing the issue of electronic surveillance. In that case there is also a short time, but there are given numbers, there were numbers and you could compare the state past... The past state was... I don't know, 1,000 or 2,000... [[5,000 500.]] How much? [[5,000 500.]] In that state there were 5,000 500 applications of electronic surveillance, and within 8 months there were 54 new cases - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Well, then it's okay, it's speaking. If we consider such care to be appropriate, that is the case. However, in this case, it is said that in a situation of adversariality, as it has been established, an innocent person may go to prison and the guilty person may avoid liability. Okay, maybe there's a risk. But has it been examined whether there have been such cases during these eight months? Was this compared to what was e.g. acquittal later challenged by appeal Or vice versa compared to data from the previous period? I don't find it all here. And I have to say, that's what's really bothering me. Well, it just seems that Minister Ziobro is in favour of a different concept and without major justifications, disregarding the achievements of outstanding specialists in this case, working for years, simply pushing this project. How about we break away from some political annotations to different camps, just really think about it? And that's a question for the senator. And right away, a second, short question about the fruit of a poisoned tree. Maybe I don't understand everything here. 168a: It is unacceptable to carry out and use the evidence obtained for the purposes of criminal proceedings by means of the criminal offence referred to in Article. 1 §1 of the Penal Code. I'm interested in... You gave an example of officers who, during the search, found evidence of another crime, etc. Well, I'm gonna say it's really questionable. But I'm talking about situations that are dangerous, that is, when officers break the law, using, for example. operational resources, they provide such evidence. So what? And they have to be included, right? I'd like to know if there's any other rule that rules that out, but I'm not clear here. That's the second point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm sure you'll agree with me that this question lasted longer than a minute. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I have to agree with the marshal.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as the justification for changing this model is concerned, it is quite comprehensively described, if I remember correctly. There are even some statistics on this, Primo, how the number of indictments brought has decreased, secundo, which may even be slightly more important, in how many cases the courts have returned to the prosecutors the indictment, referring to the fact that they allegedly contain shortcomings in the proceedings, in the evidence. This is indeed quite disturbing and indicating that the courts have begun to apply a completely extreme interpretation of the principle of adversariality, that they require almost amazing things from the prosecution. Well, ladies and gentlemen, no one is going to tell me that the prosecution's office from day to day after July 2015 started to act worse than before, when, yes, the institution of return of the indictment due to deficiencies existed, but these were quite occasional cases, and now the increase in the number of returns of indictments was probably, I don't know, a few hundred percent. This is proof that the regulation that has been introduced has led to an absurd situation. Of course, someone can defend the whole institution and say it's just bad practice. But, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, if the rule allows such bad practice to function, it is necessary to reach to the root and change this. Especially since the Inquisition-Contraductive Model existed for decades and was largely true. Of course, it is clear that our justice system has many shortcomings that are even stigmatized within the Council of Europe, especially by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, for example, the pace of action. But this must be prevented by other methods than by creating an adversarial process which, as I say, is competent in civil matters, but not in criminal matters. Such an adversarial model, which we were trying to introduce, exists in the extreme form in Anglo-Saxon countries, where there is a completely different legal culture, a completely different tradition. With us something has been introduced that is equivalent to the introduction of the principle of left-hand traffic into the right-hand place, just because it is so in England. Oh, come on. We went in a completely opposite direction. Of course, I am aware that there are also supporters of the adversarial system. But what are they referring to? They point to the fact that this process should be an aversion of views, evidence, the presence of parties: prosecutorial and defence parties. But, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's about a criminal case where it's about as important matters as human freedom, not property. Do we really have to keep this article? 167 of the criminal code that restricts the judge's evidence initiative, and if the judge is even convinced that the defendant has not committed a crime, and he thinks that there is still evidence to be made, but it has not been requested by the defense... And it could be different, ladies and gentlemen. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, by fighting in the breasts, that in a time of universal so-called. opening up an attorney's profession depends on what defender the defendant will have. If it hits a man, let's give it to him. I don't want to discriminate against anyone because of age. A young, inexperienced or sometimes scared of court... Because, ladies and gentlemen, what happens in our courts? That's what I say in broad forums. Ladies and gentlemen, it has come to some kind of absurdity that the one who is to defend, the lawyer, is afraid of himself. There have been, ladies and gentlemen, solutions that allow the judge to punish the lawyer with a fine. It was impossible in my day. This was in my youth, even though we lived in a totalitarian, communist system. But for some time now we've had solutions that young lawyers who may not have been through what I've been through, and they're not so tough in the fight to defend a man in action, they might be scared. And they often get scared. I see it in conversations with my younger colleagues who say: "What am I going to put myself in jeopardy by making one or another evidence request, reconstructing one or another decision of the judge, if it can happen that later, either in this case or in another case, he will find an opportunity to punish me, and I will pay 10 thousand zlotys. Fortunately, now there has been a change in the procedure and the penalties that can be imposed on the parties and on lawyers, from PLN 10,000 to PLN 3,000 have been limited. But this isn't the way. It can't be that whoever's supposed to defend, who's supposed to be brave, or a lawyer, is afraid of himself. This situation has been brought about by legal solutions that have been adopted over the last 10 years or so. This is the first part of the answer. The second part. The senator also asked about the matter of the evidence being the fruit of the poisoned tree. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide that I am also critical of the content of the article. 180a, if I'm not mistaken for numbering. I believe, however, that here the principle should generally be followed that the State, as always a party to the accused, has such an immeasurably stronger position and greater possibilities that it should not take any shortcuts and allow evidence which is obtained in an illegal manner. The State should set an example in maintaining the legality of the action. This is the kind of evidence I'm going to judge, I'm going to be honest, critical, but I just have a certain view shaped by decades of doing this job when I was mostly on the side of people who are being prosecuted because that's the general role of a lawyer. I assume you have to be very careful if there are any exceptions to this rule. That's my opinion, but as I say, it's my private opinion. It is difficult to imagine that in practice some methods would be used that would violate the general principle of legalism, because the state should act in accordance with the general principle of legalism, all state authorities should respect the law. Of course, I realize that sometimes discussions are held, especially in a time of terrorism, about whether or not the individual's freedom is sometimes less valuable than the lives of thousands of people. This applies to extreme situations, for example. Only some illegal method can prove that terrorists intend to assassinate several hundred people. Especially american lawyers are wondering if it's worth sacrificing human rights in this situation, a good individual, to save a few hundred people who might die because of the lack of evidence, information about the planned assassination. Some lawyers, especially American lawyers, go too far, in my opinion. Besides, the Patriot Act, which was adopted after the 2001 bombing as a temporary regulation, became a regulation which has been in existence for so many years, since it has been more than 10 years. I also mean as far-reaching as when torture can be used, which seems absolutely unacceptable to us in our tradition of respect for human rights. Moreover, in one case against Germany, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg found that torture or other inhuman treatment is absolutely prohibited, as is apparent from the article. 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Well, in a case where a suspect was physically forced to vomit ingested packed drugs to obtain evidence in the case, it was clearly found to violate the article. 3 The European Convention on Human Rights, so this type of action is unacceptable. These are perhaps too far-reaching considerations and may be very extreme, but this is to illustrate to the state what kind of These are legal problems. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u52	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u53	Thank you. Good. As far as the second point is concerned, thank you for the explanation. I understand that deleting this provision means that officers can break the rules, bring such evidence, and they should be taken into account. For now, I'm leaving it without comment. I have a question about the first question. Mr. Senator referred to the statistics indicating that during these nine months the courts more often returned cases to prosecutors and that this raises doubts, raises the question of why, what they require of these prosecutors. And don't you think that's due to the fact that in the system, as we call it nicely, the Inquisition prosecutors didn't do much of a job, in short, because they knew that if they did, the judge would just take over their duties? And this system, of course, in the first phase is quite embarrassing, but after a while, if you left it, it would lead to the quality of the prosecutors' work being simply elevated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u54	Mr. Senator, of course you can say that, but... # Like I said # It is impossible to assume that the limit date to which the prosecutors previously functioned and were occasionally reprimanded was July 2005, when suddenly after that time the indictments began to be returned. You can't really accept something that's real. The prosecution has always acted in accordance with a rule of law to prosecute any crime. With us there is no principle of opportunism, that the prosecution can choose when to pursue and when not to pursue, but whenever it is found that a criminal act has been committed, it should initiate and conduct proceedings. Like I said, it's a judge trapped in this particular cage. He sits in his judge's seat and only weighs arguments, because there is no evidence initiative, it seems pointless and even unfair. There may be a situation to the detriment of the accused. I'm saying it from a defense position. Because not carrying out specific evidence that indicates that he is innocent can lead to a guilty man being condemned to God's spirit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u55	That's the last question, really last one, I won't ask anymore. Mr. Senator, since prosecutors have worked so well so far, why have independent prosecutors been removed? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u56	Well, Mr. Senator, you're the one who thinks the D.A.'s office is dependent right now. You can't say he's dependent... [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is.]] There's just another way to organize it. The course of action of the prosecutor's office will continue to be maintained and will continue to be the same as it existed for decades before the separation of the institution of the prosecutor general and the minister of justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u57	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. [[Me?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u58	Yes. [[There you go.]] Dear Senator, just as I was a little jealous of you for being able to refer to the previous point, because he was actually positive for all of us, I am not so envious of the role you played, but because of our friendly relationship, I will not abuse this questioning position. I'd like to go back a little bit to what Senator Borowski said, and develop a little bit. We've been cutting back pretty recently... Well, not us, because at least I voted against it. Pretty recently, judicial oversight of the use of wiretapping has been limited. Is it because recently such a law and such regulations have passed, and now allow to command possibly from wiretaps that are unlawfully established... Isn't Mr. Senator afraid that this could have a very strong impact on the degree of civil rights protection? Isn't that gonna be a problem for the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u59	Mr. Senator, I've already spoken on this issue once before. I personally have reservations about the content of this article, so you do not have to convince me here. As a long-standing defender in various matters, not only national, but also before the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, where I also won cases against Poland, I would not want to be in such a situation that I win cases against Poland when we are in power. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So that I think we should do everything we can to make sure there's no such risk. And that's why I put forward some proposals for changes, generally agreeing with this change of procedure, which is, as I said at the outset, replacing the model with an inquisition-contradicative model. On the basis of what you said, Counselor Andrzejewski, that better is the enemy of good, I propose some solutions which seem better to me and which provide greater protection for the rights of the individual. I suggested that any solutions that would diminish these rights of individuals should be eliminated. And so, m.i. where there is a 2-year statute of limitations on claims for, of course, unfair temporary... I apologize where an annual statute of limitations is introduced in place of a 2-year period. I assume that solutions that give more rights to the individual deserve to be maintained, not limited. This is my general position, as a man and a lawyer, and also as a senator, because there is no way that I could be here in different roles and once said yes or no.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u61	In Senator Borowski's questions, but also in your statements, as well as during the work on codification and yesterday, during the committee meeting, in the prosecutor's statements, I think... I don't know if his name is General anymore, or... Well, let's say, ministerial. I don't want to say "Ziobra." In any case, there was such a belief that the prosecution was not prepared. So this would justify the number of 130,000 returned... but is that, in your opinion, a reason to depart from the philosophy of this proceeding? Or, rather, to equip the prosecution with appropriate means so that the prosecutions are actually prepared in an objective manner? Because that is a condition that the code did not stand. And a question of derivatives. Doesn't even your claims about the potential or the quality of the bar mean that we're making a false start on the bill under discussion here? [[It's okay, isn't it?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u62	Senator, I don't share your view. It's just... [[That was a question.]] The question, which at the same time contained an opinion. Well, that's good. As I said before, it cannot be assumed that by July the prosecution acted as decently and after July it acted so hopelessly that there was such a huge number of statements of accusations. Well, that would be simply contrary to the experience of life. Thus, this point indicates that the solution adopted, in the form of an extreme interpretation of adversariality by the courts, is simply non-viable and will not lead to the achievement of the basic objective of the criminal trial, as expressed in Article. 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where it is written that the purpose of criminal proceedings is to bring about the detection and punishment of the perpetrator of the crime and at the same time to ensure that the innocent person is acquitted. Well, that's a good point, the lawyers say you have to take a model of conduct at all, so there's no situation in which anyone innocent would be convicted. In fact, it is said that it is better for a thousand guilty persons to be acquitted because of their happiness in a trial or some kind of ailment to the prosecution or the court, than for one innocent to be convicted. Well, that's the noble purpose of humanitarian criminal procedures. And that is what we are going to do by repealing this unfortunate article. 167, which has just introduced an extreme form of the principle of adversariality and which binds the judge's hands by depriving him of the evidence initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u63	May I ask you a question, Mr. Marshal? Don't you think the Senator rapporteur, in that claim that this number is an objective clue and that there is no such thing anymore... And are you familiar with the fact that this codification was created by the fact that the courts had been collapsed with bad prosecutions and therefore could not carry out justice proceedings in this country, so to speak? This was the direct cause of this codification. And that's what they know, and you'll admit it, but judges who don't have professorships because of theoretical work. They did a lot of practical work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u64	Mr. Senator, I don't want to judge anyone here because judging anyone is the last thing... Especially by a lawyer who has a slightly different nature and prefers to defend rather than judge. But, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I'm saying this as a practice. The courts, in general, with us, under our conditions, tend to judge as little as possible in substance. If you consider, I apologize for jumping into civil procedure, the amount of effort put in by the courts so as not to recognize the case at all, so as to find some legal loopholes that will cause a lawsuit or appeal to be dropped, you will see that this is sometimes a disproportionate amount of energy to what is put in order to identify the matter in substance at all. I suspect that a similar mechanism, unfortunately, has now worked, after this amendment has been introduced in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The courts have found themselves a convenient lock so that they don't recognize the case at all. After all, this is a very comfortable situation for the judge. He returns the indictment as non-compliant, has in his statistics a case counted as recognized, and recognizes it literally in a few minutes, because it takes so long to write the order that the indictment is returned. And he doesn't have to spend tens or hundreds of hours trying to identify the matter in substance, he doesn't have to analyze tens of volumes of files sometimes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, we want to get back to the fact that the courts are making a substantive diagnosis of cases, because if we are not hasty, on the basis of those provisions that were adopted in 2013, we are repealing them now, and we are unfortunately having to sit down and read these volumes, listen to witnesses, listen to the accused, and at the end of the sentence. And this is very laborious and very difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u65	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u66	Mr. Senator, don't you think the return to the D.A.'s office is exactly when the judge gets to know the material? He needs to justify this and give the prosecutor directions to supplement his case. And it may be that the presented material, well, threatens to be acquitted. And that is why the court, so to speak, in fear of this acquittal, seeing that the material is weak But after an analysis of not three minutes, it often takes as much time as before the judgment, i.e. after an analysis of all the evidence Not wanting a person, perhaps guilty, to be held accountable, to be saved from the fact that he is returning the indictment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u67	Well, Mr. Senator, it wouldn't be good for a judge if he had such a nature, so to speak, bloodthirsty, and if the very thought of being able to acquit someone, decided about his actions. The judge should be fair. And if he sees grounds for acquittal, he should acquit. It's that in practice I don't know if you know that. The fact is that, unfortunately, where there is an indictment, 95% There's a conviction. That's another thing. But I wouldn't assume that the judge... Well, maybe it is in practice, but it would be reprehensible if the judge, after a preliminary examination of the files, had it come from such an assessment that it would have been acquittal, for this reason returned the indictment. That would be... Like I said, it would be very bad for a judge. It would show that it has nature, like I said, almost bloodthirsty. And that if he thinks there's an indictment, it should be a conviction, and if he's got some doubts, he's gonna give it all back to the D.A. just in case he gets it all on the last button, and he's gonna think it's gonna happen. The judge should be the man who takes the case this way: he receives the case file, starts the trial and doesn't know what the sentence will be. Even if it presumably dawns in his head that there is overwhelming evidence to convict, a good judge, as I say, should seek all means of proof also to acquit a man. The current article. 167 ties his hands to the judge, and he's not allowed to carry out evidence of his own motion. And that's the worst evil of this solution that we're lucky to repeal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u68	Thank you. Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u69	This is the situation we were dealing with when an innocent man had been sent to prison for 40 months. This was a three-year-old situation. We're talking about Mr. Maciek Dobrowolski, in which case the judge, without evidence of guilt, systematically extended the arrest. This is exactly the situation you were talking about. And that's what happened because it was the law. It's a law that absolutely needs to be changed, because whatever the ideals that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, I'd like to finish. [[It was in the old system.]] Wait a minute. It was in the old system. [[And now we're bringing it back.]] No, no, we're changing that now. Because it's... [[No!]] I'll tell you what happened in 2012. So which system are you talking about? On May 28, 2012, this is the date of arrest. [[Yeah, that's when the old system was in place, and the new system is from...]] Are you trying to prove that the judge had every right to do this and that he was willing to... [[You're wrong...]] Maybe I'll finish the question. Don't you think that the changes that you are now making as a representative of the committee or as a representative of... [[I'm sorry, I didn't really understand the question, because first you presented the facts... what's the problem?]] [[It's on break...]] Gentlemen have been disturbing me a little bit, and unfortunately I have had to react to it. I wasn't interrupting, but you can see there's another culture of being... I mean, when someone talks, it gets in his way, discussions develop, and so on, but okay. The situation was that a man without accusation was held in custody for more than 40 months as a result of the court's continued arrest on a regular basis. Will these changes that are being made allow control of such cases, e.g. Is it because of the DA's supervision?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u70	To be honest, at the moment, I don't remember whether it was changed or not, but until now, as far as memory serves me, there was such a regulation that the duration of temporary detention until the first instance ruled... [[What year was that?]] I always have a problem with numbers. I think it's been a year or two, but I can't remember exactly, which is why I'm always checking the code. And I don't think it's changed here. [[There's no change.]] As I say, there are so many changes here that without looking at the text, I am unable to answer the senator precisely. [[Is the introduction of direct supervision...]] Senator Zientarski says there's no limit? [[No, there's no change here.]] Oh, there's no change. [[And is not the introduction of direct supervision of the prosecution a change that can be counted on in this particular case?]] Well, sir, of course there must be a full responsibility of a judge here who applies temporary detention. I can tell you that at a time when I practiced as a lawyer, temporary custody was used by the prosecution. This, of course, was contrary to the standards of the European Convention on Human Rights, and after we joined the Convention in 1991, it was of course amended and, at the moment, the temporary detention is being applied by the court. But our courts, well, they're not very fortunate to use these arrests, which has been met with a critical assessment, among others. the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Even such a resolution on the abuse of temporary detention institutions was adopted at the time. And that's what we have to work on all the time. The situation, I think, has improved slightly recently, but here you must always be vigilant, because with respect for human rights it is never so that you can settle for it and say that everything is okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u71	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have three short questions. First of all, when you were talking about... I'm not a lawyer, and I listen to you with a lot of interest. And I have to say, I feel like you're against this bill. But it's just an impression, I hope... [[You misunderstood.]] That's what I wanted to ask you: if, having these doubts, particularly regarding the fruit of a poisoned tree, having these doubts that you have outlined, I understand, at the committee meeting... How will you vote? That's one question. My second question concerns the whole system. This system, let's call it the inquisition that we're restoring... Could you tell me if you have any knowledge in which countries in Europe there is a system that we are restoring, i.e. an inquisition system and in which it is adversarial? And the third question. You mentioned that one of the arguments for restoring the good old Soviet system is that if there's a novice lawyer who, well, doesn't know how to defend, as you said, has no experience and doesn't use the right arguments to defend himself, and an innocent man will be convicted... And when the role of a judge is brought to the point of how you said it was a man trapped in a cage that gives a sentence, it could cause an innocent man to be convicted. So tell me what kind of bill you're going to introduce if this is the situation: well, there's the inexperienced lawyer you've told me about and the slightly inexperienced judge. Who's gonna protect the innocent guy in court? That's my question. Because you're saying that we're bringing a judge in front of this inexperienced man and that the judge is defending him. That's how I understand it. That is, to use certain arguments to extract who is guilty here and who is not. But answer me... I'm gonna ask you one more time because I can see that... you don't know what I'm asking. Okay, well, once again, I'd like to say... [[No, no, I know, I know.]] You know? [[Yes.]] Here's the situation: there's an inexperienced lawyer, and there's a slightly inexperienced judge. Then who's gonna protect this innocent man from trial? [[You're saying they're both inexperienced, right?]] Right. Because you're saying that only a lawyer... But if the judge is also inexperienced, then who will protect this man? Why don't you put a new system on it? [[Oh, no, Mr. District Attorney...]] Oh, you called me the D.A.? [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u73	Oh, no, I'm sorry. Because I just felt... At this point I felt like I was on the other side of such a dispute, and that's why I said Mr. Prosecutor instead of Senator. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry. [[Oh, I'm the D.A.!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator, one at a time. The first question was... [[Do you want me to say it again?]] If you could just... Yes. Because I remember the prosecution the most... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u75	Then why don't I ask you one question, the senator will answer, and then there'll be another. [[I think it's for the best.]] I'll start with the third one. If there are two inexperienced... Shouldn't there be a new solution to this, that it's the defendant's defense attorney?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u76	There's something going on here because I have to tell you that it's also the responsibility of the prosecutor to carry out evidence that is in the favor of the defendant. That's not enough. I'll tell you, there's a rule in the appeal institution that says the prosecutor can appeal, too. has the benefit of the defendant Which would seem a little shocking at first glance, because the prosecutor is accusing him of obtaining the sentence he wanted. But he also has the right to appeal in favor of the defendant. So that here the weight of defending a man from the fact that, God forbid, an innocent is not convicted, is so highly exposed in the procedure that the prosecutor can also perform some kind of defence function. 'Cause that's what you'd have to call it when the D.A.'s pressing an appeal against a conviction that went down in a case. Not much, in turn, a lawyer has a duty to take only actions that are beneficial to the accused. He must not take action that would be detrimental to the accused. Not much, a lawyer sometimes has to act even against the defendant. Because there are situations where the defendant takes actions that are unfavorable to him. But a lawyer is independent in his mission to defend a man and works always in his favor, so he can sometimes act even against the will of his ruler. And when it comes to these two inexperienced members of the justice system, the judge and the lawyer, it can happen sometimes, but there's also what I mentioned, so there's also a prosecutor who can. And sometimes he should take on a kind of defence function, because, as I said, he has the right and obligation to act also in favor of the accused if he sees that it is necessary. Including the fact that he has an obligation to appeal to the defendant, who was convicted at the request of that prosecutor. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'll continue.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u77	Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u78	I'm coming back... Thank you for this beautiful lecture, but I'm going to ask you one more time. You argued that you were introducing this bill... that there might be an inexperienced lawyer and that judge in the cage, unable to participate actively in the trial, suppose, criminal. And then an innocent man can be convicted. That was the point in your speech. So now I'm asking you again, not to mention this beautiful speech about the role of individual persons in a court of law at a given hearing. And I'm asking you to tell me what the panacea will be if there's an inexperienced judge and an inexperienced lawyer. So, what, the third act you want to introduce? What's it gonna look like? I'm following your reasoning here. Come on, tell me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u79	Mr. Senator is deliberately arguing ad absurd to prove that we are supposedly wrong here. [[Oh! And for that answer, thank you very much.]] But, Senator, the thing is, these situations are relatively rare, and besides, just like you, I told you, the role of the prosecutor is also to act in favor of the defendant in a situation where he thinks that procedure can lead to an innocent man being convicted. These academic, outrageous cases that you mentioned, fortunately, have something to do with them, that, practically speaking, they don't happen or almost happen, and even if they did happen, there's another instance that needs to be remembered. Errare humanum est, as the ancients said, is a human thing to be wrong. Neither are judges who would be infallible. Hence the second instance procedure, sometimes even the third, as is envisaged in some solutions. Finally, there is the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which sometimes corrects even the highest courts in individual countries that are wrong, including the Supreme Courts and constitutional tribunals. [[Moving on to the second question, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u80	I just have a technical question. Are there any questions for Senator Zientarski? Because he has to leave us. I suspect there's no... [[Yeah, one.]] It is, isn't it? Can we ask the senator to ask Senator Ziientarski a question? Then he could leave us.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u81	Thank you for your voice, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. Today there are many accusations that we are returning to some Eastern cultures, etc., that the independence of the prosecution has been violated. Well, there's a lot here, to put it mildly... well, maybe I won't. You were suggesting something about tasers, too. I'd like to get back to the situation a few years ago. Your current head of the Platform and then the Minister of the Interior I don't know if he was an inspiration, but I'm sure he had to know everything. It led to a situation where more than 700 people were arrested and arrested, so-called. It's a pain in the ass. There was a fashion to fight theaters back then. Many of these people have been tortured mentally and physically, there will probably be trials in these cases. On what legal basis did you then lead to this action? [[I can answer that, can't I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u82	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u83	Sir, first of all, the judiciary is independent. The prosecution was independent at the time. The Attorney General was a person appointed by the holy memory of President Lech Kaczyński. Therefore, the Platform 'Cause that's what you call it. She had nothing to do with it because she did not accuse or influence the prosecution or influence the resolution of cases. Undoubtedly a criminal issue Not theoretical, that's what I was gonna say. It is wrong to obtain evidence in a criminal way. And the police often break the law, as we hear about it, no matter what system they're in. I don't want to burden the police or the minister responsible for the police right now, because these situations have happened in every system. Norma is abstract, she's supposed to apply to all situations. It's supposed to protect the citizen and the courts, and the prosecution from the temptations of provocation. We had evidence of this in the form of judicial case law, as regards this issue, that the prohibition on the non-use of the fruit of a poisoned tree is not absolute, it is not so broad, it is narrow. But the point is, you can't a priori eliminate this rule. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u84	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the senator? [[I still have a question for the senator.]] You're welcome, Senator Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u85	Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. I've been talking to a lot of prosecutors about these new laws, and they've pointed to one flaw. I'd like to know if you share their opinion. The point is that when today there are such procedures, when there is an adversarial process, that is actually 2 parties submit various kinds of evidence, the court examines them and then decides in this respect, and it does not conduct proceedings itself... Aren't you afraid that the D.A.'s office, which represents the victim who's accusing, has other resources than the other side? This victim is very often a victim of a certain crime, a victim of a certain crime. He often doesn't have the money. Can't you see? I'm not saying that this is the case in all proceedings, but that in many, which the prosecutors have just pointed out In this regard, the parties' inequalities in terms of even financial opportunities? Because on one side, there's the possibility of even making private opinions of all kinds, even the opinions of the Nobel Prize winners, because the defendant is fighting for his freedom. I do not determine whether it is a guilty or innocent man, but very often it is a guilty man and on the other hand there is no such possibility. Perhaps this is also one of the reasons why these provisions need to be amended. I would like to know your position in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u86	I understand it completely the opposite of the senator's. The stronger side is the prosecutor's office, which... [[Why?]] ...represents the injured party often, but the injured party is also represented by a lawyer or legal counsel, as he is now, as the attorney of the supplicative prosecutor. So... [[It's not always...]] ...injured... [[Not always, because we always have a public defender for the defendant.]] Yes. [[We always have a public defender on that side.]] But that's because, Senator, the prosecutor's office has a whole camera: a police camera, its official camera. And that's why there's gotta be a defense attorney to... [[It's obvious...]] ...is to level it out. But... [[But this camera...]] ...see... [[I do, Mr. Senator...]] ...what we introduced in our previous term of office And we agreed to do that. Laws that strengthen the role of the victim. There's been a few laws like this... [[Yes...]] ...e.g. It's a matter of... [[...I took part in their introductions myself.]] ...a advance, paying them off without waiting for a final ruling, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u87	But I'm talking about this situation... [[Exactly, because I don't really understand.]] ...that that prosecutor's camera you're talking about... [[Yes.]] ...brought us to the courtroom already. Right? [[Yeah, yeah.]] We have an indictment. We're already in the middle of a trial. [[Yes.]] And don't you think that, in a situation where today's rules are in force about adversariality, that is quite often the inequality? 'Cause on the one hand, there's a prosecutor who actually did everything he could to lead to an indictment, and he's gonna be filing this evidence for a conviction... [[Yes.]] And suppose he's also guilty, that is. From the evidence, that's what it says. But right on the other side is the person who every time, having a public defender and having money at his disposal They are different people, but suppose that this financially very well standing person will use all possible means that the other party will not have. Don't you feel that way?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u88	No, I don't, because... [[That's okay, 'cause I just wanted to sort of...]] I don't feel it. Of course, it's about public defenders doing their job properly... [[Nobody's gonna...]] This, of course, involves a taxi, a lift, etc. Notice, and I know from the environment that it used to be so that actually these so-called. Offices weren't attractive to lawyers. At the moment, in such a pauperization of the profession, lawyers are really waiting in queues for public affairs and in district courts, if these are long-term proceedings, these rates are not so low. [[Last sentence...]] At the same time, it mobilises not only young, but also experienced lawyers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u89	Last sentence, that's what you're saying. So this side that's being accused will use all possible means, which is 10 private opinions... [[Yeah, but here...]] ...the opinion of the Nobel Prize winner, on the other hand, the victim, who is e.g. A farmer, I don't know, a very poor person, will never stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u90	Yes, Senator, but the court... [[And the court only decides in terms of evidence.]] Senator, this is about a different philosophy, it's about not only being the prosecutor who's equipped for it. And you notice that there is some inequality. But in order for the court to be brought in, the court should also help this apparatus. After all, the idea of this initiative is for the court to... [[But the court only decides what's on the table. Right?]] And that's why we're against it, I'm talking about minorities, we're against introducing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u91	Today, the court decides what's on the table. Meanwhile, the laws which are here, to which we are returning, to which we say so, but allow the court itself, on its own initiative, to carry out all the proceedings of evidence. [[Yeah, on your own initiative, if...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u92	Yes, on my own initiative, I understand that in defense of the victim. [[The voice from the room: Except it can't...]] But that's what there are sides to it, that's what lawyers are for, that's what prosecutors are for, so the court doesn't do them. That's what this is all about. [[And here we've come to clou, to the fact that there's an inequality that can be very...]] But on which side is this inequality supposed to be on? I don't really understand which scale this inequality is supposed to burden, which side it's going to lean on. [[To the judge's side.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u93	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for Senator Zientarski? If not, thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Let's get back to Senator Silence's questions. Mr. Senator... I'm addressing Senator Silence. You're welcome, Senator... [[He's having an important conversation.]] [[Zbyszek...]] Mr. Senator, back to your questions. [[Yes, you're welcome.]] Mr. Senator Blackbay, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Now the last two questions, because we have come to the conclusion that the absurd arguments behind this law have nothing to quote. This is the conclusion from your statement. So I'd like to refer to the other two questions I asked, then I'll ask one more question. Do you know of countries in Europe that have an inquisition system like we are restoring?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u95	Sir, most countries in Europe have a similar system. As I say, it is not quite inquisitional, because it cannot be called an inquisition system, it is a mixed system, in which there are elements of adversariality and elements of inquisition. In any case, there are always elements of inquisition. From what I understand, similar solutions are applied in France. Of course, I will not talk about the opposite, as the United Kingdom is an example, but, as I know, in France, there are similar systems in Germany. I do not feel competent to give an answer that I would take full responsibility for, because I am not a comparist, which is generally not a comparative law and a comparison of solutions in different countries, although because I work with a lawyer, especially with a French lawyer, I have more or less an orientation, such as this. It looks in France.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u96	One last short question. If you have as much doubt as we do about the evidence coming from the so-called. Poisoned tree, whether you vote in favour. And if so, why, if you have so much doubt.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u97	Oh, you're asking me to make a statement in advance. I'll tell you, I'm certainly not going to vote for the version that is right now. I am thinking of introducing an amendment here that would satisfy my view of this institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u98	Thank you very much. No further questions, so... [[Senator Staron's still here.]] Senator Staron. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I still have a question. You signalled in your statement, if I heard it correctly, the need to change the definition of the victim. It's about art. 49 §1. [[Yes.]] I have repeatedly written interpellations on this subject, and let me honestly say that the only thing that has, fortunately, changed is the possibility of filing a complaint. It's an art. 306 and only in this respect... I would like to know, now, on the occasion of this amendment, do you see the need and opportunity to extend this definition? There are situations where you know that very well. - to give false testimony in court, to give false opinions in court. What happens then? When a person in connection with such an opinion feels victimized and makes a notification to the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor refuses to initiate proceedings, claiming that the person is not a party. 'Cause who got hurt? The justice system, although this opinion concerned the case of this person. [[Right.]] Right? We have such situations and they are very common, they are not rare at all. Would you like to see the opportunity, too, to know if this was discussed at the committee meeting? For example, the extension of the article. 49 by introducing a new paragraph or §2a... I may read it, although it may be underdeveloped, but it is more or less something like this: where the primary subject of protection is a general good, the authorities conducting proceedings shall examine whether the offence does not at the same time infringe or endanger the individual welfare of the entities referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2. This is a proposal that was once consulted with the Ministry of Justice, so to speak, in the previous cast, which also pointed to such a need. I would like to know your position on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u100	Senator, I'm in favour of changing the art. 49. I don't know if in the very formula you've presented... I put it much more modestly and simply. I think the simplicity of the rules has the advantage that... [[It doesn't matter. It's just...]] ...doesn't give you any doubt. The more words, the more discussions of lawyers and different opinions about what a given provision means. I think it would be easiest to cross out that expression of directness. Then, if we have an indirect effect that someone... Let me give you another example: for example, false testimony. I don't know if you mentioned false testimony... [[Yeah, I told you. Very common...]] I'm sorry. Exactly. These are extreme examples when people obviously are treated as unharmed, because there is no direct effect here. It is claimed that the criminal justice system is being wronged because someone falsely testified in court. And the fact that, as a result, someone, for example, I don't know, was convicted or some kind of infamy surrounded by... [[Or lost his fortune.]] ...is out of the interest of the D.A.'s office. This needs to be clearly changed. On this occasion, we may consider whether this provision will not be changed today. I remember how happy I used to be. We changed the recipe, as a result of my initiative... At that time, we lifted an absurd provision that provided that if the lawyer was wrong about the amount of the court fee, his appeal was rejected. Well, it was absurd to the power of entego, as if the fee depended on anything... What is to be instrumental, what is to be completely sidelined in the proceedings, has grown to the fundamental importance of determining the outcome of the procedure. We have to eliminate this kind of absurdity. Same here. Since we feel intuitively that someone is being wronged by the fact that documents have been forged or falsely testified, there is no need to introduce legal fiction by translating this phrase that it is to be directly affected by a specific act or omission, it is simply necessary to delete the wording "directly." And then you can apply here the interpretation that is consistent with our intuition and experience... [[With a sense of justice.]] ...that someone is actually harmed by a certain act or omission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u101	I'm going to add another example that I'm pretty close to. There are millions of members of housing cooperatives who clearly report, indicating not always, but often For specific abuses, e.g. To the board of directors... And then there's the situation that the D.A.'s office is refusing to act, or sometimes it's going to die if she's leading them. And if these people even want to complain or do anything, then they're not a party. Who's the party? The same board they had previously filed a notice on. Such cases, not just court cases, are really a lot.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u102	Right. Art. 306, which the senator mentioned, which means the possibility of filing a complaint against the D.A.'s order... [[Yeah, I've been able to change that.]] ...in practice, it's kind of a fake. Well, I don't know if anyone's been doing any research. It would be worth studying what percentage of such complaints are even taken into account. 'Cause in practice, they're small...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u103	Partly, but very small. It was the only way to change back then. That is why it would now be so important to change the definition.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u104	There is only the possibility that, if the prosecutor's order has been revoked by the court and the prosecutor, he still takes the same, which is a negative position, his own indictment can be brought. This is the only way in now. And once such a gateway did not exist, so that there was still some progress... [[Yeah, but it's a road through torment.]] Exactly. [[That should be...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u105	Senator Zdrojewska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u106	Thank you very much. I'm gonna take the senator's earlier question because I didn't understand exactly if the senator was... But I would also like to ask you a question about the right of defence. And I'm gonna use the opinion of the National Judicial Council here. Well, I quote: "The Council's view is that it is wrong to abandon the existing solutions regarding the possibility of the parties to the proceedings, at the stage of legal proceedings, from the help of a defender or an official representative. At present, the basis for the appointment of a lawyer or representative shall be the submission of such a request by the party, unrelated to its property situation. In the meantime, as I read here, in this opinion of the National Judicial Council, the opinion of the project proposes to move away from the principles that were earlier, and I quote, among other things, that the defendant and the defendant should be granted access to a professional defender, depending on the outcome of the verification of his property status. And I would like to ask the president for an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u107	Senator, the fact that a public defender confesses, based on such a criterion, whether anyone can afford to choose a defender or not, is consistent with the art standard. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights. There, the right to a public defender is clearly foreseen for a person who is unable to involve a lawyer in a lack of resources and, at the same time, if the interests of the judiciary so require. There must be such a connection that, Primo, a given man wants a protector and there is no means for it, and secundo, the interests of the justice system require... So I think that everything here would be okay if this was the regulation that would be adopted. I propose not so much to repeal the article. 80a, who actually, to the point of exaggeration, gave the right to an attorney practically at every request of the defendant... I propose not only to repeal this article but to amend it by applying a wording that reflects the standard of the European Convention on Human Rights. So that, God forbid, it did not happen that Poland would lose the case before Strasbourg for such a reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u108	Are there any more questions? Senator Staron, one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u109	I'm just gonna say the last sentence. I'm just gonna talk to... My question to Senator Ziientarski wasn't about whether there should be a public defender or not, but, above all, about the means that the court recognizes. So... the court, which, on the basis of previous regulations, has been involved in the proceedings of evidence and even initiated them, was, so to speak, the driving force of this process, and according to today's laws it decides as to what is on the table, so to speak colloquially, what the parties will present to it. And I was talking about inequality, because there might be a situation where on one side we'll have a very well-established defendant who's able to submit to at least a dozen private opinions, well, even Nobel Prize winners, and on the other side A victim who will not have such funds. And that's why on this table we're talking about, there may never be that equality. So in this respect...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u110	Well, the senator's right, the legal situation that exists now is indeed conducive to such situations. [[I don't see any more calls...]] Senator Comfort looked at me with a crooked eye, but that's what I think, even though we're both lawyers, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. I would remind you that the bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr. Marcin Warchoł, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No, thank you very much.]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to take such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Are there any requests for discussion? You're Senator Comforter, aren't you? [[Excuse me, I'm a little distracted, and I have a question for the Minister.]] Okay, here you go. Senator Comfort. A question for the Minister. You're welcome, Mr. Senator,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u112	Minister, I'd like to ask you something. Do you have statistical data at the Ministry that would indicate that over the last year Two of us were dealing with an increase in crime? That's one thing. Secondly, whether or not an analysis has been carried out in the area of acceleration A decision by applying this new procedure? I would like to remind you that despite all doubts as to whether the adversarial system gives full guarantees of process and disclosure of material truth, the main and fundamental weapon of those who wanted to introduce this system was that it was intended to shorten, drown and discharge the obstructions in the justice system. Were there any tests done? Are they available? Do you have them? And can this be assessed in any credible way in your assessment after eight months of this new system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u113	Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u114	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm going to refer to crime data. These data are collected over a number of years and analysed. We're not talking about the Penal Code, we're talking about the Penal Procedure Code. The increase in crime, the decline in crime concern analyses which are important in the formulation of specific substantive criminal law. This is ahead of us. We develop this type of data, collect and prepare a draft of assumptions, for example, in the context of the flexibility of penalties. There's been news in the media, given by the Minister, of a fine limited to a week. Reliable punishments, 28, 29, 30 years, 20 years... the interval between punishment and punishment of 25 years of imprisonment is undeveloped. So that this data will be absolutely necessary for us and will be a starting point for us, as a summary for this type of work. As far as data on criminal proceedings are concerned, yes, we have such data. They look like this. Oh, there you go. I just don't know if it's clear. Those posts are convincing. Namely, with regard to the impact of cases with an indictment to district courts in the second half of 2015, a decrease of 164 000 634 cases in the first half of 2015 to 58 000 258 cases in the second half of 2015 was observed. This is a drastic drop, because from over 150,000 to over 50,000. The defenders of this reform proved that this decline was due to the fact that these indictments were, I will say, colloquially, pushed out before 1 July. That's not true. Let's take a look at the figures from last year: 163,000 917. That's what the number of statements of indictment is about, and it's quite important, please, I'll show it to all of you. As we can see, 4542 in the second half of the year to 1563, and earlier, in the second half of the year, 1799. So there's been a drastic increase in the number of returns, while the prosecution's indictments have been drastically reduced. There were such courts in the city centers, where we recorded one indictment in November. So we've seen the dynamics of the accusation drop. From talking to the D.A., we know they're waiting for April 15th to be saved, in human terms. Why? This criminal process, which is called the adversarial process, effectively prevents the execution of the basic function of criminal proceedings, which is the function of seeking the principle of material truth and an appropriate criminal response, primarily justice. I don't want to dwell on the details here. Many questions have been asked today, including: The senator's question is, are there any other legal systems where this model we're returning to is present. Mr. Senator, all in Europe except one except Italian. What happened in Italy? In 1989, the US model was introduced and after a year there were the first signs of instability of the system, but regardless of this, it went on and after a quarter of an century of the validity of this model we have such a situation that in 2004 and 2014 a million cases were decommitted as a result of limitation. Someone will say, okay, but there were no statute of limitations in the official model at the end of the 1980s. They were. There were several thousand, only a few thousand, while in 1994 there were more than 56 thousand pending cases, and now there are over 160 thousand pending cases a year, ladies and gentlemen. There's been a million statute of limitations in the last ten years. It's a collapse. I recommend a very interesting book, entitled La giustizia penale in Italia: un processo da sblockare. La lezione americana. I studied in Italy, I know that system, I worked in that system. A very good book that shows what the Italians have to deal with. The book of two authors of the judge and prosecutor Two years ago, published in Padua. Locked Process American lesson: there you go, we bought ourselves an American trial, and here's what he's done, that's the result. As far as this type of data is concerned, I am of the utmost service to you. And a second example. Mr. Senator, you've been asking about examples from other countries. Germany. In the German letter Zeitschrift für die gesamte Staatswissenschaft, we find a very interesting article from 2014, Abschied von der Suche nach der Wahrheit... I'm a scientist, so I follow up on literature, analyze. Goodbye to finding the truth in Poland... What are we reading here? We read that the search for truth... This court is responsible for searching for the truth, not parties who are primarily pursuing their interests in the process and are not obliged to seek the truth, but, on the contrary, can effectively prevent it. So it is up to the court to do so. And since we're talking primaries, it's a return to principle, a return to principle. The court gives judgment on behalf of the Republic of Poland, hence it is his duty to pursue the principle of justice, the principle of material truth. Not redefined, as the reform fathers wanted. Justice should be redefined... Sorry, objectivity, the principle of objectivity needs to be redefined. Yes? This is the prosecutor, the prosecutor will only act as a public prosecutor, i.e. I'll quote you. It's going to be basically... The role of prosecutor in court is also rather one-sided. The new system conditions should lead to interpretation of the Article. 4 k.p.k. strictly, taking into account that, after an indictment, the prosecutor becomes a party to the proceedings and therefore ceases to be the addressee of the directive deriving from that provision. He becomes a player in a trial looking for evidence to the detriment of him. The court side is turning into a ring for us. Where's the truth? The truth is also redefined. Instead of material truth, coherent truth is proposed, normative truth, pragmatic truth, consensusal truth, correspondence, etc. All of this causes dilution, dilution of axiological bases, system bases and legal bases. The Italian system is interesting when it comes to scientific analysis. E.g. Croatians went to Italy and did research, etc., and analyzed it in the context of such an interesting experiment. But our country, our justice system, our responsibility for justice doesn't allow us to experiment. This reform that we are carrying out today is the second reform Next to the reform of the D.A.'s office, which ended... It was an experiment, but the experiment can't stay, it can't stay the way it is right now, because we're dealing with dozens of cases, hundreds of cases, victims and Finally, with the defendants. I will remind here the position of the Regional Bar Council of Krakow from January 2015, very sceptical of this reform; I will remind the position of the Legislative Council of 22 March 2012, skeptical of this reform as a foreign culturally Polish system, as a introduced hastily, without taking into account social, cultural and environmental factors. And I'll point to an opinion... Because it was about the opinions of outstanding professors, but we also have such opinions. There is Professor Kruszyński's opinion, which indicates that in terms of withdrawing from the changes concerning the counter-dactical form of judicial proceedings, this project should be considered to be worthy of approval. There is also the opinion of Prof. Maria Rogacka-Rzewnicka, who also points to a number of elements incompatible with our environment, with our social system, with our legal culture. And the opinion of Professor Garbage. Why did Italy fail? In this book we find interesting indications. First of all, the jury. What does a jury have to do with adversariality? There he is! As a general rule, the jury gives its verdict without justification, does not justify fault, while the judge in the continental system conducts proceedings, having in the back of his head how he makes the justification and how this justification will be maintained in the context of the Article. 424 k.p.k. before the court of appeal. Next: meticulous decisions on guilt as to the facts. One of the first analyses in the Italian system said that evidence does not grow from itself in the criminal process, like mushrooms after rain, on files, but requires careful search, reflection, research. Professor Kmiecik pointed out in his opinion that justice should be held in the public interest and in the interests of victims of crime. Senator Lydia Staron is not in the room, but she just mentioned the interests of the victims of crime. I stress: justice should be held in the public interest and in the interests of victims of crime, not in the interests of lawyers representing the accused. So a court that becomes merely a notary confirming or at most correcting the outcome of the negotiations and the fight of the parties is not justice. Justice granted, yes... It was said that the court could actively participate. It is not that the ex officio court was completely excluded. No, he is. But when? Only to a narrow extent where a judgment would threaten gross injustice within the meaning of Article. 440 k.p.k. So, ladies and gentlemen, we agree consciously... High Izbo, consciously agree to a full catalogue of derogations, manipulations, allowing only this one exception, this stream for the judge, art. 440 k.p.k. An Integrity Will Be Dangerful Judge, you can interfere. What the senator said. Based on what you give me on the table, I'll rule. If not, I'm sorry. Perelman said there was no more rape than rape on his conscience. Yeah, that's rape on the judge's conscience. Definitely. And in private conversations with many judges, you can hear such a position. So much for axiological, comparative, statistical issues. Here you go, if there's any more questions... [[But I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u115	No, no, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, by way of exception I've allowed one question, but we're already at the stage of the discussion. Excuse me... [[But I didn't get any... I mean, I got an interesting lecture, which I just...]] Thank you very much, Senator. Excuse me, sir, you may speak in the discussion. [[...should listen...]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. There was time to ask questions. [[But I didn't get an answer!]] I see. Let's get back to the discussion, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u116	Answer... [[Excuse me.]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Answers, Mr. Senator, about the crime data we're going to hand over to the senator in writing. [[Yes? Thank you.]] I promise. And as far as data on the number of indictments filed and returned are concerned, I can give it to the senator right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Let's get back to the discussion. Senator Klich is the first to speak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the draft amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure was considered at first reading, today we have a second reading, the day after tomorrow, I assume, we will vote on it. It is only 3 days, and it is 3 days in which we are working on such fundamental changes concerning the Polish justice system. It's a little bit like the express pace that was given to work on the D.A.'s law, the surveillance law, the government's acquisition of control over public media. or the Constitutional Court Act. I would like to remind you first of all that this reform, which the Law and Justice wants today, wants to reverse this week, was a reform prepared for six years. It was six years of work, discussion, consultation with expert communities, some of which were in favour of such new rules, and some had doubts. However, the votes over the introduction of the principle of adversariality in the Polish judicial system, in which a reference to what the Minister was just talking about The court is not only a notary, but becomes an arbiter. Arbitrator between two sides, but more than a notary. An arbiter is more than a notary. Parliamentary work on this bill lasted for 6 months. Six months on the one hand, three days on the other hand... So are we well prepared at this moment to discuss, consult, reflect on this fundamental change in the Polish justice system? In my opinion and in my belief in our club No, no, no, no, Therefore, a request was made at the beginning of this meeting to remove this item from the agenda. It's easy to tear something down, it's harder to build. Storm is typical of revolution, building for stability. In this first case, i.e. in revolutionary situations, political will prevails, in the latter case the law prevails. In the first one it is very often that environmental interests, e.g. One political party dominates the common good. And so we read above all the changes contained in the article. 168a and 168b of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which introduce the possibility of procedural use of evidence collected as a result of crime. I'll call it by name, collected by crime. The adversariality and reversal of this principle had already been mentioned before, and I will concentrate on what most upsets public opinion in Poland. Namely, the introduction of the possibility of procedural use of evidence gathered by criminal officers is something that should not happen in a civilized legal system. It's not like you're going back to the rules that the Minister was talking about. It's just a retreat from the rules. Instead of returning to the axiological basis, we have a retreat from this axiological basis, which in practice has been applied by Polish courts in recent years, and which was broken in the years 2005-2007 as part of several, dozens of shameful practices that we remember. So that's what the article introduces. 168a and 168b, that is actually the legalization of those reprehensible practices from 2005-2007. This is a legalization of the actions of those officers who committed crimes to gather evidence against a particular person. This is a situation where an officer stood outside the law. And the question has to be asked whether, in the United States, for many of us, democrats who are the role model, a model of stable democracy in which justice plays a huge role, this would be possible. Oh, no. There is a ban on the use of the fruit of a poisoned tree. Also in Poland I'll say it again. The courts have applied this principle in practice in recent years. Now, if these criminal practices are legalized, the officer will be basically unpunished and the prosecutor will be legalized again. 'Cause we remember what's in the D.A.'s office bill. The Minister of Justice will not be liable for illegal activities, since the Minister of Justice will be able to release him from this responsibility, even from disciplinary responsibility, by referring to a general clause of important social interest. This law in this thread, concerning the use of criminal evidence, should be read together with the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the Surveillance Act, because this law in this thread concerns obtaining evidence from illegal wiretapping, from so-called. set-up. That's why on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I'm asking you to reject it. We believe that a good law is a good law and that every possible act is a bad law. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u119	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Mrs. Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senators! I'm going to refer to what I wanted to say at the outset, and what you didn't allow me to say to the marshal. I would like to say that this is not just my invention that I protest so violently against the legislative procedure that we are applying in the Seym and the Senate. I would like to say that I would like to refer to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which, as we know, the Venice Commission has asked us to respect, which, in its opinion, clearly referred to procedures in the Seym and the Senate to a very large extent, e.g. to the right of senators or Members to read the Act. I don't know if you've all seen this bill, because it's only recently appeared on the shelf. We couldn't get to know her. We found out today that we were going to investigate her. Therefore, only part of the senators, i.e. The senators who had the privilege of working in the committees that dealt with it were able to learn all about it. I think it's... In this case, there's not even emotion anymore, just hands falling down. It's not just about the most important tribunals in our country. In its opinion, the National Judicial Council also pointed out that serious reservations were raised by the way and the way in which legislative work was carried out. It also refers to the fact that such legislative work should be preceded by the position of the Committee on the Codification of Criminal Law. This is the first time this committee's opinion was not based, but it was brought to us by a really bad bill on our knees. I'd like to protest it. I'm doing it again. I find this ridiculous. I would like to appeal to our marshal to allow us to work in the Senate and to make sure that nothing burns, no matter where we are in haste, can be discussed at least a week after the next sitting so that we can get to know them and think about them. These issues are not easy, and this is an extremely complicated law, which requires the opinion of the environment. This is a law to which some organizations have prepared opinions on their knees quickly, and they have referred to its content. These opinions are negative. This is where it was referred to as making things easier for the courts. No, I have a negative opinion on this case from the National Judicial Council, ladies and gentlemen. You can argue whether it's a system or another system. I was a little amusing listening to the Minister's statement. I wonder if Mr Gowin listened to these arguments. It's kind of interesting to me, because I'm reminding you who's been preparing this bill. But it might just be a little funny, by the way. As far as this bill is concerned, I would like to refer to one more matter, just like Senator Klich and, like this wonderfully, you have presented Senator Zientarski here in substance by proposing minority proposals. I'm talking about the so-called. the fruit of the poisoned tree and that's all we're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, the examples that were given today in the discussion were not always hit. I believe that the principle of non-acceptance in the process of so-called. The fruit of a poisoned tree stands on the side of a grey citizen, one who may be subjected to pressure, manipulation, mining arrest, etc., but also to bad procedures. After all, this is not about which power was doing at which stage, but there were such cases that for example. The police stopped by the wrong apartment and put everyone on the floor. It just happens. This principle, which is very often applied in the world, is about to make a citizen free of such pressures and is also about to make the judicial authorities, the prosecutor's office or the police feel that the citizen, as it were against his will, should not be driven into some sort of situation and some kind of oppression. So that this is outrageous, and I'm gonna be here... I believe that this law is prepared hurriedly and, unfortunately, what I must say, probably in order for us to continue towards the police-procurator state, not the rule of law and the courts. So that I will, of course, vote against this bill. I would very much like to appeal to the Senators of Law and Justice, so that at least this amendment we have tabled regarding the fruit of a poisoned tree... may at least be corrected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u121	Thank you, Senator. But I would like to inform you that no amendments were made during the discussion. [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej: This was earlier.]] I'd like the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's my pleasure to speak twice today about change... We talked about criminal law before. I listened to my fellow senators and called on them, as they said then, that we were following the best Western patterns, so now they adopted the same measure and that they should follow the same pattern. I have a complaint with the Minister about this presentation. Minister, I'm sure you have, even though you're a relatively young man, a much deeper knowledge of the justice system than you've shown her here. You didn't tell your fellow senators. Unless you don't know it because you're not in practice. That so far the criminal trial has looked very often in the same way that the prosecutor brought any indictment on the basis of a "we'll see." You either don't know it or you don't want to say it. Unfortunately, Senator Silence isn't here because he would confirm what I'm saying right now. Every practice that's been in the O.R. knows that. He supported the prosecutor's indictment most often or very often not knowing the case, which was designated on the basis that he was to sit there and support it. So the whole model... Everything was on trial. And now, if we break down those accents differently, it's gonna sound completely different. The court was simply allowed into such a system by the D.A.'s office that he had to do everything for this D.A.'s office. The idea that was born was to relieve this court and force the D.A.'s office to properly prepare the charges. The minimum level of integrity on your part would be to say that in the data you use, in some part of it, you may not know what part of it is reflected precisely in the fact that it is necessary to prepare a different indictment at the moment. You haven't stuttered about it. And I blame you because I think you know that. The paradox that I have to argue with you is that in this House I already had to argue with a similarly young and similarly confident minister, Deputy Prime Minister Gowin, namely Rabbit Minister, who came here and with equally ruthless, non-acceptable self-confidence, spoke exactly the opposite, using as a professor of law, lecturer and scientist, equally reliable, deep analyses. The paradox is that I have to say it now is that I was. And there's a record for that. It is quite skeptical of the idea in question. But, as I have stressed, I am accusing the above-mentioned act of arrogance of power, on the basis that you are reversing the reform that has been prepared for many, many years, without even trying to see whether it can work. Or maybe the inheritance is caused by something else. Is she speeding up the procedure? Because you haven't said a half a word here about whether or not you've analyzed the cases that have entered the courts. Or you don't have that kind of data. What would be an unreliability to come here, to us, without them? Or you don't want to reveal them. Because the question is this. What we're talking about has been working for eight or nine months. In the case of cases which have entered the court, has there been an acceleration or not? I didn't get that kind of information. I'd like to receive it. And the last problem But the last one in English, that is, the most important one, is that this reform and that you speak only about adversariality, giving an interesting example of Italian... You'd still have to explain why there's no mob here, and there it is. Maybe there are other conditions. Because it's not exactly the best example to apply two legal systems. Just as it is not known whether you can compare fantastic results related to the introduction of a crown witness in Poland to how such a solution works in the United States. You're comparing the system in France, and you say you're adversarial... excuse me: inquisition. And you say that's how it works everywhere. But you'd have to take it one step further and say it's there, for example. As great an institution as a forensic judge. Well, how can we compare all this if there's no forensic judge here? What kind of comparison is that? It's the same as Italy's. So I would expect you to take this document and tell the people who are involved in the justice system, the practical ones, why, according to the Ministry, they write about 10 crushing points. And the last thing Senator Klich struck very hard, so I won't repeat it, but just to guarantee... The point is whether this return to the Inquisition and Counter-Traditional Process will help the justice system. Because you are changing this country very early, we will never know exactly what would have happened if we had given the new system a moment to work. Here there may be differences in assessment, in predictions, that is entitled. And in this respect, I cannot have any objections to the Minister and to the Government. In addition to the way it is introduced, which is, as usual, scandalous for a few months, because I will admit that there is a very serious debate in doctrine. I agree. And there are very serious environments, I admit, also in courts, because in the prosecution's office, it is clear that they had very far-reaching doubts. There were also scientists who spoke negatively on this subject. But, Minister, I can say that. And I expected you to say the same thing here in this podium and answer to those who think otherwise. We're talking about something that will touch every citizen. In a few years, we'll be back in this conversation, and you'll eventually... You have to expect someone to come to you and say, well, when the courts were clogged, they're clogged. Because they've been clogged for the last 30 years, that's to prove, and you didn't let the state let us see if this was a new solution to these courts. However, this issue, as I say, is for discussion. I'm sure we could sit down and talk about it. And I'm sure you'd have as good arguments as mine. What's next to what you're bringing in regarding the arrests... I asked you if anything really changed and if there was any more crime. Why are you going back to this barbaric method? And you're not going to tell me that it's used everywhere in Europe, knowing the history of our arrests, which has been going on for 30 years or for 40 years, almost automatic use of these arrests for a long time? Why do you bring back, after so many penalties imposed on the Treasury, for which we all pay, the application of provisional detention? You go back to making sure that the inherent basis for this is a high-punishment threat, and that high-punishment is reduced to a year. Like Mrs. Lydia Staron... Oh, I'm so sorry. The Senator of Law and Justice asked the question: "How is it possible for someone to be in custody for 40 months?" - not quite understanding that it was for the old system. It's you 24 months that reduce it so that it's enough for 12 months when people sit in jail for a year, two years? Well, where's the relevance here, any? What is it suitable for? Why, in a situation where you recently reduced the supervision of the court of wiretapping, do you now allow us to take a step backwards in terms of the possibility of using illegal wiretapping? In fact, the most dangerous thing is everything you haven't said a word about in this room. Those random little things that don't have anything to do with this system, because whether he's adversarial or not, it doesn't have any influence... This is simply the introduction of further, well, little democratic legal solutions that existed before, and the whole discussion is really about the adversarial system, but it's not really here that the dog is buried. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u123	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Michael Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I will argue with the opinions that have been expressed here, that the one criticized by us today and reversed in the bill model, that the return to the previous model, this change was a political consensus. There was no political consensus, there was a heated discussion at committee meetings. The Human Rights Committee, I myself presided over this meeting, was also a discussion in this Chamber, I myself took the floor in defence of the previous, earlier, for decades not only in Poland, but also in many other European countries the model in which the judge sought to establish the truth, and did not remain passive to the greater or lesser activity of the parties in criminal proceedings. It's not about the civil trial, it's different, and Senator Silence rightly emphasized that very clearly. Fortunately, it's not about life anymore, it's about man's freedom, his property rights. I am. And I would like to repeat this once again to the High House, in favour of returning to this previous system, which, contrary to what has come out to some colorful polemistotes, is not an eastern model in a pejorative sense, but is a European model. A model in which the judge is not indifferent to the inability of one side or the other, and above all the model in which the judge is a guarantee that the accused will not be harmed because he has an incompetent defender. Because the assumption was that everyone, even the poor, would have a public defender that he would not be harmed. It must be borne in mind here that not only a helpless public defender, but also a resourceful defender, will often not be able to carry out various difficult evidences, which are costly, and such evidence which are dependent on the conduct of other entities and which behave differently towards a private defender, or otherwise against the majesty of the court. The court simply has When he acts in the majesty of justice Much more opportunities to effectively carry out difficult evidence, expensive evidence. This is perhaps the greatest guarantee of justice, that is the greatest hope with which the accused participates in the trial, that the judge will prove to be just. And if the court is bound by hands, it simply cannot react even when it considers that there is no fair trial. And that's the basic thing. There was a talk here in the senators' speeches about the need for this If we pull a little more, we'll find out if it works well or if it doesn't work well. But what an expensive experiment! We know what the disadvantages and advantages of this earlier model were, and we know what to expect there and what imperfections he has. It was necessary to follow the path of gradual improvement, some compromise between two models, not a violent transition to what we saw in American films, where the judge, behind apology, spins his fingers, and the two sides argue more or less successfully. In the Polish model of criminal law, this is a completely foreign concept. It is very rarely used in the European model. And that is why the return to this concept we had before is a greater guarantee of a fair trial. Of course it would be convenient for the judges... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Sir...]] Maybe it would be... [[Mr. Senator, I'd like to apologize for a moment. Mr. Senator, Mr. Ministers, the senator is speaking...]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Sorry.]] [[There you go.]] Sure, it might be faster, because if the courts would easily return the evidence to complement it, then they would have a bigger processing, and there would be less cases in the courts. But that's not the purpose of the criminal trial. Taking justice is the goal. So I'm not going to repeat a lot of other arguments that came out here to get back into that model that's called It's a little inadequate. The inquisition process, although there is also this element of adversariality. The parties may submit evidence requests, the parties may submit their evidence, the judge shall assess whether they are justified or not, in any event, those parties are not incapacitated, may do something on their own initiative. So we were supposed to... I've always been careful. Even though I'm not a criminal lawyer, And it always seemed to me that this is a certain value and advantage of our model of criminal trial, because there are both elements that give the parties the chance to argue as they can say and do, and there is a judge who makes sure that there is an adequate assessment and an attempt to extract material truth. As far as the other provisions are concerned, I would just like to say one thing, which is also very controversial. It is the question of the admissibility of the evidence which has been obtained in the form of a prohibited act. I've read this recipe many times, art. 168a., and I do not see there total consent for all evidence to be obtained in the act of an unauthorised one. However, I admit that this provision is awkwardly formulated and may cause interpretational difficulties. I therefore allow myself, Mr Marshal, to make an amendment to this article, the text of which reads as follows: "It is unacceptable to carry out and use the evidence obtained for the purposes of criminal proceedings in breach of the provisions on this proceeding or by means of a prohibited act referred to in Article. 1 §1 of the Penal Code, committed in the form of: murder, intentional injury to the health or deprivation of liberty or criminal offence committed by a public officer in connection with the performance of his duties. Here, in this proposed version, are all the same elements that were in the article. 168a, but it is written in a clear way: all that is mentioned here is unacceptable, and it is inadmissible. And that's where it's said clearly. The kind of evidence that was obtained as a result of a breach by a police officer... I apologize to the officer in connection with the performance of his duties. So all these concerns, which would concern a possible violation of the law by state officials, are repealed here at all. It's all in this current version of how you read it well, but it's hard to read it. Therefore, I submit here an amended version, which shows that only in exceptional, explicit cases covered by these provisions, the infringement may be the basis for the acceptance of evidence... or otherwise: evidence obtained in breach of the rules may be permitted. So not everyone can be allowed, because except for the ones that are marked here and, above all, those that are allowed or obtained by violation of official regulations by a public officer. Mr. Marshal, I'm making an amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u125	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator George Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm terribly sorry, but I want to... Because I know the faces of all the gentlemen, but... who do I address directly? The Minister's office? Minister, it's a pleasure to meet you, George Fedorowicz. I will have a short question, because of course I am not a lawyer and such a legal argument as may be conducted by Counselor Pociej or Professor Seweryński, who is an authority, or my dear colleague, Mr Cichoń, I will not conduct, Minister. But I, as you know, represent the majority who need answers to such simple and short questions. I will expect you to answer this question, which has already been raised here several times in the context of the procedure of laws or amendments to laws concerning changes in the law. Why don't you accept You may answer that this is a matter of the Sejm or the Senate. All the comments that are made by judicial organisations, such as like the National Judicial Council or other organisations, as was the case with other laws, lawyers, etc.? Because it's like society gets lost at some point. You are indeed excellent and well-educated young people, but at a certain stage of your knowledge, which then requires experience and imprisonment... And behind these ten remarks, in which you absolutely do not accept this project, there are authorities. Well, if we keep going like this... I do not address you in these words, I address those voters and Poles who are listening to me now as a man who will always pay attention to this as a senator who simply warns. I am at this point in the Senate, I am a member of the opposition, I am not personally attacking anybody, but I warn you that if you treat authority per leg, although maybe I should not use such a word as an art man in the Senate, yet others do not come to mind, in a few years you can meet with such a situation when no one will pay attention to what you say. That is why I leave this moment to myself, Mr. Marshal, if you count me off, to the Minister's answer to this one precise question you have heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u127	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia. There's no senator. Then I'll have a voice. I'm gonna give myself a voice as... Oh, you're Senator Silence. You're welcome. [[I'm so sorry.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As I said as rapporteur, as a single senator, I confirm that I consider this change to be deliberate, especially where the Inquisition-Contradicative Model is restored, because the judge cannot only be an arbiter, in criminal matters he must come to the material truth, because it is not just a value, but a value such as human freedom. Even man's life used to be that value in a criminal trial, at a time when there was still a death penalty. Fortunately, there is no penalty today, but human freedom is often at stake in the criminal trial. Therefore, this case cannot be left just a free intellectual game of two parties, i.e. On the one hand, the prosecutor, on the other hand, the lawyer, only there has to be a judge This should also be the crowning of the career of the legal profession, which unfortunately does not exist and which can be regretted. And he should judge by reaching the material truth. Current regulation of the Art. 167 embarrasses him, assuming that he should only be an arbitrators and should not in principle be allowed to accept evidence of his own motion. As the Minister emphasized, there is a kind of rape on the judge's conscience. For what will a judge do, who sees that specific evidence should be allowed, carried out, but the law forbids it? After all, such a judge feels humiliated and violated in his conscience. Therefore, we are restoring something that is a normal principle: the judge should rule by law and according to his conscience there can be no conflict between the absurd law and the judge's conscience. And this regulation from the article. 167 has led to absurdity and to the fact that the accused was the object of a game of its kind that would be played in court, the games between the prosecutor and the lawyer. That is why, in general, I am in favour of these solutions. However, I stress my critical remarks on the content of the article. 168a. I am pleased that Senator Seweryński has prepared this proposal of amendment with clarity and logic worthy of the professor, for which I am fully in favour. In fact, an amendment should be adopted which, on the one hand, precludes the possibility of allowing evidence carried out in breach of the basic personal property of a person, such as his life, health, dignity, etc., or by criminal acts carried out by public officials, but at the same time allows the evidence obtained to be carried out openly. With violations of goods of lesser value, that is, a situation where the conflict between the need to establish material truth, especially in matters of very complicated and dragonfly, concerning immense values, such as. human life, terrorism or any other kind of... Well, there's gonna be a little less value here on the line. But that's how it's accepted all over the world. I would also like to say that the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg also accepts the admissibility of carrying out evidence and factual findings which, as it is said, sometimes come as the fruit of a poisoned tree from some activities that are not fully legal. Such standards are also adopted at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. But as I said, quoting Senator Andrzejewski's statement that it is better to be the enemy of good, I have some suggestions that seem to me to be a slightly better solution to some things, sometimes even by returning to the existing legal situation. I am referring to those regulations which concern the protection of the human rights of the State, in this case by the justice system, because I am always on the side of the weaker, in this case on the side of people who are wrongly, for example. They've been arrested or convicted. Since there are regulations in the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is a separate chapter to this issue, which concerns these claims, I do not see any reason why we should restrict these rights. And that will happen if we reduce the limitation period for the recovery of these claims from 2 years, as it is now, to 1 year. As I said briefly, a man who is deprived of freedom often suffers such a terrible trauma that, when he is released, he sometimes has to treat himself psychiatricly. Before he recovers and before he makes any decision to talk about it, to go to his lawyer, to consult, to consider whether to bring an action or to bring... I'm sorry, the complaint, because it's in criminal proceedings, that, ladies and gentlemen, this year will pass. There were situations that lasted a year, because in the past there was a regulation that provided for an annual statute of limitations. We extended it to two years, and I think it was a good extension because it was part of the reality of life that we're seeing. Especially we as lawyers see in what states In the end, they were acquitted and now want to pursue their rights. This would also fit into the standard art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 the European Convention on Human Rights, which in such cases provides for the right to fair compensation and redress. I fear that reducing the limitation by one year could be treated, among others. by the Court, as an illusory law, because it is too short a period. The next issue also concerns the defence of human rights and is related to Article. 80a, which is proposed here to be removed, because in fact an institution of public defender was introduced out of office at the request of the accused. In the meantime, I'm afraid we've gone too far in the other direction, on the basis of a reflection with ricochet, because we're proposing a deletion at all. I think we need to go back to the standard that comes from the article. 6 The European Convention on Human Rights, therefore I propose to amend the article. 80a, so as to ensure that, at the request of the defendant who does not have sufficient financial resources for the choice of lawyer, the President of the Court, the judge or the referee appoints a defender of his own motion, if required by the good of justice. Then we will not meet with the charge, even of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, that this standard art. 6 is not kept. I am also in favour of introducing a ban on detention, as it was before, if there is a threat of punishment of up to 2 years imprisonment. Ladies and gentlemen, the change for a period of up to 1 year will constitute an unnecessary opening of the gate to the use of detentions where there is a relatively low social harm to the act, because such offences at risk of punishment up to 1 year are very few, and the penalty of up to 2 years is a little more. It seems to me that human freedom is too much value to accept such a consensus here and give the possibility to use detention in matters of really relatively small weight. That's it. I have prepared all these in the form of written amendments and allow myself to submit them. I am also joining the amendment tabled by Senator Lydia Staron. That's what I was talking about earlier. Namely, the article should be amended. 49 §1 by establishing that the victim is any person whose legal interests have been violated or threatened by the offence. The point is to eliminate this phrase, that it is to be violated directly, because the practice of the prosecution so far has shown that it is so interpreted that people who have been wronged because of false testimony or for example. Forgery of documents is not allowed as parties to proceedings because it is claimed that in the first case the justice system is being wronged, and in the second case, an institution which has been issued a false document. This, of course, leads to injustice, even absurdity, which is why this must be eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u129	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have spoken as a representative of minorities, and now I would like to say a few more words already as a senator, who also has his thoughts, abstracting from the situation in committee, and the arguments that have been made in committee, although I think that this argument has also been made. Ladies and gentlemen, when asked about this and at committee meetings, and in plenary, Minister Królikowski, who is conducting this bill, which we are reversing today, said it very clearly and honestly, and Professor Hofmański, and Professor Zabłocki That there would be a problem at first. It is diagnosed in other countries where an adversarial system was introduced. Well, at the beginning of the period, more acquittals or many acquittals will be expected, but this curve will decrease until it reaches... It's also very important, but it takes time. Courts and participants in proceedings, i.e. prosecutors and defenders. I think that this is an argument that... now that Minister Ziobro is omnipotent about the prosecution and the justice system at all, so that there are no charges that, please, the courts simply begin to acquit... Ladies and gentlemen, this was anticipated. Once again, it takes time for this system to start. normal functioning. It's like a pendulum that goes up, and then... this curve's going to be normal when it comes to percentage of acquittal; this percentage is always on some level. You cannot, as I said earlier as a representative of minorities, after a short period, very short, ladies and gentlemen... I know what practice looks like. It came into force on July 1st. July and August this is vacation time. The judges could have done it in September, October. Most normal cases, if there was no consensus, had no right to end. If we were trials, often big processes, we'd end up in a few months... This is abstraction. We are now retreating from this so thoughtful, so prepared by the authorities of the project, which undoubtedly goes towards strengthening the rule of law, but also human rights. Both the defendant and the victim. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue that... the prosecutors may have, may be the judicial opinion, but the organs are completely independent, as I mentioned, of the Helsinki Foundation, which provides for certain problems that a human rights expert loyally spoke about, Senator Cichoń... 'Cause it's art. 6 of the Convention on Human Rights can be seriously threatened, to say the least. And the point is, we don't have to grow, so to speak, backwards. There's a paradigm of western law. I'm not saying that it's Anglo-Saxon, it's western, and it's the paradigm that was used in the Soviet state, about which the trial was said to be a solemn form of approval of the indictment. That was the role of the trial, that was the role of the court. He was to approve the indictment and possibly help the prosecutor with his evidence initiative to confirm this decision. There's another situation here. Here, giving everyone the right to defend themselves, to defend themselves, to defend themselves in the context of adversariality, we are equal opportunities and indeed defending the standards of the European Convention on Human Rights. And there is no doubt about that. Again, the ban on the fruit of a poisoned tree And this is also clearly written in the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, which I encourage you to read... It clearly says that it is not an absolute prohibition that this prohibition is not so broad. But of course you can't accept... There is an example of provocation or so-called. controlled purchases. It's about situations where there's no slightest evidence that we're dealing with a person who, for example, is. takes bribes, refers to influences, etc., etc. And then creating a situation... We know what case this is about. And in this legal state, the decision would have to be completely different. Well, you can't approve, and you can't say that this kind of path is right. Absolutely not. But, of course, care for the safety of citizens in times of terrorism is completely understandable. Therefore, there is a follow-up agreement that some evidence must be carried out immediately in order not to lose evidence. It's perfectly clear. But, ladies and gentlemen, such a retreat, and yet at such a rapid pace that it will actually not be possible again to properly get acquainted, as I said, and to print legal acts, codes, etc., etc... Well, that's totally contempt for the justice system. That's gonna bring chaos. And if, indeed, years later, it would turn out that the system does not work, then it would be possible to think about it. But with authority, of course. Let us not be afraid, ladies and gentlemen, of the authorities that represent us. I am talking about Professor Hofmanski, who was the leader of these solutions as part of the work of the codification committee. And then we could say, if we really, after years, were to deal with certain negative phenomena, if the prosecution didn't adapt, which I doubt... Because change, even mentality, takes time. Then, in good time, with proper preparation, changes could be made. But not in such a form, not in such a way, not in such content, not at such a time and not with such content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u131	Thank you, Senator. Now I'm gonna give myself the floor as a senator. Minister! Dear Senators! Last year we witnessed this, I would say, the Copenhagen coup in a criminal procedure. It took several years to prepare for this. Here too, in discussions in the Senate, in parliament, many senators, and regardless of their party affiliation, expressed certain doubts, asked questions, etc. After 7 months, a new government comes into power and reverses all of this. So, it's like a fennel coup again, but it's the other way around. And at the same time, the bill is to enter into force without a vacathio legis. So there's not even a month left for the courts to prepare for this. But if there are amendments to this law, it will not be a mere return to what was, because if these amendments pass, it will be a different legal situation. Well, I think it's a bad decision. It could be done after about 2 years, after checking how these changes last year work And it takes at least two years to do that. And here, after seven months, this whole legal procedure is changing completely as far as the criminal code is concerned. But what I'm trying to say is that I see a great deal of consequence here, and some legal compatibility in the laws that are being processed, in this next bill. A month ago, we were investigating the D.A.'s Attorney General's Act. And there, Minister Ziobro, who is also responsible for this present law, wrote down the principle that if the prosecutor acted in violation of the law in the public or social interest, he would not be subject to any penalty. So if he's responsible for illegal wiretap and previews or police provocation... And the law prohibits such an initiative from law enforcement, there is a clear ban. But what does this current law provide for in the event of a breach of the law in this type of operation? The fact that such evidence or evidence can be allowed, and this will concern this type of situation: illegal wiretap or preview, police provocation. True, there are amendments here which would slightly improve this, but I would like to say here and show that this provision introduced in the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is in line with the provision which is being introduced into this Act today. So there's a consequence, but there's a consequence going the wrong way. That is why I will vote against this law, just as I voted against that law a month ago. Thank you very much. And let me inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... No, before I inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Alexander Pociej. And I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled legislative proposals in writing by Senators Michał Seweryński and Zbigniew Cichoń. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The text of the Act is contained in print No 92 and the report of the Commission In print No 92 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee. [[Is it okay to make a formal case?]] You're welcome, from the spot. [[From where?]] Yeah, yeah. [[I'm on it, Mr. Marshal, I don't have that kind of experience...]] But I'm about to... [[I asked the Minister questions and asked him for an answer.]] I know what's going on. [[Exactly. Do I get that answer?]] No, the Minister may have responded, but... the question of the Minister was possible a little earlier. [[I understand. Thank you very much.]] There's no way that's gonna happen now. [[Okay, thank you, I take it back...]] Thank you very much. [[I could use an answer, by the way.]] I would like the floor of the rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u132	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. I'd like to say that all the documents have come in from the Sejm in accordance with the regulations, so that Although this law is single-card, we had the opportunity to read the material and all the opinions on it. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Act is to fully align its provisions with the content of Directive 2010/13/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, and to take into account the comments which the European Commission has made in assessing the correctness of the implementation of that Directive. Article so far in force. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4th Act on Radio and Television empowers the National Council of Radio and Television to define, by regulation, lower participation in the television programme of broadcasts originally produced in Polish and European broadcasts and in the radio program of verbal and musical works performed in Polish for programmes distributed exclusively in ICT systems. Therefore, the National Council in its Regulation of 6 December 2012 identified a lower share in the TV programme of programmes originally produced in Polish and European programmes and in the radio programme of verbal and musical works performed in Polish for programmes distributed exclusively in ICT systems. The European Commission questioned this way of establishing the acceptable lower share of European programmes in specialised programmes which are only available on the Internet. The amendment is intended to take into account the Commission's expectations that exemptions from such obligations will be made on a case-by-case basis by decisions of the National Radio and Television Council, not by an act of general character, which is a regulation of the National Radio and Television Council. So it's not a general act, it's an administrative decision on a case-by-case basis. And that's pretty much what this change is all about. I would like to inform you that the draft law has been developed in cooperation with the National Radio and Television Council, which, as a constitutional body competent in matters of Radio and Television, has a broad knowledge of the problems encountered in the media services market. During the drafting of the bill, his concept was consulted with the Ministry of Culture. The National Council also consulted representatives of the largest Polish broadcasters. I would like to inform you that this law does not have any implications for the state budget. The legislator's opinion on this act was positive. The Senate committee's opinion was also positive. No amendments were made to this law during the debate in the Sejm. The Committee on Culture also delivered a positive opinion at its meeting. In fact, I can say that there was no controversy about this. And that's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u133	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any requests for questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary rights. Would Minister Krzysztof Czabański like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: No, thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you, Minister. Minister Krzysztof Luft He doesn't want to speak either? [[Member of Krzysztof Luft National Radio and Television Council: Thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see any requests for questions. I'm opening a discussion. And I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, ministers. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... Thank you, ministers. [[Which senator?]] Come on, senator. If you want... [[But I thanked you on behalf of the marshal.]] No, I've already thanked you. If you want to continue the discussion, do it somewhere else. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 94 and the report of the Commission In print No 94 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Invited guests! I took part in a discussion of the draft law on amending the Investment Funds Act, which was the subject of the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance yesterday. First of all, I would like to signal that the bill is urgent in connection with delays in the implementation of European Union directives. These are directives of the EU Council and of the European Parliament. The consequence of the non-adoption of the law may be a request to the Court of Justice to impose a penalty on Poland. The draft law in the main part is the implementation of three technical directives of the European Union, from 2009 to 2013, ordering and securing the operation of investment funds and presenting trends aimed at strengthening the role of capital markets and regulatory simplifications, together with access to transparent security information for participants in these markets. The implementation of these directives is aimed at reducing the risks associated with investment markets and facilitating access to them for retail customers. The European Union Directives aim to distinguish private investment from investment by professional investors and to introduce minimum organisational requirements for alternative investment fund managers, in particular the holding by an alternative investment company of a depositary holding general supervision of the assets of AIFs and to ensure a higher level of security of assets of these entities, together with the interests of investors. The Directives aim, through internal and external supervision principles, to monitor and monitor the systemic risk of entities related to systemic stability and security of investors and other financial market participants. In the case of the proposed bill... In the case of AIFMs provided for in the draft passport, they will be able to manage alternative investment funds based in other Member States and offer AIFs in Member States. During the meeting of the Senate Committee, the Legislative Bureau submitted preliminary thirty-eight written proposals for amendments to the bill. Here important information is that during the process of the bill, on the eve of the meeting of the committee, there was a meeting of the Senate legislature, Mr Zabielski, with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, which resulted in a common position. Therefore, during the committee meeting, the Senators considered the amendments of the Legislative Office after agreement with the Ministry of Finance and some of the written amendments originally submitted before the committee meeting, the legislator pointed out as pointless. Written observations were submitted by the Board of Directors of the Funds and Assets to the contested law. The position of the Chamber at the committee meeting was presented and discussed by its President. The House submitted comments on the sanctions imposed by the Law and resulting from the Directive. During the meeting, an interpretative dispute arose as to the content of the directive setting out the level of penalties imposed. The House took the view that the Directive sets out the maximum possible penalty for the Member State to apply in national legislation. The President of the Chamber therefore proposed to reduce the amount of penalties in the contested law. He also drew attention to the possible consequences of such high penalties, which may result in an unwillingness for persons with qualifications in the bodies and supervisory boards of the Funds. A different interpretation of the directive was presented by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and KNF. During the committee meeting, the representatives of these authorities confirmed that in fact the penalties imposed by the law are too high and inadequate for the size of operators operating on the Polish market, but the European Union directive does not allow them to be reduced. The second issue raised by the President of the Chamber was the level of administrative sanctions imposed by the Act, which are not the result of the European Union Directive. In this respect, a representative of the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Financial Supervision Commission agreed to the further discussion. This discussion will result in amendments being tabled during the proceedings at this meeting. There are amendments that take into account the suggestions made by the Chamber. Subsequently, the representative of the Association of Stock Exchange Investors who was present at a meeting of the committee in the course of the discussion raised the problem of the absence of a limitation period and of the appeal procedure against the decision of the KNF. The chairman of the committee asked the association's representative to make a written amendment proposal. Today, an amendment of the association has been tabled to the chairman of the committee, but in the assessment of the Legislative Office, the amendment proposed by the Association goes beyond the scope of the amendments made by the Senate, i.e. in the original legal act that came to us from the Sejm, there was simply no article which the association at the legislative stage in the Senate proposed to bring. And here's what I'm going to say, the broader context of the case. According to the information that appeared during the committee's meeting, the Ministry is also aware of this problem and the limitation case will be taken into account in other legal acts, but not during the procedure of that law. In addition, the General Data Protection Officer also submitted a written proposal for a law. The amendment concerned the clarification of the concept of contact data in the Act. At the committee meeting, the proposal for an amendment was approved by the Senate legislature and will also be subject to further work, i.e. an amendment to the GIODO proposal has already been prepared. The last issue raised was the revision of the article. 228 of the Act, specifying the fine applied by the KNF. The amendment is also prepared, agreed with the Ministry of Finance and will be the subject of the committee's work. In total, 39 amendments were positive at the committee meeting, 36 of which were amendments by the Legislative Bureau, 2 auto-corrections by the Ministry of Finance and 1 proposed by GIODO. The Commission recommends adopting a law in this form. This meeting is adjourned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u135	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Leszek Skiba like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Allow me to make amendments that arise from the initiative and expectations of the investment fund managers. We had a long discussion during the committee meeting. The point of this discussion has just been summarised by the rapporteur, Senator. We have indeed noticed that these penalties, which are included in the Act, are inadequate to the size of the Polish market. However, their size is more consistent with the scale of activities that are on other European Union markets. We accepted the arguments that were made by investment fund managers. We could actually lead to a situation where these penalties would be too dissuasive for those who are professionally involved in managing investment funds, so it would be difficult to find those willing investment funds who would agree to take risks to supervisory boards After all, for a small amount of money, exposure to penalties of up to PLN 20 million, because EUR 5 million appeared as a maximum penalty ceiling. In response to the expectations of this environment, I make amendments that significantly reduce these penalties, in some cases 10 times. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u137	Thank you, Senator. Before closing the discussion, Senator rapporteur, are there any other amendments? Because I'm about to close the discussion. You were talking about the amendments to the Legislative Bureau. [[These are the corrections.]] [[The amendments are in the report.]] The amendments are here, all right. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act and the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the association banks. The text of the Act is contained in print No 102 and the report of the Commission In print 102 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! The Commission met yesterday, discussed this project, which was recently adopted by the Sejm. It is an urgent initiative, a parliamentary project, a small amendment which allows institutions obliged to pay fees to the Bank Guarantee Fund to bring them instead of bringing them in quarterly instalments on an annual basis. The amendment therefore concerns the amount of the fee to be paid. The aim is to ensure that it corresponds to quarterly volumes and the manner in which this fee is to be paid. This is a small change, due to the position of the European Securities and Markets Authority, which was issued on 25 September last year. So we react very quickly to this position, which could lead to some disruption in the first quarter of the results of financial institutions operating in Poland. The paid contribution, the large contribution would reduce the results and obscure the real image of the balance sheets of these banks, banks, SKOKs, cooperative banks, all obliged entities. The Commission unanimously approved this draft law and recommended that the Senate adopt it without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u139	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any questions to be asked. Thank you again, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No, thank you.]] Good. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Czarnobaj volunteered. Minister, I'd like to speak to the speaker. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have one question, which I asked at the committee meeting, and then I asked for an answer at today's plenary meeting, if possible. It concerns the size of the Banking Guarantee Fund, but above all the amount of money paid in the history of the Banking Guarantee Fund, with particular regard to my sympathy, the amount at which money was paid out in the recent period to rescue the SKOK.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u141	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u142	Thank you very much. That's the question of the amount of money paid to the SKOK. The total value of the funds paid up to 31 December 2015 is about PLN 3 billion. At the same time, it is worth noting that the total value of the funds paid to banks until then is at a similar level, i.e. at the level of about PLN 3 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u143	Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although the bill, as the President said, Senator Bierecki, concerns a simple, technical matter, I would like to say a few words about what concerns the Banking Guarantee Fund, to convey a certain thought and some experience from the previous term of office. It is worth to return to this from time to time of discussion, related to the inclusion under supervision, and what this entails, also under the supervision of the KNF, you can say, and to the safety theme of the savers in the SKOK. I remember that when the issue of including SKOK in the whole system, broadly understood, not only under the supervision of KNF, but also under the supervision of the Bank Guarantee Fund was addressed in the previous term, it was a very emotional discussion, also in a political sense, because it was asked why we were doing something that was important from a political point of view, namely we are doing an assassination on Polish banking institutions. I think this story today... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... [[Yeah, yeah. Excuse me.]] This story today shows that it was a political decision, regardless of what elements of the discussion were cited. I remember today, when Senator Czudowska asked if we were doing it from the point of view of love, whether we were doing it for money, and then she replied to herself that it was difficult to include us in the group of fans of the SKOK system. I would like to say that, from the point of view of this history, the inclusion of SKOK into this system, their inclusion in the Bank Guarantee Fund and the supervision of the KNF, guaranteed the most important thing, namely that 2 million 700 thousand people, if I remember correctly, savers in the SKOK have the same guarantee as any person who saves their money in the bank. It is a guarantee of EUR 100,000. And that's guaranteed. Therefore, it is so important that the Polish banking system, which is considered to be one of the safest in Europe... Including all financial institutions, including SKOK, is a very good pull. I hope that those who said it was an assassination of Polish financial companies today think that it was not. Those who are still clients of the SKOK have the most important thing to do with the Banking Guarantee Fund. I asked at the committee meeting, and the minister also... In the entire history of the protection of citizens, Poles saving in banks have been paid about 3 billion for all kinds of projects saving the banking system. What's been going on in the last few years, especially in the last year... As the Minister said, by 31 December 2015, about PLN 3 billion had been spent on the rescue of deposits that were placed in the SKOK. This reminds us of the importance of the security of the entire banking system as part of the Bank's Guarantee Fund. I don't think anybody's going to say today that they should be under the supervision of the KNF and under the banking influence of the Guarantee Fund... And one more element that came up during the discussion. Senator Bierecki may correct me if I make a mistake... When we were discussing the security of the JOKE, the JOKE had, as I recall correctly, 400 million to be rescued if any of the JCCs were in a difficult situation. This shows that if it had not been for KNF supervision and cooperation with the Bank Guarantee Fund, these difficulties would have been much, much bigger than they are today. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, this is a reminder of the role the Bank Guarantee Fund plays in our banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u145	Thank you, Senator. Now I'd like to speak. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u146	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address a certain gentleman, a young man who, after Mass in Gdansk, turned to me with the pretensions that we, including the guarantees of the Bank Guarantee Fund, create an atmosphere that aims to destroy these cooperative cash registers. I tried to explain to him that this is not the case, that it gives guarantees to citizens like him who have made their savings in SKOK and that without this guarantee in the event of bankruptcy they may lose this money. I'll admit it was an unpleasant conversation, he didn't accept my arguments. I was sure that he was guided by information that he received from one source. It wasn't a good source. It could be said that this was a poisoned source, because if we took it into account, I and most of us would vote against the guarantee of contributions to SKOK, on general terms, i.e. that contributions to EUR 100,000 are guaranteed by the Bank Guarantee Fund, i.e. that the banks guarantee, through their contributions, that the money will not be lost with the collapse of the cooperative fund, the situation after these several failures would be much, much worse. Minister, last year, somewhere in October or November, Vice President of KNF said that the sum already paid was PLN 3 billion 200 million. Then I heard that PLN 3 billion 400 million. So much more than the sum of 3 billion zlotys that you mentioned to the Minister. So I hope that this young man with whom I had this brief discussion will hear what I said. Or at least I'll get him a piece of the discussion I took part in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u148	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! There are so many outstanding SKOK specialists at the Civic Platform Club that I was wondering if I should react to these issues. But since the marshal himself wanted to speak on this matter, I think it's worth seeing things in the right dimensions. The Bank Guarantee Fund and the coverage of deposit guarantees, which are collected by Poles in all financial institutions, deposits, banks or SKOKs, is undoubtedly an important good. And it's a good thing it did. The payments from the Banking Guarantee Fund to which he has been forced in recent months are certainly a great evil. And it was wrong that these measures had to be paid out. Yeah, but if you look... When assessing these events, attention must be paid to the great cause of these payments. The fact that for many years in Poland there were people who used the umbrella of the most important people in Poland, the most important officials in Poland, and who, as former agents of Military Information Services, had not only a license to kill, but also a license to steal. And they used it widely. These people, thanks to the efforts of many people who were not afraid to risk their health or their lives, are now in prison. I hope that the Minister of Prosecutor General will explain the issue of the bankruptcy of SKOK Wołomin or the bankruptcy of the cooperative bank in Wołomin. Because I remember that in the autumn of last year, citizen Zbigniew Ziobro filed a notice to the prosecution on this matter. The explanation of this story, which was also used in the election campaign, in an absolutely disgraceful way, also by those present in the senators' hall, will, I think, be a great shock to the people who are now dressing up as depositors' defenders. I wish you that concussion. It will be a refreshing shock for our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u150	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to speak in the discussion? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll send a few words to the senator. Of course, Mr. Senator, I didn't address it personally to anyone. I know I'm talking here as this private SKOK case specialist who's gonna survive the concussion, that's fine. I want to say yes. I... [[You'll shake less.]] I, Senator, ladies and gentlemen, want to say something and say it again. I think this story... That's what we talked about. And I only talked about it in this context, without falling into the old rule of hitting the table, the scissors will speak. I was just talking about the fact that when as a young senator, in the sense of internship, I was reporting on the Bank Guarantee Fund bill and taking over this fund as a SKOK... I reminded you of the atmosphere of this discussion. I wasn't talking about who and when he used something, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, in the election campaign, because that's history. And you can go back to her and read who used the arguments, Mr. Senator. However, I would like to say this again, without being rhetorical, that someone here is threatening someone that Mr. Ziebro is refreshingly... We know that, and you don't have to assure us that D.D.A. Ziobro will be practicing a refreshing shock on us. I'm aware of that. Thank you for that information. [[We're looking forward to it.]] Well, we're looking forward to it. We humbly accept it and look forward to this refreshing shock. Once again, I just want to point out what you said to the marshal that, in my opinion, the Bank Guarantee Fund... When as a young senator I presented the bill, I did not yet understand the mechanism... why so much, I will say, almost hate is towards my person who wants so well; after all, I want those people who save in SKOK to introduce into the Polish system of protection. I figured it out later. Today I also want to assure you: Mr. Senator, I am nothing else. Neither then nor now did I mean politically. I'm telling you again, it's okay. And I think those who ripped their robes, speaking out of this bleacher, and said they shouldn't do it, because it's an assassination. on the Polish company, on Polish citizens, etc., the assassination of Polish... Well, we can get back to this discussion. I would like to say this: it is good that today's discussion of the Bank Guarantee Fund is so calm, because it is a really important pillar of security for all citizens who save whether it's in SKOK or in other banks. And history has shown that at the level of 3 billion they were needed, as if in the first stage, which lasted 23 years, and needed 3 billion in 2 years of short existence of SKOK under supervision of KNF. That's all I wanted to say, Senator, and that's it. I don't feel like a SKOK case specialist... [[Good.]] ...but I do know one thing. It is good that SKOK has been included in the general principles of the Polish banking system, which, as I said, is considered, according to what I read, to be one of the safer, better. Let's keep it that way forever. And thank you for your warning, Senator. We accept. We're already starting to get scared. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u152	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any calls. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. There are no speeches for protocol, right? Nor do we have legislative proposals. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation. The text is contained in print No 101 and the committee's report in print No 101 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear Minister, I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, the report of the meeting held yesterday, on the Parliamentary Law on the amendment of the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation, contained in Senate Print No 101. The draft was received by the Sejm on 12 February 2015 and was sent to the committee for its first reading on 24 February 2015. The bill was passed on March 11th. She's been in the Senate this week. We want to meet our long-standing needs, make these long-awaited changes as soon as possible, and hence our rapid procession. The basic objective of the amendments to the laws is to provide financial assistance to national parks and local government units by introducing the possibility of allocating funds from the forestry fund created in the State Forest Farm. These measures will be transferred to nature conservation in forests implemented by forest management methods and to support national parks in their actions on infrastructure, real estate buy-back As well as supporting local government units in financing forest equipment plans. The purpose of this Forests Act is to create the possibility for the national forestry programme to be embedded in the national legal order and to enable the Minister responsible for environmental affairs to take appropriate action. The idea of national forest programmes was created in 1992 with the concept of sustainable and sustainable development at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. National forest programmes were to be a forest policy tool based on the participation, partnership and cooperation of all stakeholders in the country in the natural resources of the forests. Most countries have adapted in this respect to the recommendations of the FAO and other international organisations dealing with forestry, indicating national forestry programmes as documents raising the profile of forestry in general development strategies. In Poland, such a programme has not yet been developed, among others. because of the lack of legal basis. The draft law tabled by the group of Members responds to the problems raised by the elderly on several occasions, as well as the expectations of national parks. The delays in drawing up basic documents relating to the forest economy have adversely affected its state. The proposed changes to the Forest Law and the Nature Conservation Act will allow, as I said earlier, the use of forest fund funds to draw up simplified plans for forest equipment for forests not owned by the State Treasury, belonging to natural persons and communities, which will allow the elders to remove the arrears in this area. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 1 point (2) (a) c the second indent will support the elderly, who are the statutory forest management authorities in forests not owned by the State Treasury, art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2. According to Art. Paragraph 7 1 The law on forests permanently sustainable forest management in forests not owned by the State Treasury is carried out according to a simplified plan for the installation of the forest. That's why it's so important. As of 31 December 2014, only 71.5% such forests shall have documentation of the facilities. The existing arrears have a negative impact on the quality of the economy in these forests. Currently, forest funds, which constitute charges, penalties and charges related to the exclusion of forest land production and premature logging, could only be used for research and forest management tasks in forests owned by parks. In addition to research, national parks carry out part of their primary activities in forest areas through forest management methods. In order to meet our needs, we are able to make greater use of the forest fund funds on the basis of the detailed regulations contained in the Forest Act. The proposed law also supports national parks by extending the funding possibilities for their specific activities, including the creation of infrastructure and the purchase of real estate on land within the boundaries of parks. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Points 1 and 2 of the Act in question have been amended. 57 and Article 57 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 58 Forests Act in the section on the boards of national parks, which since 18 August 2012 had been in conflict with the current legal situation, as since 2012 parks have acquired the right to use perpetual real estate which had previously been given to them by the permanent management. We are changing this order in the wrong legal system so far. National parks as state legal entities and the highest form of protection in Poland in recent years have not had sufficient financial resources to carry out their tasks. The changes found in the parliamentary bill meet these expectations. At its meeting, the Environment Commission gave a positive opinion on the draft law and proposes a resolution, i.e. the adoption of a law on the amendment of the Forest Law and the Nature Conservation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u154	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Senator, I have a question. I suppose this is a project that does not cause any controversy, but, I believe, there will be further work because there are very general regulations on the forest fund. Well, I guess And I have spoken to the Minister here, and there will be further work to be done, as a result of which there will be detailed rules on the allocation of funds from that forestry fund. Because, I presume, the needs of individual counties are very diverse, but also the forest economy is very diverse in terms of the entire territory of the Polish state. What I'm particularly interested in Because I come from the voivodship, which in 50% It's forested. This is whether this level of forestation will also have an impact on the distribution of forest funds, especially where this economy will be more intensively managed. Because, I presume, we can expect that these voivodships, in which this economy will be intensively, lively, these regions of the Polish state, the transfer of funds from the forest fund will be more powerful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u156	I think that this question will be answered in detail by Minister Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski. But I'm still in addition to what I'm saying... I forgot one thing, but it's an extremely important thread. Namely about the National Council for Nature Protection. So far, the National Council for Nature Protection has had 40 members. It was not possible to resign from membership of the Council, nor was it possible after the death of a member of the Council to elect another person to replace it. It was therefore necessary to clarify the provisions concerning the National Council for Nature Protection as soon as possible. And right now in the article. 96 of these changes have been written down. I'll ask the Minister for these financial details. If the Marshal permits, in the next stage, the Minister will explain these dilemmas relating to financing, because these are the details managed by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u157	But we are still at the questioning stage for the rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask our rapporteur a question? [[No questions. Thank you.]] I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? To represent the government... Welcome to Minister Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski. Welcome, Minister, and welcome. I understand your senator's question has been referred to you. But we begin with the question of whether you wish to speak on the bill under consideration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u158	Yes, of course. I'll put it together in a way. Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! This is a parliamentary project, but it fits very well into the actions that are planned in the General Directorate of State Forests. The General Directorate of State Forests has been subsidising national parks for some time, but it finances them to a very small extent in terms of scope. Because as far as the financial scope is concerned, last year she financed national parks with the amount of PLN 23 million. The Forest Act does not currently provide more funding for parks, which is why we are pleased with the proposed amendment to the Forest Act, because it will also provide the possibility to finance other projects in national parks and outside national parks. Although State Forests, as we know, are covered by a tribute they have to pay to the State Treasury, they are open to subsidising both national parks and other land which do not constitute State Treasury ownership, e.g. The woods will be eligible for funding. With regard to the mechanism of distribution and allocation of funds, both in the case of old age, i.e. the financing of simplified plans for the installation of forests and national parks, the Director-General of State Forests will draw up these rules, all of which will be included in the management of the Director-General. What will this mechanism be, at this stage? It's hard for me to say. I think there's gonna have to be a real reconnaissance on needs first. That's what you asked the senator about. The needs of the various voivodships, the possibilities of forestation in the various voivodships... I would just like to mention that, for the moment, nearly 30% of forests not owned by the State Treasury do not have simplified plans to organize the forest. This means that the owners of these forests have, so to speak, a limited right to use their own land. Because if there are no plans, it is more difficult to obtain wood from such a forest and therefore to use it on a sustainable basis. And drawing up these simplified plans of the forest equipment is the responsibility of the ancients. As regards other changes, it should be stressed that some of the money we are talking about here, from which national parks will be co-financed, will be used to buy land in national parks. National parks are currently facing some difficulties in carrying out protective tasks because they cannot carry out protective tasks on land which do not constitute their property, and often these are natural, valuable land, and there are species of plants and natural animals. Buying out these land will be in plus, in general, for active nature conservation. I will just say that in 2015 national parks bought 840 hectares of land and in 2016 they showed the validity of buying more than a thousand hectares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u159	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Slugocki first, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u160	Thank you very much. Minister, I have this question, but I will continue... I agree with you that inventory will be the starting point for building this program, but you will admit that the proceeds to the forest fund will probably also be This is the result of an analysis of the provisions of the Act And now the question is: will there be any relationship between running forest management in a given part of the Polish country and... [[Getting the money.]] Yes. ...and in fact then spending this money from the forest fund in this, not another place of the Polish state. That's the first question. The second is about parks. What is the source of the purchase, from whose hands de facto speaking so colloquial, the national parks buy this land? Whether these are, I don't know, local government units, or And what is the structure of this land? In fact, it's private, you mean individuals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u161	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u162	National parks buy land on their territory from private individuals. There are some acquisitions from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, but rather less so at the moment. As regards these issues, which you mentioned earlier, the financing of deforestation, as I say, is a parliamentary project and we are not fully able to say how it will work at the moment. As I told you just now, the area of the forest in a given region does not translate into the possibility of forestation. Very many factors are at stake here, in the case of natural areas, environmental impact assessment in certain areas. So it's very complicated. I'm sure this money will be distributed as needed and it will be done fairly and transparently. That's what I can say today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u163	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask more? [[Me later, Mr. Marshal. I want to keep the sequence.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u164	Minister, this legislative initiative is probably linked to a conflict around one of the national parks. Yes or no? [[No, no, that's not it at all.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: No.]] No? Well, it's not up to date... I'm asking because you, Minister, should know that, have more knowledge than I do. So it's not related to the conflict around the Białowieża National Park, which was. Good. Then I want to ask you another question. Since there was information that the Białowieża National Park or the forests around the Białowieża National Park are to be divided into 3 parts, I would like to know on what basis this division will take place in 3 parts, which will be 3 parts or 2 parts. How is this division to take place? According to the destruction of the trees by the gradation of the bark, is this going to be some other division? It's about these cuts associated with the rootworm gradation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u165	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u166	I mean, it's not that simple. Mr Marshal talks about the Minister's statement, who has proposed a solution so that it can be managed in a sustainable manner in this area. Here the exit must be an in-depth inventory of this area. In the Białowieża Forest there is a situation that we have practically all forms of nature conservation that occur in the world. We have UNESCO heritage, a diploma from Europe, we have Nature 2000, nature reserves, etc. And these forms of nature conservation require different actions in terms of biodiversity that occurs on their territory. The natural inventory, which was made for the plan of protective tasks of this area, was done five years ago, before what happened next. Therefore, this inventory needs to be repeated in depth and only then will it be possible to separate areas that will be actively used, i.e. areas where nature conservation will be carried out actively, and those areas where passive protection will be carried out. Today I can't do it, we'll work on it. [[Minister, the active security you're talking about is cutting? Yes or no?]] [[No!]] No, no. [[Good.]] No, Mr. Marshal, active security... Let me give you an example. One of the natural habitats for which the Natura 2000 site was created is the oak light. It is an oak forest where there is no lining, and there is a very, very rich fleece in the form of many species of herbal plants. It is one of the richest plant communities in Poland. In order to maintain this collection, you need to cut out all kinds of roots, shrubs and certain kinds of grasses that appear in the bottom of this forest. This is an anthropogenic cluster. It was created by active sustainable use, because it was carried out there cattle grazing. If we stop this, there will be grabs, actually in most of the lobes of this cluster in this area already this grave enters and shades. For this reason, the fleece is changing, there is no priority habitat and many priority plant species, and the Commission will account for it. Active protection is needed for such areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u167	Mr. Marshal, do you have another question? [[No, thank you.]] In order, Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u168	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the State Forests racket and the current 2%. Did this cause some serious disruption of the state forest budget and is there a situation under consideration where we could move away from this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u169	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u170	I'm sure the condition of the State Forests is quite different than if what you called it wasn't a racket. Then the funding of national parks could certainly be allocated a larger amount. As far as leaving this is concerned, it's not up to me to decide. I'm not here... These must be government decisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u171	Thank you. Senator Slugocki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think I'm going to ask you a question that you can answer, namely the article. 58 point 2 (3) is the creation of the infrastructure necessary for forest management. I'm going back to the wooded areas in Poland with the stubbornness of my maniac. The situation is that where intensive forest management is conducted, of course the State Forests use public roads, including voivodeships, powiats, communes, and often these roads are demoted as a result of heavy wood equipment moving around them. From what I understand, although in this context you will take into account the intensity of your economy, I understand that the measures transferred to construction, the repair of infrastructure damaged by forest management will be in quantities directly proportional to the intensity of your economy. Here's the situation. Mr. Senator was polite to call it a racket. I wouldn't define it that way. Some of the funds went to the municipal and district roads construction program, but please note that later, on the basis of a specific algorithm, these funds went to individual voivodships. Only that the share of different voivodships varies greatly in terms of generating income from forest management. Therefore, I would like to ask you directly, Minister, whether you will take into account that roads are being destroyed mainly in those places of the Polish state where this economy is extremely intense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u173	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u174	Mr. Senator, read this article well. He talks about the infrastructure related to forest management, the implementation of nature conservation objectives through forest management methods, but in the areas of national parks, on land belonging to national parks, it is not extended to foreign land. As far as I know, Director Tomaszewski intends to take some action to cooperate locally, among others. for this purpose, which you were talking about, that is to work with local authorities to make sure that the renovation of certain roads is financed by the State Forests, but on this issue # Like I said # It is important to get a good understanding of financial matters. Anyway, in his conversation with me, he said he was going to cooperate, so to speak, to revive. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u175	Thank you. Senator Blackbay, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two brief questions from your statement, and I have already received some answers. A good tradition was the issue of cooperation between local authorities and the State Forests in terms of infrastructure. I understand that by increasing the fund in some areas, this cooperation will have a measurable effect in the form of a common investment on... Say it in general, I don't expect any details. That's the first thing. The second point, Minister, is that, as Senator Ryszka said, the racket on the Forests. The amounts paid by the Forests to the state cashier could be allocated to some additional tasks that the Forests could perform. Could you tell the Minister what financial condition the State Forests company was in at the end of 2015, and if not... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: No.]] ...I'll ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u177	In writing, of course. That kind of information... I don't want to make a mistake right now, but we've got it prepared. [[I'm not a member of the committee, but if you don't mind my asking... thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u178	Thank you very much. Who wants to ask you a question? [[Me.]] Senator Hare, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u179	Thank you very much. Minister, during the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, we talked about how much it is to expect these funds from the forest fund. You said that in order to run them, there must be an appropriate procedure, which means that regulations must be drawn up. How soon can we expect this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u180	It's not a regulation, but... it's easier because it's about the director-general's orders, which are actually already being prepared. Last year, the State Forests co-financed parks. These arrangements are now... As soon as Director Tomaszewski found out that there was a proposal for a parliamentary draft to amend the Forest Act, he sat down. Forests are already preparing this and it will be very fast because... national parks report projects according to old regulations, which is the regulations of the previous year. I think it's a matter of less than a month, maybe two or three weeks. It has to be done quickly and it's already done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u181	Thank you very much. Who would like to ask a question to a government representative? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ryszka. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u182	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Director! The amendment of the contested law mainly concerns the sharing of money from the forest fund developed by the State Forest Farm so that national parks can use it in nature conservation in forest management as part of so-called combined financing, or for example local authorities can be supported in terms of forest planning. In the latter case, as has already been said, the starosts will be able to apply to the State Forests for the refinancing of the plan for the installation of the forest. It can be added that 30% forests under the responsibility of local authorities do not yet have such plans. The Act also mentions the preparation by the Minister of the National Environment of the Forest Programme and also refers to the State Council for the Conservation of Nature, namely that the Minister may appoint and recall its members. Senator Hare has properly discussed the problem of the absence of one of the members, which is necessary for... the appointment of such a member is necessary for the purposes of the Baltic Sea Conference to be prepared. In general, the law seeks to clarify the basic task of the forest fund, which is to compensate for the shortages in the foresight, the deficiencies arising in the performance of forest management tasks due to the different natural and economic conditions of management, as well as to direct the money to joint ventures of State Forest organizational units, namely research, the creation of infrastructure, the drawing up of plans for forest equipment, for the purchase of land at national parks, as mentioned by the Minister. Changes in the law are very important, especially in terms of what I would like to remind you of, the imposition by the previous government of PO-PSL racket I call it a racket for the State Forest Farm and therefore forbids it from a cumulative profit of several years for development. I will remind you that it was PLN 800 million in 2014 and PLN 800 million in 2015, and since this year it has been 2% on revenue, whether or not profit will be or not. This decision led, I believe, to serious destruction of the State Forest Farm. I don't know if I can say that, but it almost led to financial failure. It is worth recalling that earlier, and precisely in 2011, the same political option, PO-PSL, was going to include the State Forest Forests in the public finance sector, which met with a huge protest. It was collected, let me remind you, 1 million 200 thousand signatures with a motion for a referendum. And the case ended with the silent withdrawal of the coalition ruling from this idea. I would like to remind you that earlier, in the years of the reign of AWS-UW, Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek proposed the creation of the State Forests of the State Treasury Company. Fortunately, this attempt ended in failure, thanks to spontaneous action, a social protest. Again, by the way, all single-member companies of the State Treasury appointed by Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek were privatized first, then sold, often for proverbial gold, and finally destroyed. There is currently no such company on the market. And the forests survived. It is good to remember that they represent a quarter of the country's territory, or 7.5 ha, with wood worth more than PLN 400 billion. Importantly, there are energy resources under the forests: coal, brown coal, shale gas, rich geothermal resources. What a delightful treat for all kinds of health care providers of the Polish economy That's what he was, I'll remind you, the old Leszek Balcerowicz. With regard to the changes to the bill, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Audit Chamber published a critical report on the functioning of the State Forests in the years 2011 and 2013 under the management of the PO-PSL coalition. However, despite critical comments, the financial situation of the State Forests of NIK controllers assessed as stable and good. But in the pro-government media, however, they were hit by foresters, being portrayed as greedy officers who cut down forests to power. In short, it was an attempt to undermine the public's confidence in the institutions of State Forests, which have been managing forests well in Poland for over 90 years. I'm gonna get to the bottom of this. We should defend Polish forests, strive for an unconditional ban on privatisation of State Forests, fight for restrictions on sales to foreigners of our agricultural and forestry land, strengthen the economic enterprise of State Forests and in the future move away from the additional charity that State Forests must pay to the Treasury. I think no one knows the situation of forests and national parks better than foresters. And I would also like to refer here to the loud case of the Białowieża Forest, as in its case large money from the forest fund and others will also be needed. He's dying because of an attack by a huge formation of a printer's barker that destroys trees. This has already led to a change in water relations and therefore certain plant species, including those protected under Natura 2000 are at risk. As we know, environmentalists and some of the media do not agree to any interventions, claiming that the foresters want to carry out a huge and unnecessary logging of trees in the Białowieża Forest. I know that the Ministry of the Environment has established a special staff so that the great cultural heritage of the nation, such as the Białowieża Forest, will not be wasted. Fortunately, forest science around the world is the only way to fight the printer's barker. Studies carried out by forest protection teams in Poland also prove that because of 1 infected spruce left in the forest, 30 are then killed. You can see it perfectly in the Białowieża Forest, which in many areas needs an active human hand to protect species of trees, plants and habitats. Foresters should therefore be given the opportunity to take action that could minimise the scale of tree decay and habitat degradation. Among other things, the present amendment of the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act is also intended to serve this purpose. Proper forest management will allow for further development. I will show here that Polish State Forests were awarded in 2013 by UNESCO for the conservation of nature implemented in the framework of sustainable management of natural resources. The current model of management is good, it is good for all forms of protection Close, active and landscape protection in the Białowieża National Park and in nature reserves and active protection in other areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u183	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The draft law gives the Minister responsible for environmental matters the competence of practically any appointment and dismissal of members of the National Council for Nature Protection. I do not see any justification for giving the Minister such powers. It cannot be that the advice to be an advisory body will be 100% depending on the will of the minister, whose work, and even more than the work, will be judged by the substantive basis. The Council, consisting of representatives of scientific communities, practitioners and natural activists, should have the guarantee of independence of its functioning, whether or not the opinions in question are acceptable to the Minister. Therefore, the Minister should be the last person to decide on the dismissal of a member of the Council and, if he is to do so, should be given specific, substantively justified situations which give him such a right. And in the case of this law, the fate of the Council of Volunteers of the Minister's decision shall be given, without any justification necessary. When I asked the reason for this solution, I heard that the minister must be able to match the advice with changing needs. That, ladies and gentlemen, a little bit like someone gave someone a forest because they have access to mushrooms. It is not necessary for a minister to give authority over the advice in order to enable him to appoint specialists for the time needed for specific tasks. Art. The 96th draft law lists literally the cases in which membership of the Council will cease. No problem can be added to the directory of these cases, which gives the right to appoint a member of the Council for the time of preparation of a specific document and which refers to the cessation of membership after the completion of the task. Such a solution will respond to the need for experts to be co-opted by the Minister for a time, while at the same time giving the Council the luxury of working in harmony with its own conscience, without wondering whether the views expressed are pleasing to the Minister. The argument put forward at the meeting of the Environment Committee that working in the Council is a social action So in guession: there will be no fights for presence in the council It is not an excuse for the powers given to the Minister, but it is offensive to any members of the Council. I am convinced that for the communities whose participation in the Council is expected, more important than any diet is the possibility of unfettered expression about the sphere that is important to them. And that right cannot be taken away from them. And by creating the minister a gateway to creating a council whose views will be comfortable for the ministry, he is even encouraged to apply criteria other than substance criteria. The principle should be to appoint a council for a pre-appointed term. Since the designer has not accepted this principle, I would like to ask you to include it in the article. 2 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) b of the draft law, the following points: after paragraph. 1b the following point 1 is added: The Minister responsible for the environment shall have the right to appoint members of the State Environment Council for the time necessary to carry out the task for which the member has been appointed; after paragraph 1. 1c the following point 1 is added: The appointment of a member of the Council by the Minister responsible for environmental matters shall be replaced by the wording of the statement of reasons for which the member has been appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u185	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This discussion is important because it is about the State Forests, and because it concerned the previous term of office, therefore I would like to address a few words especially to the country which is here for the first term, but also to Senator Ryszka, who reminded us of some movements and decisions from previous years, mentioning almost that the history of the Republic with the slogan: weapons of forests. I'd like to say, Mr. Senator, that I propose that we return. What would be an important topic during our meeting in Poznań To ask himself what Mieszko thought about Polish forests when he was baptized. Because there was Balcerowicz and Mazowiecki, but I think it would be interesting to have a story about what Mieszko thought about Polish forests, about protecting Polish forests from the killers. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to remind you a few things, Senator, because human memory is fleeting. That 1 million 200 thousand signatures, Mr. Senator... As far as I know, the Poles signed the question: are you in favour of privatising forests or are you against it? And of course, this 1 million 200 thousand people signed, Mr. Senator, under the request not to privatize forests in Poland. I probably signed there, too, because I think so, and I am also against privatising Polish forests. I would also like to say that what you are saying is what the President offered in the referendum. That leaving the organizational structure of the Forests like today, which was discussed... The fact is that today forests in Poland can be privatized Only the Minister's decision and we can sell Polish forests in different parts. In order to make it clear that such a possibility exists, there is, and this form you were talking about: yes, leave this form, as the only, best in Europe, also allows for such an operation. So it's a question of political will, I hope it never will be. I will also remind you that it was the political environment of the Civic Platform that proposed a provision in the Constitution to ban privatisation. It ended as it ended, in any case I would like to declare, Dear Senator, that these people from the political environment of the Civic Platform, which I know, are against the privatisation of the State Forests. Now, on the question of whether we would like to bring down such a well-functioning company... Because you gave an example that there were many companies converted into companies, and when they were transformed into companies, they immediately fell. I would like to say a few truths: it is not the legal form that determines the quality of management, although it has a great impact. That's one thing. Secondly, I think the Minister will give us the financial results of the State Forest Company for the previous year. If there is a discussion in the committee about forests and their financial condition, about what is good, what is bad, then I will gladly come to this meeting as a non-member of the committee and take the floor, as I have participated in the work of the previous team on issues such as forests. But I also want to say that my personal knowledge Although the impression may be false about the Polish company State Forests, Mr. Senator, as I watch Poland long and wide, indicates that this company is in good condition. That's when you see the land, the real estate... That's all the foresters are in very good shape today. So you can't say and let's not talk about that in quotes The racket paid not to us, but to the Polish society... This is the money that has entered the Polish budget and has been spent in a large part, as Senator Slugocki said, on road infrastructure tasks. I don't know if you've been here before, Senator, when we fought to use that money for this purpose. It was also a hard fight. I would also like to say that when we talked about some of the money that would affect the state budget, perhaps 1 billion 700 million or 2 billion 700 million State Forests were deposited in their accounts. Well, you could say they could've spent it, they wouldn't have taken it. No, it's not, it's the glory of the Forests that they spent when it was needed, for the designated purposes, on a forest-related program. That money was in the account and they were taken to a large part of the budget. Of course, if they were, you're right, they'd be used for another purpose. But let us not say that a well-functioning company has been depleted. You say we'd like some of you to dig up a gap between the foresters and the rest of society. Let's not be afraid, and as we are looking at the financial condition of the State Forests today, I hope we will see the financial condition of the State Forests for 2015, and I am sure it will be good, and that is very good. Let's also answer another question. So when we look at the average wage, we will see that the highest wage today is in mining. Do you know what group has a second salary in Poland? Foresters. Good. The company is functioning well, there are well-paid employees, with good average, the company has good results and still pays, as you said, a racket to the state budget. But after all, nothing simpler you can lower the tax paid, nothing prevents you. And I will also mention another subject of the discussion about the racket. Perhaps there will also be this discussion about the fossil tax, it is 2 billion PLN, mainly from copper extraction. After all, today you have full power. Come the minister and say from this tribune: from January or February, since March I have reduced the copper tax by 2 billion PLN, reduced all taxes related to the Forests and doubled my salary. Courage, gentlemen! Don't blame everything on Chrobry, Elbow, Mazowiecki, Balcerowicz and others. Today it's all in your hands. And that's why we lost on some things that we did wrong. Therefore, do well and do not mention again, Mr. Senator, those who had good intentions, and sometimes, to say the least, they were wrong, although in my opinion they did it well. Thank you very much. [[Just don't interrupt.]] [[Oh, that's it!]] Mr. Senator, I promise I won't bother you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u187	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ambrosik made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Vistula. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? If that's the case, you're welcome, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! With regard to the amendment that you have tabled and the argument on this amendment, as it is now, I said at the committee meeting, it operates on almost the same principles as proposed in this amendment, the National Environmental Impact Assessment Board. There, the Minister has the right to invoke and cancel. That's one thing. Second thing. Such a temporary appointment and cancellation is... I don't think it's that way, because you don't know when the expert will be needed again when it's necessary. There is a question of the opinion of the so-called. CITES, which is the Washington Convention. It's changing. More experts are needed in this area in committee. Also, today This was also suggested by some lawyers, as we discussed in the Ministry There is a record that the council has 40 members, and at the moment there are 39 members, because Professor Skin died, and from a legal point of view it is not entirely clear whether this advice exists now or not. The senator said the council must be independent. This advice is also being appointed by the Minister at the moment. She shall be appointed by the Minister rigidly for a period of five years. So that the experts are also dependent on the minister. And here's a note. I think it's a very good idea. The Minister also has the right to select as experts appropriate people who express certain convergent opinions, convergent views, who are specialists in the areas of priority of the Ministry, such as: carbon dioxide absorption by forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u189	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: second reading... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Mr. Marshal, if I may... We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law on determining and paying welfare benefits. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and is included in print No 46 and the report of the committee in print No 46 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As your marshal just said, this legislative initiative begins with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. This was the judgment of 18 November 2014 concerning family benefits related to the care of disabled persons, specifically children with disabilities. It must be said that the discussion we had on this matter at the meeting of the two committees was quite long because the Constitutional Tribunal has dealt with this law several times over the last few years, at least three times and three times in the course of which it issued judgments which challenged certain provisions. One of these judgments has already been implemented and has led to some changes in legislation. The second, or actually its consequences, is being considered at the moment, while the third is still waiting for implementation. In this case, the committees decided that they would wait for some time for the government's work in this case, because the government declared that it was carrying out such work. The whole system of benefits for persons, for carers of disabled persons is You've got to say It's very complicated. It is the result of overlapping successive laws, which have improved some cases, but at the same time introduced additional complications, which then had to be improved. The effect is that the Constitutional Tribunal has something to do here, and we have something to do. The case, which is the subject of this senate legislative initiative, is actually relatively simple. Namely, the current rules state that if a child with a certain degree of disability is in the family, then one of the parents who resigns from work I'm talking about a whole family here, which is why I'm talking about parents, but of course there are cases where parents are dead, then they can be other people, etc., here we stick to the so-called ones. typical case It may receive a care allowance. The last, current height is PLN 1,300. If a child's disability is established below a certain age, such care provision may be given to a parent as long as he takes care of the child. You could say that for the rest of your life. What did the Court point out? The Court pointed out that those provisions in a situation where there is, for example, a family environment. two disabled children I'm not talking about more. The second parent because of the fact that the scope of this care is incomparably greater and more difficult, wants to give up his job and wants to act as guardian for the other child, and really both, which is clear... In such a situation, he was no longer entitled to this nursing service. In other words, only one care provision could be granted in one family. The Court points out that a State which has assumed an obligation to help disabled persons and families must take into account the fact that the second child with disabilities is infinitely increasing the scope of those obligations. If only a mother or only a father is entitled to such care, they may simply fail to do so. The Court held that this provision should be modified and should enable the other person also to receive such benefits if he or she resigns from his or her job. And that is the subject of this revision of the Family Benefits Act. It is about eliminating certain prohibitions that exist in this law. These provisions will allow this possibility, both in terms of care provision and in terms of special care allowance. I don't want to go into details, but there are, I would say, two different factual situations. One is that we are dealing in a family with a disabled child or an adult with a disability, but one who, as I say, had a disability under the age of 18 or under the age of 25 if she was a student. The point is that she was born disabled or acquired this disability at that time. The second reality is that the disability occurred later, i.e. at a fully grown age, but such a person needs to be looked after. Then we have a special welfare allowance, which is lower. But in these cases, there may also be situations like the ones I was talking about. That is why this legislative initiative regulates these two issues and simply responds to, I would say, very specific but existing needs and difficult situations in which some families might find themselves. So much for the project itself. Later on, as rapporteur, I further examined these laws, the documents involved and all those provisions, and I noticed that one more minor change would be needed due to the fact that we are introducing the possibility of two benefits in one family, which has not yet been made available. Because I won't want to speak in addition, Mr. Marshal, then I'll just make this amendment, and I'll make it right away. [[Of course.]] If we're dealing with... We have an incomplete family in which a child or children are raised only by one person By a mother or a father. And the situation is that two children are disabled. Then only one benefit will be granted because there is only one person in such a family who can take care of them. And naturally we feel that if, for example. Another family member, whether a brother or sister or grandmother or grandfather, resigned from work or retirement and was willing to take care of another person, he should also receive this benefit. Especially since in other situations such persons are entitled, e.g. when parents are dead or unable to care for other reasons. Yeah, but there's no such rule at the moment. Of course, he was not needed when only one benefit was granted, because the other could not be granted. But in a situation where we change the rule and introduce the possibility of granting a second benefit in the same family, the problem of families where only one parent, or single parent, has to be taken into account. And the amendment simply adds to what is already in force only the appropriate wording, agreed from the legal side with the Legislative Office, that if a mother or father alone raises a child with a judgment referred to in the Act and there is a need to provide care for another child, the second benefit may be granted to another person. And that's the amendment I'm making to your marshal. And I ask the High House to accept this project. And as for the amendment, of course, it is a separate subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u191	Of course. You're welcome. [[Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would like to remind you that the Legislative Commission has also authorised Marshal Marek Borowski to represent it. Would any of you like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u192	Mr Marshal, you mentioned that with regard to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal that has not yet been carried out, you were assured at the committee meeting that the government was working on this, that it would soon finish its work, if I understood correctly. Is there a date, a firm commitment from the government, that this issue will be dealt with?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u193	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u194	Governments, as we know, are generally reluctant to give dates in such situations. In this case, it was referred to a period of approximately 2 months, so roughly. But here's what I'm gonna say: we've recorded it on the committee and, as we say nicely, we're gonna insist. The fact that this is not only about the fact that the government is drawing up a law, one that is not yet available and which the government is developing, but also about what it will contain. And this is the subject of some concern from those concerned. As I am rapporteur, parents and carers of disabled children have just come to me and expressed some concerns, namely... they are a little bit due to the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which stated that... I've mentioned it a little bit. . funds received by carers depending on when the disability arose. In a situation where disability has arisen e.g. At the age of 5, the mother resigns from her job and receives 1 thousand 300 PLN. Year after year anyway. The child turns 18, then 25, is disabled, unable to sustain, and the mother still has 1 thousand 300 PLN. In turn if the disability occurred at the age of 27 or 28 and the parent resigned from his job, he receives 520 PLN. So here is the situation that the caretaker of an adult who has acquired a disability before, at a child's age, gets 1 thousand 300 zlotys, and the caretaker of an adult who has acquired this disability at a later age gets 520 zlotys, while their duties are the same. Hence the anxiety of people who came to me and who write about it in different places. The Court pointed out that these could not be different amounts. Well, there's always the question of how it's going to be equal, whether it's going to be higher or lower or maybe in the middle. So I am allergic to the senators that this is a delicate matter, and I direct these words especially to the majority ruling in case you have any more conversations, contacts with the Ministry. We've already had protests here. We remember the occupation of the Sejm by mothers, by the guardians of children with disabilities, as a result of which, notabene, these amounts were increased. They're people. Well, I don't want to say that unhappy, because it's not a good word, they take it as their mission, but that's not the way to put it. In a very difficult situation of life and I hope that this project, which will be developed by the government, and government representatives seem to be sitting there, will take this into account and that no one will try to save money here because it does not pay off.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u195	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, we're at a questioning stage. Senator Szymanski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u196	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I will first confirm what Senator Borowski was talking about. At the committee meeting this problem was also raised, although it was not related to the topic of today's proceedings, i.e. benefits, and then we provided as a committee Because the meeting was attended by representatives of the parents who had the problems that the senator was talking about. That we will ask the Ministry to hear the parents' representatives, so that they may be considered in the event of consultations on this matter, as I hereby do and join this call. And I'm addressing the senator with the following question. Namely, the Court's ruling was probably in 2014. Has it been explained why effective action has not been taken in the previous term to implement this decision? Why the Senators Only Now Not most, but all of them voted in favour of implementing this ruling as legitimate and right, why did they only now support the initiative on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u197	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u198	This topic was not discussed at the committee meeting, so I find it difficult to answer that question. I can only say that the Court's ruling is dated 18 November 2014, i.e. from the end of 2014. We have already entered the last year of our term of office, and in such situations there is always a certain expectation of government initiative on such matters. The time has been, as you know, electoral, so, to be honest, I'm not surprised at the fact that this initiative on the part of the government didn't come and we took it. Besides, as far as the Court's rulings are concerned, as far as my memory is concerned, we do not usually take them immediately as soon as they appear, but we are always waiting for contact with the government, etc., even if we want to know if the government is preparing something, because if it is preparing, we usually wait for submission, because the government is the most competent.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u199	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the rapporteur a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the draft submitted? The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy represents Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska. No? Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask, in connection with the proposed amendment, what the costs of this project may be after the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u201	Minister, maybe... You're welcome to the podium. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u202	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we're talking about the bill without taking into account this amendment tabled in the Chamber by Mr. Marshal Borowski, right? [[I am asking for a change in family benefits, the one that is being debated today, according to the programme.]] That's right, that's without the amendment. As we pointed out in our letter to the Legislative Commission of January this year, the cost is estimated to be up to 29 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u203	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u204	Minister, of course, I am also addressing you about the execution of the sentence, not this judgment, but the one that has not yet been executed. At what stage are work on the implementation of this last sentence on guardian benefits? And do they really aim to make up for the upside-down benefits for the caretakers of those on their own after eighteen years of age?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u205	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As the senator rightly pointed out, it's only been two months since we've been doing this. Previously, it's been worked a little longer. But the bill is being prepared, today there was a meeting with the guardians of adults with disabilities, we are talking. It seems that a two-track approach is needed, namely to implement the Court's judgment. However, the appropriations for this year in the budget have not been secured, and these are not measures such as those resulting from that first judgment. And the second element: it is important to point out here that systemic solutions appear to have to be developed. Yes? Because the Court's judgment doesn't entirely cover our entire system. But this project, by all means, is prepared and calculated in different variants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u207	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. Please take the floor in Senator Augustine's discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We are dealing with a very important issue in connection with the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The issue that concerns family policy. We must remember that nearly 1 million 400 thousand people in Poland are people who require long-term care. Most of them, 80% of them, are adults. And as long as we enjoyed the 500+ benefit for families who take care of children The hope is that, at this start-up pole of demographic problems, where we want to strive for an increase in childhood, there are resources to support people and families who decide to do so. In so doing, the issue of benefits for independent people, especially because of age, is still not regulated. There are very many benefits at different levels carried out by different resorts, there are very different forms of aid, but all of this concerns a really small percentage of the people to whom the aid is due. And the issue is very important in the future, it concerns almost every Polish family. I don't know if you know that the risk of independence concerns half the population, 50% of us will wait such a time, at least six months, that we will require care. Therefore, many countries have long thought about complex solutions. In answer to Senator Szymanski's question, why the government has failed to comply with this and another sentence, I will say that the government has invited these guardians with whom you are talking to, to the so-called. Round table. The talks were going on like December, I was there, I was also speaking because on the one hand we wanted to eliminate this inequality, which was, but on the other hand we wanted to propose comprehensive solutions, so that finally in Poland we could talk about a coherent system of care for independent people. Of course, it is a difficult matter, in many countries, and also with us, expensive, requiring a good choice of way. I just want to remind you that the Senate in the past and in the previous term worked on this issue and ended around the same time. At a time when there was no longer a chance of final solutions, because in June last year It was then sent to the Ministry for evaluation by preparing a draft law on assistance for independent persons. I hope that it will be a contribution to this debate that is. What was disputed at this round table is whether to go consistently and completely and only towards the occupation of carers or, however, to prepare a system that would create the possibility of reconciling work and care. It was a matter of dispute. This project, which I am talking about, has determined this issue in such a way as to leave the choice to families, but it has given serious incentives not to eliminate older people's carers from the labour market, because it will take about a million of them if we want to take the deinstitutionalisation of care seriously. We can't afford to encourage carers to give up their jobs, we should do everything we can to limit this choice of quitting my job, and I'm just focusing on care. It is also because our pension system makes the amount of the pension conditional on the amount of the contribution collected. Lack of presence on the labour market reduces opportunities mainly for women, because they are 80% babysitters. And more importantly, they're about the same age as they are when the loss of contributions to the pension system is the most painful. That is why I am glad to hear the Minister's words that these talks are continuing, that this subject is on. And we didn't pick it up in our committee, knowing that the government, working on a 500-plus solution, needs a breath to sort things out. It seems that this is the moment when you need the next movement and solving these demographic issues as if at the second pole, the poles of old age, late old age, because at the age of 80+ over 40%, and at the age of 90+ more than 50% of people require constant care of others. Let us view today's discussion as an introduction to a serious debate. I think the Senate is actually a good place to sacrifice one meeting of this issue, because it requires a lot of financial effort and social consent. And since it's difficult for us to get this agreement, we've been talking about what you mentioned in the marshal's hallway during that protest that so electrified public opinion at one time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u209	Thank you very much, Senator. Did... [[Mr. Marshal, may I have some more?]] Yes, of course. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u210	I'd just like to report I should have done this earlier on with a proposal to move to third reading at this meeting, if possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u211	Okay, of course, I'll report him as your marshal's motion. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. Mr. Senator! Minister! A little off the record, I'll say that before I became a senator, over 9, 10 years ago, I had the privilege of working with Minister Religa on the so-called project. The care bill... [[Care insurance.]] The last assumptions I made with the Minister are in my possession. If the Minister wishes to use this law, it is at my disposal. And its entry into force for many years and several term of office prevented the lack of resources. This was the case between 2005 and 2007 and the following terms of office. That's what we have to say. so completely objectively, because according to the principles of this law it required quite large financial expenditure. But I think we need to get back to this discussion no matter how deeply we have to interfere with these assumptions. I'm sorry about the way you put it outside of the discussion. [[You shouldn't have spent it on stadiums, either way.]] This is a separate discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no people who would like to speak in the discussion. I therefore inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Borowski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Senator Borowski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the voices of the opposition, I'll take the view that the Senate has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. We therefore move on to the next item on the agenda. We proceed to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling and is included in print No 45 and the committee's report In print No 45 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a draft implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal which has found that four paragraphs of the Article are incompatible. 32 of the IPN Act, by introducing in this Act solutions which deviate from the general principles of administrative proceedings in relation to the refusal of access to the IPN file. In that procedure, in those 4 paragraphs, a derogation from the general rules of procedure consisted in the fact that, first, instead of examining the case at the hearing, it was provided that the case was dealt with in secret; secondly, the obligation to state the reasons for the judgment was lifted in the event of a positive decision; thirdly, there was such a principle that, if the judgment was justified, i.e. where the complaint was refused, only the President of the IPN was served with this justification. The effect of this was that the party could not take part in the proceedings because, since it was at a secret meeting and not at the hearing, it did not participate, firstly, and secondly, if the party wanted to file a complaint against an unfavourable decision of the administrative court, it did not have any justification, which in itself appears as a situation actually violating the right of the person to defend, to hear and to hear his case at the hearing. And let me remind you that the element of the public hearing of every court case is also the standard that arises from the article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights. The courts should act on the so-called. open curtains and thus also be under social control. Exceptionally, situations are acceptable where, instead of a public hearing, it is possible to identify cases at closed doors, but these must be specific exceptions. Here, the Court has not seen such specific situations, exceptions, especially since this was not about a set of documents which would be a restricted set, i.e. not as accessible as other collections. Therefore, we in order to bring this defective regulation into line with the standards which would result from this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, and also from the Code of Administrative Procedure, and also from Article. 6 The European Convention on Human Rights, we have proposed that the amendment should move towards repealing these contested paragraphs of the Article. 32. Except that 3 paragraphs are mentioned here, not 4 because, as it were on the way, before the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal was given, one of these paragraphs was changed by the Sejm, so that at the moment there was only the need to repeal 3 paragraphs. Hence, our change is small, because it is literally a one-time change, which leads to the deletion of these paragraphs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u213	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would like to remind you that the Legislative Committee has also authorised Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to represent it. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? The Ministry represents Minister Marcin Warchoł. Welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. There are no legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen, we move to the next item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Public Finance Act. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is included in print No 73 and the committee's report In print No 73 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Marek Pęk, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I hope I can make it to 6:00... High Izbo, I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Legislative Commission, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the draft law amending the Act on Public Finance. This legislative initiative stems from the obligation to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal held in its judgment of 9 April 2015, the signature of Act K 14/13, that Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 2th Public Finance Act is incompatible with the Constitution. Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 2th Public Finance Act reads as follows: "Public information shall not be provided other than those mentioned in paragraph 2. 1 documents produced by the internal auditor during the internal audit. In short, the whole article. 284 this is precisely the case. . internal audit. Many documents are drawn up as part of the internal audit. In the mouth. 1 the audit plan and the report on the implementation of the audit plan are mentioned. And here there was no doubt, because the provision stated that these two documents constituted public information available on request within the meaning of the Act of 6 September 2001 on access to public information. On the other hand, the mouth. 2 because he said in general that other documents were not public information... The Court considers that this is too broad a restriction on access to public information as other documents are produced under internal audit which, depending on the individual situation, may contain information treated as public information. In principle, the Commission had only one problem with the implementation of that judgment, namely whether the removal of the paragraph would be sufficient. 2 or the entire article should be deleted in order to maintain legislative coherence. Leave only the mouth. 1 would actually give rise to the same doubts and would not explain this legal situation. After hearing the opinion of the legislator, we have come to the conclusion that, as the High House, we can also delete our mouths. 1, i.e. de facto remove the entire recipe. We could also try with such a legislative path that we would develop lips. 2, i.e. we would try to create a catalogue of documents, apart from an audit plan and an audit report, which are also documents containing public information. But this is a difficult task, every such calculation is subject to a certain risk. Both the Legislative Commission and later the three joint committees, as well as the majority of external actors invited to participate in the work, the Ministry and the representatives of auditors, considered that the proposed amendment to remove the entire article would be optimal. That's basically it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u215	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would like to remind you that the Legislative Committee has also authorised Senator Mark Pęk to represent her. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Is there a government representative?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u216	Katarzyna Szarkowska, Director of the Department of the Ministry of Finance. Minister Skiba, who has been authorized, is currently moving from a meeting at the Attorney General... [[Closer to the microphone... please turn on the microphone.]] [[Voice from the room: Activate...]] Katarzyna Szarkowska, director of the Department of Expenditure Policy, i.e. the department responsible for coordination and management control of internal audit in the Ministry of Finance. Minister Skiba is authorized by Minister Shalacha, but he's moving from a meeting at the Attorney General's office right now, so I can't control... [[No problem. Would you like to speak on the bill presented?]] All I can say is that the Ministry of Finance supports this project and is in favour of it being adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u217	Does Marshal Borusewicz want to speak? [[No.]] [[No, I'm saying no questions to the minister.]] I see. At present, the senators... I have to read it, standard. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. There are no legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u218	High Senate! The meeting of the National Defence Commission on the examination of the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016, seym prints No 314 and 318, will take place tomorrow, 17 March 2016, at 8.15 p.m. in room No 176. The meeting of the Environment Commission on the examination of the requests submitted at the 13th Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation, No. 101, will take place tomorrow, 17 March 2016, at 8.15 p.m. in room No. 179. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the 13th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws, Senate print No. 94, will take place tomorrow, 17 March 2016, at 9.00 a.m. in room No. 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission on the proposals submitted at the 13th Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on Criminal Code and then to the Act amending the Law on Criminal Procedure and certain other laws, will take place tomorrow, 17 March, at 8.00 in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-senat-13-1.u219	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 9:30 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 17 minutes 50]]
