ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u1	High Senate! Resume session. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please silence the conversation. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Law amending the Law on Forests and consider it as point seven; a law amending the Law amending the Law on the Health Information System and certain other laws And consider it point eight. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that today at 4:00 p.m., an hour and a half will be ordered to adjourn. We return to the second agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would remind you that before the adjournment of the session, we had finished asking questions to the government representative. I'm opening a discussion right now. And you're welcome... Tell me who was the first to speak. Mr. Secretary is unprepared... He's prepared. You're prepared. Good. [[Senator Jan Rulewski.]] You're welcome, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act that opens today's proceedings, which is the submission of the government In fact, it is a continuation of the work of the previous Senate, especially the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. On the basis of this work, a resolution was introduced whereby people with very low incomes at the age of 75 and who later worked out to run their own households would be fully entitled to receive free medicines without restrictions. The government, you have to admit, has extended the petition proposal. He expanded this right to be independent of profit criteria, but, on the other hand, he introduced a restriction in the form of a basket of To this day, it is not known what medications and values older people will be able to receive, over 75 years of age, so how much benefit they will be able to benefit from it. I believe that the proposal responds to social expectations. However, there is no denying that even as a supporter of such solutions, I am associated with the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I am also bound by the opinions of this law. Maybe we should start by saying that the two opinions that were received in Parliament at the request of Members clearly indicate many shortcomings, including constitutional ones. First of all, they point to the fact that the limit of 75 years is an artificial boundary, not sufficiently justified. Other experts, social politicians outside the parliament and others point to the fact that no income thresholds have been introduced and therefore the possibility of receiving these medicines has been restricted to those who do not have the possibility to acquire them. In these constitutional reservations, attention is also drawn to Article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, which says that this particular care should be taken by pregnant women and children. However, such a limit eliminates those who should be given special care. Personally, I would add renownists who are not 75 years old, but are among the most socially excluded in terms of income and the ability to meet medical needs. Next: unemployed persons without entitlement to benefits. Even if this allowance is available, it does not exceed the net of 700 PLN. Nevertheless, I do not think that in this case we should be a total opposition. In view of the budgetary needs, as well as the announcement by the Minister and his deputy present, that this policy will be implemented, I would like this law to be extended to include a group of people of particular concern It is about children and young people, i.e., as the Act says, about beneficiaries up to 18 years old. It should be until 19 years, because the PiS raised the limit of school duty constitutionally protected, but let's stick to this original convention, 18 years old. Why is this group and group of people with chronic diseases proposed? During the committee's work, the minister said that he somehow implemented the 500+ programme. Only that I remind you, Minister, that the 500+ programme is directed elsewhere, includes other actions. It is intended to increase the population, improve the demographic situation of society. Moreover, it is worth noting that the 500+ programme concerns the second child. What about families with one child with chronic illness? Perhaps that is why parents fear that they will not be able to cure him or provide him with proper care. As regards the need for accents in the field of pharmacological aid, medical measures and assistance This is not much said in Parliament, and it is about equipment, blindfolds, cameras used for asthma, etc. I don't think you need to convince the High House to do that. This is a group of people whose needs are most justified. Thanks to these measures, these children can develop, participate in the education process, and this is emphasised by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I therefore think that the High House does not need to be persuaded to amend by which these children would be added to this law. According to the spirit of this bill... As you know, this law introduces a basket of restricted drugs. I also believe that, given the current situation as well as the technical problems associated with the e-recept system, such a basket should be created for these children. We all know what disease it is, but it's worth remembering. GUS, experts and various other reports point primarily to such chronic diseases of children. According to the WHO definition and the American definition, such disease lasts for at least 3 and 6 months. Children are burdened with diseases such as allergies children in Poland are allergic; then diabetes, especially type 2 diabetes. I am told by the diabetic foundation that average treatment, the cost of average pharmacological treatment for children and adolescents up to 18 years old, leading to the maintenance of proper levels of sugar, insulin at normal level, is about 400 PLN. It's not true, that's what this foundation says, that these drugs are free or refunded. The strips necessary for continuous measurement of sugar levels, ten times a day, are the cost of 100 PLN. [[They're refunded.]] Stripes are refunded in insufficient quantities and not all. In the case of a group of pensioners, a group covered by the law, this is similar. Further purchases of long-acting insulin depend on the degree of disease, the insulin defect, which causes... Here's the address of this foundation, coming up, Senator, so you can get in touch so you can live among people, because it's gonna work well... Anyway, that's 400 zlotys. Hence the need for a foundation. If everything were okay, it probably wouldn't have been a foundation. [[I didn't say it was okay.]] I'll continue. I've already mentioned allergies chronic children, continued diabetes, mental illness, especially epilepsy, otherwise epilepsy. There are such beliefs... Mr. Senator, I would have even supported your opinion if I hadn't checked it out. Indeed, a group of medicines is subject to a total or partial refund. Unfortunately, it turns out that there are frequent, even every two months changes. When I was talking, for example. with parents of children with epilepsy, it turned out that you cannot change these medicines so quickly. It can be said that the disease tends to yield to constant medications, and then they fall out of the basket and are not refunded. This is just one example. And there are other diseases, Mr. Marshal, I'll continue. E.g. asthma, asthma, which requires, as I checked, not only medication, but also good cameras. High Izbo, the cost of this operation, which would cover this 1/5 population of children with chronic diseases, and not all of them need to be treated, because it depends on the will of the Minister, it would amount to no more than PLN 100 million. It can't be defined precisely. This is why the Platform asks that in this opening up to sick people, because pensioners are in fact also people with chronic diseases, expand this action and that the Minister in the bill write down a basket of chronic diseases for children. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u3	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wojtyla. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Then please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's an important submission, because no doubt any situation where a person leaves the window without buying a drug is an accusation. all of us who should ensure that the constitutional rights of Poles are respected. There are different data on how many people there are. I think PolSenior's research is the most reliable. Although they are a few years old, they were made on a huge population and, so to speak, crosswise. But all the research is consistent with the fact that in a group of pensioners and pensioners, a dozen percent of people... those who can't buy drugs at all, probably according to the PolSenior study, were 4% They're the ones who don't have enough money to buy drugs from time to time. So, of course, the issue is important and worth supporting. The Senate sees her. Senator Mammoth has been very keen to have a law that gives the right to free medicines in his previous term of office. So we need to get back to those arguments that were here at the time. We agreed that the reason for not buying drugs was a material situation. And if so, we should help those who lack money. Not all of them, not some selected age group, but those who lack the resources to buy drugs. This is not necessarily related to age, because, contrary to such common thinking and observation, it is not so that the number of chronic diseases continues to grow with age, and therefore the need for medicines continues to increase. That's not true. This curve, somewhere after seventy-five, seventy-seven years of age, is broken fortunately. Those who survive this age are the copies of my disgusting expression. A lot stronger organisms and the number of chronic diseases in this group is then slightly smaller. It must also be borne in mind that the 75+ group indicated in the Act is a group which has already been recognised, as the Minister referred to at the meeting of our committee, as being particularly in need of support. It is this group, regardless of the income situation, that receives PLN 209 each month of care allowance. In addition, studies show that at least 75 years of age, with care aid, because that is the name of this supplement, only 8% of people benefit from this supplement. , at the age of 90, 50%. Because, of course, it grows with age. What is this money spent on? Retired people agree that it's for medication and rehabilitation. So this age group, which is preferred here, is actually getting some support. I do not claim that it is sufficient and sufficient for all. There's no record of that. But surely these people are in a better position than other retirement groups before they were seventy-five years old. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember that in Poland the lowest pensions and the lowest pensions, very low benefits are received in the group of pensioners 11.04% , and in a group of Rentists 13.04%. By adopting this bill, we must realise that those people who have turned 60 years of age in the case of women It's not 61, because that's the retirement age now. .. or 66 years for men and who have very low benefits, we say that they will have nothing to do with it. I think this bill is misdirecting this aid. Help is very needed, but not addressed to those who need it most, the poorest. This retired officer of the Polish People's Army with a high pension will receive free medicines refunded, and the poor pensioner, who has. I do not know if you remember 886 zł gross pension, will leave the window still without any help. That's absurd. It's a waste of public money that should be properly addressed. I'm asking for the fate of these people, the poorest pensioners. This is going. On the line of least resistance. Yes, our work slipped because indeed... such a proper bill, with a profit criterion, would indeed be more difficult. I'm sure in terms of service... That's what the Minister said. I agree with you: surely such a law would be more complicated and costly in terms of service, because it would probably have to be in correlation with social services. It's true. However, when we pass this bill, we leave so many people out of it that it is difficult to accept such a thing. I took the data and... from the latest data from the Social Security Office, the benefits up to 1 thousand zlotys get, ladies and gentlemen, 35% Rentists in Poland. In addition, the aid referred to here, this year, probably for budgetary reasons, is, you might say, not even symbolic, but almost apparent. The mentioned 150 million PLN, if it is paid, say, from June, will be support within the limit of PLN 9, less than 10 PLN per person. A month, of course. If since September, maybe 11 zlotys. In any case, these are symbolic amounts intended for a very limited group of medicines. That's why I think if there aren't enough resources, and you can see there's not enough... At that time, in our previous term of office, budgetary problems were also a shadow to our efforts; we heard: money is missing. In this case, you really should address the transferred money properly. That is why I believe that the bill discussed here is flawed. The intentions are good, the case is important, but the law is bad and hurtful for a large group of pensioners and pensioners who need help. I would just like to draw a brief attention to two points. The Minister did not find, he did not present at the committee's meeting the data presented here by his predecessor. He talked about a great deal of waste in situations where medicines are given free of charge. Here, in the questions, it was said that there are certain fuses, that there is a family doctor, a system, etc., to catch such a thing. But I ask: doesn't this system work for those who already have the right to free medicines today? And last but not least, the bill is always based on data from today, but we also create it for the future. We would like Poland to be a country where no one leaves the pharmacy window because of the lack of money to buy drugs. This law should be extended as soon as possible, and should cover all those who need it, not only seniors, but also very poor families, especially children who are chronically ill. But let's take another look at the future. Retirement rate or pension will be in the new scheme We know that. It's much lower than today. And it won't start when you're 75. This group of pensioners in relation to those who will enter retirement age will be lucky with large pensions. And that's the kind of system we want to implement. I do not know whether you know that pensions from the new system are almost PLN 1 000 lower than the previous ones. Really, even if we accept the prospect of the future, we can see even more clearly that this law in this form is misdirecting public money, so much needed by pensioners who cannot buy drugs. I hope, however, that the Minister spoke about it. That this is the first step and that you will take into account not the promises of the election, but research, hard facts and indeed we will all face the problem of Polish poverty, so big that there is not enough money for treatment. It's a bigger problem than the drug problem. It's a much wider problem. But it would be a good idea to at least do this clipping right. This law of these criteria, in my opinion, does not meet, although it will certainly bring relief to a group of pensioners, and for others it will be an unexpected gift. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u5	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is good that we think of the elderly, although we know that the definitions of old age do not take the limit of 75 years as a limit established for scientific reasons. This is a limit set in a sense arbitraryly. And the average life expectancy in Poland, especially men, does not reach this limit yet. Speaking of this necessary, useful regulation, which is a kind of prosthetic, as the current Minister Landa said... At first, it is a kind of experiment, a very limited amount, a very limited amount for doctors who will be entitled to write free prescriptions, and a very limited amount for medicines that will be included in the list of free medicines. By the way, Minister. I'm not going to report this as an amendment. It is worth that the drugs that will be on this list should be produced in factories, pharmaceutical plants located in our country, regardless of what group they belong to, because at least Polish workers will benefit from it. And this is one of my requests. If we were to better value pensions, this bill wouldn't be necessary. This year we give on average about 45 PLN for seniors, and I will remind you that in fact this regulation will start working from 1 September. Because even though we approve it, it will be dead until the list of medicines is published free of charge, and as the Minister mentioned, it is not easy to prepare such a list. And that's understandable. We apply for children up to the age of eighteen, also constitutionally protected, which makes Senator Rulewski particularly special. And this is a matter to consider extremely seriously. It is good that the amount spent on medicines for seniors will be increased more and more. This year we're looking at as some kind of experiment. That's why I appeal to the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. I appeal to the Minister for this, too. We will agree to include geriatrics in this. Because I'm getting extremely negative signals under the motto: how this has been established specialization, which in theory is supposed to take care of old people, in theory we're supposed to know better than other doctors, including family doctors, we're supposed to ordain medicines more properly. I mean, in parentheses, it's a little more cost-effective. In the meantime, we are denied the right to discharge these medicines. The Minister explained that it was limited, limited to family doctors, and that the list would then be expanded. I suggest, considering the case as a quasi-scientific study, that a group of geriatrics, which is counted It's okay, it's Three hundred and sixty such people in the country make a kind of control group and give them this attribute. Otherwise, we'll ridicule this specialty and make geriatrics feel useless. I don't think geriatrics are gonna ruin this system financially, and we would have some kind of control group that would help us figure out what would happen if we opened up the possibility of writing free drugs to all health insurance doctors, which, in my opinion, per balance would be much better. The time since the last day of the sitting, when we started a series of questions and finished it, I used it for contacts with numerous family doctors. They have a lot of questions. They're getting another assignment. I'm afraid they'll come to the ministry for money because people are being discharged from hospitals. And there's hundreds of them a day, if not thousands. If they find a recommendation on an information card from the hospital regarding one medicine that will be free, they will go to the family doctor, increasing the queues and waiting only for the so-called prescription advice, which means that someone will write them a prescription. This is an unnecessary obstacle. It is a mitraga for sick people, for sick people, often burdened with many diseases, and overload enough already busy family doctors. Family doctors ask: how will it be, will I be getting any signal that the limit has already run out, or will I know if I can still discharge free medications? Meanwhile, as we know, the whole process of writing a prescription through its implementation in the pharmacy to settle the refund is taking a while. It is therefore highly likely that the amount of 125 million will be exceeded to some extent. But that's what I hope the ministry is prepared for. As for the opinion of the medical community, which allows us to make this law better, as I said in my speech, such opinions are generally that I will say euphemistically, cautiously. The old saying, and yet the basic canon of medicine, says that the well-being of a sick person is the highest law. Salus aegroti suprema lex. With the present form of the bill, if we do not perfect it, we will not improve it, I fear that the patient's well-being will be satisfied only to an unnecessary minimalist degree. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u7	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator Bonkowski, because you have a lack of knowledge who has data on the treatment of children's diabetes, I give you: it's the Diabeciaki Foundation, Helping the Young Diabetes. And it says authoritarianly that the intensive treatment of children with type 1 diabetes must be spent on 4 and 6 packages per month. This is an expense of between 50 and 100 PLN per month, and analogue insulin costs between 300 and 400 PLN per month, which is not enough to cure diabetes even 500+. After all, what is involved in treating chronic diseases, especially diabetes in children? Above all, it is a matter of not treating other diseases, such as vision, liver, and perhaps even more tragic, related to amputation of limbs. [[Mr. Senator, all I said about the stripes is that they're being refunded.]] The senator is from Gdansk, and the foundation is from Łódź... [[Only the stripes I said were refunded.]] I'm not gonna tell you again... You're taking my time. [[Mr. Senator Rulewski, don't argue.]] I would like to return to the discussion of this amendment, which is very moderate, even taking into account the Minister's comments, which were tabled during the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Well, the Minister said that in the long run, there is a possibility of such a change, and that is very positive thinking. And in response to this, I propose an amendment to allow children who are chronically ill with the free medicines programme next year to be included in the programme. Because the budget for this year has already been approved And if this is impossible, according to the government, from 2018, after good preparation. The proposed amendment is, I would say, flexible, because, according to it, the Minister would define a basket of medicines for chronic diseases and the amount of the aid refund which, due to budgetary constraints, would be the most drastic cases. It's about preventing serious diseases of old age, because there's no way to hide that untreated diabetes... In fact, the Minister wrote in his statement that good pharmacological policy is a saving on hospitalisation. So, in fact, it proposes taking money out of the money earmarked for the basket and investing in the basket, that is to say, in the treatment of chronically ill children. Then I appeal to the Minister to modify his position and to the senators. For adoption of the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u9	Thank you, Senator. Senator Waldemar Kraska will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, I am already a senator for the fourth term, but as I listened to the opposition senators today, first I was amazed to open my eyes wide, then I started wiping them out, and then I opened my mouth, because this concern you are now declaring, about the elderly, and Senator Rulewski also about the children and pregnant women, is really devastating. I think you're forgetting that you've been in charge of our country for eight years, the PO-PSL coalition, and you've had time to bring it all in. [[In corrigendum mode, because my name was called...]] And right now, as we're trying to relieve the seniors of their misery and poverty, because some people can't even buy drugs, you're accusing us that it's just going to be a small group, which isn't enough, and you're forgetting about those past years. It's a very noble attitude, but I think you have to hit your chest and look back. Senator Augustine is very keen to use statistics. Mr. Senator, I haven't found any information that 4% of seniors aren't buying prescribed drugs, but I found information that there are no more people doing it, because 17% are. And while we're on the statistics, Mr. Senator, I'm gonna be honest with you, I was surprised at the statements made at the previous sitting. I've been looking for some information about this, too. The more old we are, the less disease we have. To tell you the truth, I haven't found enough statistics to make us healthier as we get older. If that were the case, I think one more term, and we're just gonna rejuvenate... I'll just give you a few health statistics after seventy-five years of age. And so on. so-called. joint degenerative disease will affect almost 80% population after seventy-five years of age. So for the 100 senators that we're here right now, 80 will complain about joint diseases. I think even the younger ones are complaining about it now. Hypertension will affect between 60 and 70% , for ischaemic heart disease will get about 30%, for diabetes, 20%, for glucose intolerance also 20%, for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, so-called. COPD 25%. When we talk about somatic and mental illness, 30% will suffer from depression and dementia will affect 10%. , of which after ninety years of age Nearly 40% of people. As a result, unfortunately, Mr. Senator, we do not recover with age, but on the contrary, we are getting sick. And the possibility that seniors can buy these drugs for free is really, I think, a good step, a good change. Senator Augustine said it was unfair to have such high pensions as they have. Officers of the Polish Army or former SB officers... Well, Mr. Senator, it's been eight years to change that. You didn't do anything about it. Using statistics and saying that a couple of zlotys will appear on a pensioner is, of course, a mistake. You can stretch it out for hours, say you'll have a few pennies for an hour. It's a little ridicule in the way I think it's very unfair, especially since you've been working on the family committee for years and should know that any help to older people is very much needed. Many times here the issue of why family doctors, why not geriatrics, why not other doctors was raised. As the Minister explained In fact, we talked about this in the committees. There is no IT system that can control all of this, therefore only family doctors. And again, we have to look back. Why isn't there an IT system? It is because you have failed this programme for which the European Union's money was paid. It was supposed to work by the end of the year, and it didn't work. That's why there are solutions. If this system is running, of course I think that other groups of doctors who can discharge medications will be taking these medications. And the last thing I took from my statement was a waste of medicine. Of course, but I think that each of us, if we look at our home first aid kit, will find far too much of these drugs in relation to our needs. Such a tendency is that we always prefer to have more medicine at hand than we need. Once again, I call on you to adopt this law, because it is a good step for most pensioners. The fact that there's only 125 million this year... But let's look at the following years, practically from year to year, the amount of money for medicines free will increase, and thus the availability of medicines free for pensioners will grow from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u11	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski in what mode? [[In replica mode.]] Please. Your name was mentioned?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u12	Yes. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, my previous speaker, honourable senator, committee chairman and senator rapporteur, used my name in the context of denial. I believe that I have not contributed to the provision of free medicines for the elderly and especially for low incomes. [[I didn't say that.]] That's obviously not true, Senator. And let me make a bet with you: I'll eat my one shoe if it's true, but you'll eat your two if I prove it wasn't true. However, I would like to point out that in his speech, Mr. Senator, you switched roles. You are now acting as the minister of the former government, and all the motives you are presenting are actually in favour of rejecting this law. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u13	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I am beginning to get used to the fact that every law that is being applied to us is wrong. Well, a little more and I'll know that everything we do is wrong. I'd like to explain one thing. The so-called senior law applies to seniors, the elderly. This is a law that applies to people over the age of 75. This is not a bill that applies to children. I think that if we proceed with child-related cases, that bill will have a different name and concern something else. As far as chronic diseases are concerned, most of the medicines used in chronic diseases are refunded at different stages. Some are refunded as 30% drugs, some as lumps, a lot of drugs It's totally free. There are also drugs 100% but these are novelties that have not yet been fully verified with us and have not been approved by any committees. I'm telling you this as a practice doctor because I've been working at POZ for over 30 years. I have experience with patients who require help who need this bill and who are waiting for it as salvation. People over the age of 75 who are within my reach... I work in a clinic that has about 6,000 patients. I didn't meet rich people there. This is a small resort, in the so-called Poland B. There are people out there who really make money. The care allowance they receive is more than 200 PLN; it is intended for various things, often not for buying medicines, but for securing basic needs. About that... We have already discussed many times why family doctors should decide on this issue. First of all, because they have access to their patients every day, because they know them well. The fact that high-end specialists, such as geriatrics, will one day have that right, when there's transparency, I think it's obvious. But right now, just a direct check on the prescription will make it possible that such medications will not be wasted. Over the past few years It's hard for me to say how much, because I didn't see it. The prices of medicines have gradually increased. They grew every two months. Refund letters changed every two months. And that didn't prove that every two months the price of the drug went down. On the contrary. I've always said it's a way to raise the price of the drug and keep the patient from rebelling. Because if such a patient every 2 months had an increase in the price of a given drug, let's say 50 cents, he didn't rebel, even though after a year, or after 6 such increases, the price had already increased by 3 gold. I'd like to tell you that 75 years is the age that we've accepted, you can say, actually symbolically. This is the age we consider to be one where people really need extra help. And the people who are at my place, in my area of work, are really looking forward to this bill. I think she's very good, that she needs to be introduced, that this is the first step. You wonder why you're so little. You know how much money is left, how much money the ministry has left at its disposal. The money that is currently being spent on patients is the money that can be spent on them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u15	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Raphael the locksmith. [[...a replica because the name was mentioned.]] [[Mr. Marshal, about the replica...]] Was the name of Senator Rulewski mentioned? Now, too? [[How many times a replica?]] [[The Children's Act. About the kids.]] Check it out. Mr. Senator, if there was, I'll allow the replica. We'll see in a minute... [[The replica's been here before.]] [[This is aggression against... children with chronic diseases...]] [[But the name didn't come up.]] Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Rafał the locksmith will speak. [[There was no name now!]] We'll check in a minute. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! We are debating a law that was promised, a law that is expected, but also a law that is a problem, like the previous law, 500+. It is a problem for the opposition, because when someone feels a certain polemic imperative, there is obviously a question of which side to attack this law, how to discuss with it. There are two areas of polemics with social laws reported by the current public authority. The first is that this is not exactly what we promised. But the disappointment that the PiS supposedly doesn't keep their electoral promises doesn't apply to the PiS voters, but to those who didn't vote for the PiS. The second area of polemics with such laws... I would put it this way: yes, but either too close to the law. That is why proposals for the extension of this law are emerging. As we heard when discussing the amendments, the point is to include further, by reference to the article. 68 constitutions, additional groups; this would mean clearing up the bill by including other doctors who will have the power to write prescriptions. It can be said that this is an approach that manifests itself not entirely consistent concern for public funds, because It is precisely the legislator's duty to share the common good, while at the same time not to strain the state's finances. I think that reservations about this law are closing in these two areas. However, I would like to point out that there is an unfair charge in which the subtext may suggest that we discriminate against certain groups. Indeed, as already mentioned by my previous speakers, there were 8 years of participation in the welfare of the state, not only in groups which are allegedly discriminated against. The groups that we turn on, i.e. seniors, could already be included; they were not included either. It was only the current public authority that insisted on this. I would like to draw attention to two additional aspects that have not yet been mentioned here, and which I think are, They should appear in the debate on this law. The first thing that I am pleased about is that the public authority of a country that, fortunately, is not experiencing a significant economic crisis at the moment, felt obliged to share the welfare of the state with wider groups. In the sense that our country is doing well, we involve wider social groups; we have done so in the case of the 500+ programme and we propose this also for the 75+ programme. Please note that during the previous debate on 500+, the dispute with our law was similar. I mean, it's not exactly... It has been said that the only children of poor families should still be included. So we've also been dealing with an attempt to disperse... well, a lack of budget concern. So we involve wider groups in the sense that our country is in a good position. Now, the second aspect that was left out, which led to this law. It is about moving away from a very dangerous thesis that has worked for eight years with regard to health protection, that there are enough resources in the system. This law is based on budgetary resources, it is not a transfer of funds within the National Health Fund. This is a very good direction and a very good definition of the situation in which health protection is currently underway. Of course, the dimension is still insufficient, but the direction is absolutely right. To sum up, after the debate in the committee, I have the impression that the state criticising this law is not following a certain line of reasoning which appeared in the public debate, that it is a populist law. No. She is not populist, because the state does not object to its adoption, the state is holding back the vote, but there is no objection to this law. Since you share our view that this law on direction is right, let us also prepare it as planned. Then I ask you to accept the bill without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator in what mode? [[Mr. Marshal, in replica mode...]] Excuse me? [[...because it's clearly addressed to me...]] A replica. Here you go, three minutes or two minutes... [[But there was no name.]] And then you're Senator Augustine. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I meet with the incredible aggression of the senators, including the Senators of doctors, among others. from Senator Kraska, when we raise children's problems with chronic diseases. That's what I look at with the silent hope of your marshal, who, after all, has such a clear tenderness in this matter. I'm wondering, Senator... I forgot my name. You said, although you saw problems, the need to help this group of children, that this problem should be temporarily, which is for many years, hanged on a stake, on a fence. And one more point. High Izbo, it is an abuse that I perform so strongly and in favour of this law, considering it to be the beginning... It's an abuse that I didn't do this alone... The President of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions is here, and you are Senator Mammoths, with whom we were acting together on the success of this law. It would also be very interesting to hear the voice of the senator and Minister Radziwiłł, who has a lot to say in this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Augustine. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll tell you a little bit. The awareness of the problem was already in previous years and even earlier. You had one, too. After all, you are not, so to speak, a virgin in rule, everyone had their 5 minutes and more, everyone could have done, if they didn't, then just like now. It is not possible at this point for budgetary reasons to satisfy all those waiting in all areas and in all matters. So I'm sure all those who get this right will be happy. Among them will be those who really need it, or those who are seventy - five years old. And it's worth noticing and emphasising on the plus. I just wanted to say two more things. Namely Mr. Senator, if you'll excuse me. It is our duty to rely on statistics, although they can be deceptive. Yes? Social policy, including health, should and most often so. It is based on facts, on research. And that's why I brought up official statistics here based on data from research ordered by the government or presented by government institutions. If you'd like to take a look at PolSenior's research into those tables that show the health status of Poles. That's where you'll find confirmation of this... But that doesn't mean that everything you said about the number of diseases that plague the elderly isn't true. This is absolutely true, but these data should not be presented against each other because they are talking about something completely different. Finally, I'd like to say yes. When, out of lack of resources and fear of adequate safeguards against abuse, we did not agree as a majority to adopt the law on free drugs, which Senator Mammoth suggested, we suggested a certain direction. It seems to me, as part of my further thinking on this matter, that if there were measures God forbid that they should be, because these are budget resources, but even though it would be connected with a certain mitraga for the sick, it would be worth thinking about addressing them properly and using the social assistance system. The right to provide for the purchase of medicines is already included in the Social Assistance Act, but it is not a compulsory task, therefore very few are exercising this right, as there is not enough resources in local authorities themselves. It didn't happen before. Now we welcome this first step, and if we are critical, it is not to dissuade what you are proposing just so that, knowing that this is the first step 'Cause that's what the minister said. Already design further and think about not missing anyone to reach out to those who are most in need. Because the money to separate everyone who wants it is probably never gonna be enough. So much for correcting and referring to previous statements. I myself was involved in proceding the previous bill proposed by Law and Justice, so that's where I started, and that's where I end up, to make amends to the President and to point out that these breasts and fists are right? I don't forget. We couldn't accept it then, there was no budget for it, so it's good that they are now. I think it's a shame that they're not targeted, but it's just a first step.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator in what mode? [[Because Senator Rulewski...]] But in what mode? Because there's no formula... [[Corrigendum.]] Correct? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u22	First of all, I address Senator Rulewski. Mr. Senator, I don't know when you noticed the aggression on my part, as a doctor and a senator, towards children. All I said was that she surprised me, she knocked you down on your knees to take care of this group. I didn't see it in the previous term, and even if you showed such concern, unfortunately nothing specific came out of it, because, as we can see, medicines free of charge for children have not been introduced. And the second vote of Senator Augustine. Well, I'm glad that in the second part of your speech you've noticed that this bill is going in the right direction and it's a good bill. Of course, you can always say that there is not enough money and that it is imperfect, but if you, as an opposition, cooperate with us, then, I think, we could improve a lot of things that you haven't had time for in the last eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u23	Thank you, Senator. Senator Robert Mammoth. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Kraska's colleague noticed what I noticed at the end of Senator Augustine's speech, which is good words. But I'd like to remind you 'Cause there aren't many people from the Platform from the previous term right now in the O.R. That you were against this law before. I remember asking you here to lean on this bill to support it. But no, you said, first of all, it's a bad bill, and second of all, there's no money for it. However, we have now found this money and we want to introduce this law. And I'd like you to at least be loyal to each other at this point, so that you can say, "Yes, if they have money, let them bring it in." Because the bill is needed, and I believe that you will support it, too. I believe that because I don't think you're really against her. It is simply the role of the opposition that is not different. But don't pretend sometimes, as Senator Kraska said... Because when a man listens to you today, he opens his eyes to some things, really. Especially my sympathetic colleague, Senator Rulewski. What he says sometimes is... I don't know. I know that social affairs are his hors d'oeuvres, but talking about something like adding children to this bill today is actually damaging this bill and putting it off for later. Let's do everything we can to get this bill into force because it's really necessary. Like I said, then we're going to take a big step forward and then we're really going to feel some inner satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Constantine Radziwił Now in the role of senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, as a member of this House, I would like to speak now. Well, we are in a situation where we face certain facts. The ageing of the Polish society, like all European societies, and basically almost all the world in relation to healthier lifestyles, as well as the development of medicine, is a fact. Unfortunately, in Poland the fact is also poor access to medicines. Not only in the group of older people, but of course in this group Statistically, you don't have to have a big imagination to imagine it. In a group of people with more chronic illness. It's just a fact, too. You can argue how many percent of these prescriptions are not bought and whether it concerns one or another part of the older people's community, but it is just a fact and there is nothing to argue about it. Because even if we lack current, most precise research, it is not only intuition, not only the experience of doctors, especially family doctors, but also various data from the less distant and more distant past confirm that it is just a fact as well. And now there is a question of how the Polish state will react to it. We are trying to respond responsibly because it is the responsibility of the public authority to ensure that everyone is protected by health and that citizens have real equal access to public-funded healthcare. Unfortunately, this equal access simply does not exist. In many studies Poland is at the forefront of health inequalities. It's also a term that involves, among other things. with poor access to drugs caused by financial barriers. Thus, we are trying to resolve these specific problems in a responsible manner as a result of the undisputed facts that we are dealing with. The solution is simple, it does not really mean mitraga and does not impose additional obligations on the elderly. If we're talking about 75+ people, we're also talking about 90+ and older people. If these people were to go anywhere after certificates confirming their income, we would probably lose a large part of them, because one of the reasons why people do not receive subsidies from local governments for their drug costs is precisely that it is so difficult to do so. It's not just a matter of lack of money in local governments. It's just that not everyone knows it, not everyone realizes where to go, how to do it, etc., etc. And we want this privilege for seniors to actually embrace all seniors. This is a simple solution, this is a concrete solution, it is not symbolic, and from year to year it will be more and more so that I say, non-symbolistic, because these funds will ultimately be as much as PLN 1 billion 200 million, and this coming from the state budget. Thus, this will not be based on seeming movements, moving money from one benefit to another, but on adding the money that is needed. And it's just that there's a consequence. Because it's not an art to say that society is getting older and that it's not good with access to drugs, and that it's a lot more complaining, but it's an art to find a way to at least start action to solve the problems that we're dealing with. Troubles that really need to be called challenges, because these are the challenges of today. We have to deal with this and we're taking the first step. And just as it rained here, and from my lips also, this is not a solution that saves the whole world. This is a first step solution, especially as regards access to medicines for the elderly. At the same time, the Ministry began work on the State's drug policy, which is also referred to as I don't want to say, "She's talking." It's been a long time, but you can't see it. We are now working on developing a comprehensive principle, which includes: removes this access barrier, which is not only for the elderly Okay, here's the deal. Also for other categories or groups of patients, the financial barrier to access to medicines. To conclude, I would like to say that the solution we are proposing is accepted, supported by nearly 100% Poles. Therefore, I have such a small dream that also in this House, that also senators, regardless of party origin, will see that there is simply such a need, there is such a real social demand, not some fantastic expectation, but a real social demand and a matter to be dealt with. Let's get her together by voting for this solution together. In the future, we will work on other documents that will solve the problem of access to medicines for other patient groups, but let's all take this step together. In my opinion, it can be shown that this House in particular takes on part the responsibility of the State to fulfil its constitutional obligations towards citizens in terms of providing them with real health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka and Senator Ryszard Majer made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. As the proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. Does the government representative, the minister, still want to speak? Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u28	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I'd like to make a few sentences. I'll take you a few minutes. To address the main substantive issues raised in this House. At first, I would also like to thank you for your substantive comments. I am convinced that these comments, which were unsubstantiated, constitute a certain element, I would say, of political action, but there were also many substantive comments here. Some of these cases will certainly be implemented in the near future, as the Ministry of Health has said. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing that I would like to emphasise, which was not mentioned today, is that medicines for seniors are designated from the state budget. They will be put at the disposal of the NFZ and it is from this money that medicines will be financed for seniors. Therefore, the implementation of this idea, the idea of free medicines for seniors, will not take place at the expense of financing other benefits in the basket of guaranteed benefits, so that money will not be collected from funds to finance those benefits which are needed today by Poles. These are additional health benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, are these big measures? I believe that these are big measures, because for every 12 months this programme will be devoted to more than PLN 500 million. Today, older people, in the 75+ group, pay additionally to the medicines refunded, i.e. the ones most important for maintaining health and life, PLN 860 million per year. This will therefore relieve the elderly from spending on medicines reimbursed by more than 60%. I would like to stress that there is a contradiction between the request to spend the same funds not only for the elderly, but also for the children, and the arguments raised here regarding the amount per month, per week, per day or per hour. If, under these measures, we included funding and the right to free treatment of medicines refunded by additional social groups, these measures would, of course, be even less. I would stress that this is the first step. This is a senior program, while the children's programme, the 500+ programme, is currently being implemented, so to speak, elsewhere. Another thing, ladies and gentlemen, which is the income criterion. It would have to be considered how much the system would have cost to verify this income, how much we would have to develop bureaucracy and what difficulties we would have introduced in implementing this income criterion for all seniors. They'd have to go to offices, collect all kinds of documents. This would be a huge burden not only for the official apparatus in Poland, but also for all seniors, especially for seniors. This would have to be verified and, in addition, the changing conditions would have to be confirmed every now and then. And the most important argument, ladies and gentlemen. I think seniors have all kinds of defects. Mental, physical. In the case of all Poles, the constitution does not issue any income criteria as important for the design of health care rules in Poland, but speaks about seniors. Hence, it seems to me that introducing an income criterion would be, as one senator said here, one of the elements of dismantling this system. I don't think it's applicable at this point. Ladies and gentlemen, today is free medicine. These are medicines used in mental illness and cancer. These drugs are characterized by very low moral gambling and very low risk of abuse on the part of healthcare providers, so they can be implemented free of charge. We're talking about drugs here. A list of medicines for seniors will be created anyway. Which are today with a payment of 30% And 50%. So often they will be drugs that are characterized by much higher moral gambling. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Augustine has told us about PolSenior's data. We have data from the NFZ for 2009, and next week we will provide you with accurate data from the NFZ on which age groups the most refunded drugs are used, very up-to-date data. On the basis of the 2009 data we have, I have to say that most medicines are consumed by people 70 and 75 and 80 years old; we take absolute numbers into account. If we apply the average life expectancy of a Pole, which is 76.8... I am convinced that the use of medication per person will be the highest in the age group 75 and above. This data will be sent soon. If PolSenior data conflict with this data when it comes to medicines refunded, I am very sorry. I have more confidence in the NFZ data. The last thing, actually, the penultimate thing, which is geriatrics. We were talking about the fact that as long as there's no computer system, The money was spent, but unfortunately it did not arise We can't make any breach here. Geriatrists will be representatives of the first medical specialty, who will be granted the right to prescribe free medicines for seniors. It will happen then, as soon as the IT system that monitors medical prescription is available, but it will still take time. I would like to highlight here the benefits that we have talked about many times, from the limitation of medical prescription to primary health care doctors and primary healthcare nurses, which are associated with the coordination of treatment and the reversal of the unfavourable structure of health services in Poland. A POZ doctor can eliminate various adverse events such as polypragma or drug interactions resulting from the fact that different doctors prescribe medicines and one does not know what the other prescribes. And one last thing, ladies and gentlemen. I remind you that the Refund Act has been in operation since 2012. Refund and price criteria and the procedure for issuing the notice every 2 months have been adopted by the previous Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, we will, of course... I mean, we are planning to change this mode, and we would like the announcement to be published every four months. And I hope that you will all support this request, which will soon be sent to the High House. As far as chronic diseases are concerned, countries, applications for treatment with such and not other medicines in chronic diseases are subject to a reimbursement procedure in accordance with these criteria. If some medicine did not get into the refund, e.g. for children with diabetes, allergies or asthma, he did not get on the flat-rate list, these are important reasons. If this drug is included in the list of medicines with a 30-percent fee and not a flat-rate list, then there are important reasons for this. And if he didn't get on the list of refunded drugs at all, apparently these mentioned criteria of the drug didn't pass up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 116 and the report of the Commission In prints No 116 A and 116 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Michał Sewerynski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions makes a proposal to approve a draft law amending the Ombudsman Act and certain other laws with amendments annexed here. The purpose of the Act is to clarify the procedure before the Sejm for the abolition of immunity, possibly for the Sejm's consent to detention or arrest, or to hold the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, the General Data Protection Officer, the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of Children's Rights criminally liable. The rules on these issues were incomplete, this law complements them. And contrary to what is given in its title itself, it actually covers all the offices and posts I have mentioned. These changes were necessary so that the proceedings before the Sejm concerning the matters I had said could be conducted without obstacles. In the course of the discussion, some amendments were proposed and there are as many as 22. Most of these are amendments which are technical in nature, but some of them are substantive in nature and can actually be reduced to one amendment: in relation to the authorities I have mentioned... It is about an amendment which could harmonise the content of the immunity granted to these persons. One provision has been proposed for all of these offices, namely that these persons cannot be detained or held liable in criminal matters without the prior consent of the Sejm. And in this case, this provision is uniform for all other officials, not just for the ombudsman. That is the main substantive amendment. During the discussion in the committee, doubts were raised as to whether this amendment was entitled, given that it modifies the wording contained in the Constitution, in the part concerning the immunity of those persons. He argued that during the previous term of office we had a change of similar nature relating to judges, and there we also made a modification of their constitutional immunity, which was that we allowed the judges to accept a mandate for traffic offences without having to go to court. The same way was proposed in the amendment relating to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber The amendment we have designed allows him, without waiting for the permission of the Sejm, to agree to be held liable for traffic offences. This would be complete information on the direction of changes and the content of amendments to this law, as well as the amendments that have been made. As I said, the vast majority of these amendments are improving, editorial, and technical legislative. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted together with the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee on the Law on the amendment of the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 18 March 2016. The purpose of these changes has already been told by the rapporteur of the Human Rights Committee, Senator Severinski. As regards the amendments that have been adopted by the Rules of Procedure, they are broadly in line with the amendments made by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Except for the fact that the committee has supplemented these amendments with the possibility of accepting criminal liability for offences which we contractually refer to as the road inspector, the General Data Protection Officer, the President of the Institute of National Remembrance and the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted together with the amendments proposed and adopted by the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls, so thank you... [[Maybe me.]] You're welcome. Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would ask Senator Sewerinski that question. As regards the immunity of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber as well as the Ombudsman, they are in addition regulated in the Constitution. So we have a constitutional rank here. I understand this ordering, this alignment, that is, that in the case of all the parties, these rules should be the same, but... in the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator, we have a record that has been transferred... He concerns the Ombudsman and the President of NIK. We have a record in the bill that the application for consent to hold the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber liable for criminal offences prosecuted by a public prosecution is filed through the Attorney General. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 2th sentence is: a request for consent to bring the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber to criminal justice in a private prosecution case shall be filed by a private prosecutor after the case has been brought before the court. The same is true of the ombudsman. I have this question: whether this extension of this provision to the question of liability in a private prosecution case will not result in both the Ombudsman and the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber... The point is that applications for prosecution from a private prosecution can be made in a large number, which may in some way paralyze the functioning of these authorities. Like I said, this immunity is a constitution. I don't know if there was a discussion about this at the committee meeting. As far as the prosecution is concerned, I do not believe that it should be against the President and the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u35	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u36	Mr Senator, this matter was not discussed at the committee meeting, but I can tell you from my own point of view that the Sejm, the supreme body, the parliamentary body, is at the heart of the reasonableness of the action in this area. So the fear that this high-ranking official we're trying to protect with immunity is premature. We are now talking about the future, about what may be possible, the potential consequences of this law, but the highest authority will protect it, so I personally have no such concerns. I believe that the unworthy conduct of such an official may be expressed in an act which is prosecuted by a private accusation, and there is no reason for the victim to refuse the possibility of seeking satisfaction under criminal liability, under judicial responsibility. But whether you do it or not, it will be decided by the court. I think that's enough security... [[Sejm.]] I'm sorry, Sejm. This is sufficient security. It is difficult to imagine a more constable and serious guardian of our irresponsibleness in the event of such an office than the Sejm. It's harder to secure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u37	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes.]] Welcome to the meeting of the representative of the Ministry of Justice, Undersecretary of State, Minister Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u38	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try to speak briefly, because the government's position is in principle in favour of both the draft and the amendments tabled by the High House and presented by the rapporteurs' senators, but with one exception. It is proposed that both the first and second reports, namely the report of the first and second committees, should be made available to the public. I'll use the shortcut you used, Senator Sewerinski. In the case of minor traffic offences, there was an opportunity to adopt a mandate, and this whole waiver procedure should not have been involved in such minor cases. The Government, and on behalf of the Government, the Ministry of Justice, does not raise any objections as to the appropriateness of such a procedure. The only problem, but the problem that is important here, is the constitutional problem. In contrast to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 of the Constitution, which allows the senators and Members to waive their own immunity, the relevant provisions concerning the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber In this case, Art. 206 Constitution This possibility of surrendering immunity does not foresee. Hence the negative position of the Ministry of Justice in this respect. In short, here the constitution should be changed in this direction, not done by law. The purpose of the bill itself is obvious. The point is to standardize it. But we are not able to harmonise everything in a situation where the Constitution treats Members and Senators differently and treats the President of the Supreme Auditorium or the Ombudsman differently. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that if the proposal of the two committees concerning the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber were accepted, there would be no uniformity again, as Article. 206 of the Constitution concerning the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber is formulated in roughly the same way as the Article. 211 concerning the Ombudsman, and in the case of the ombudsman, there were no such proposals. So anyway, it's gonna be uneven. But if it's to be inconsistent, because that's what the constitution requires, then that's how it has to be, in the opinion of the government represented by the Minister of Justice. If I may refer to Senator Flork's question and, by the way, complete the rapporteur's statement, I will say that the solution to the private complaint offences is a solution modelled on the article. Article 7b (7) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. It seems that the same procedure, which concerns Members and Senators, can and should apply as far as possible in the case of the Ombudsman and the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Hence the positive position of the Ministry of Justice regarding the project in this passage. As for the other things, because there are no comments or objections from the government, I will not take up any more time with the senators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Bear, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u40	Mr Marshal, Minister, I would like to address just these two elements that you have said. The first element is the difference in immunity that arises from the Constitution. I just wanted to ask... In our previous term of office, we gave judges whose immunity is also based on the Constitution, the possibility of giving up this immunity in the event of traffic offences. That thought, I think, guided both committees. I'm a member of one of these committees. # To unite it # right in this direction, not to make any breach, but also to give the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber or the Ombudsman the right to waive immunity in the event of traffic offences. This breach has already been made in the previous term of office, and now on the occasion of the amendment of this law, which, I believe, is good, because it unifies certain activities that were not quite clear. Maybe that's where it would be worth going. What is the Minister's opinion on this matter? The second point is the possibility of giving immunity to the Ombudsman and the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber to a private action. Don't you think, Minister, that this could make it a major obstacle for these two actors to do their job? However, what is different is the execution of the mandate of a Member or a Senator, and what is different is the performance of the duties by the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control and the Ombudsman. They are more likely to enter into conflicts, and these conflicts, the violation of the interests of some entities, may result in the fact that these entities, in order to avoid the possibility... or otherwise, in order to mitigate the position of the President of the NIK or the Ombudsman, will come forward with proposals from a private action for the waiver of immunity in order to weaken these actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u42	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you for these questions, because they really concern important issues. The discussion on what was done in the previous parliamentary term with the example of judges took place during the meeting of the committee at which I was present, of the first sitting. Well, the position of the Ministry of Justice is that the previous... At that time it was presented by another minister, after all in a completely different arrangement, but this position is uniform: that law seems to be incompatible with the constitution. Well, despite the kind of signals that were made by the Ministry of Justice, as well as many, many opinions actually uniform, because I don't think it was against Parliament, both of its chambers, he was willing to make a bill in such a way, not in a different way. The National Judicial Council threatened to sue this bill, probably will. Why didn't she do it until today? Well, it's not for me to answer on behalf of the National Judicial Council. I'm here on behalf of the government, but I'm a judge assigned to the ministry, so I know how it works in the judicial community. It works in this way, High Izbo, that on the one hand the judge may accept a mandate, acknowledge his guilt in the offence, most often the road, and on the other hand it does not waive his disciplinary responsibility. Therefore, he begins to be punished twice because of that bill. And that's not a good solution, either from constitutional or from any other point of view. Perhaps it would be as useful as I suggested in the case of the Ombudsman, and the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber: a change of constitution. A change concerning judges, prosecutors and those two high authorities in order to allow, in fact, in the case of minor cases, such an option as a waiver of immunity. But now the constitution is what it is, and we're not discussing the constitution today. As for the second situation... Well, the Ministry of Justice, acting on behalf of the government, assumes that crime is a crime. Whether private or public, it is an important charge of social harm in a given behaviour and the State decides to punish the act. Of course, everything can be used instrumentally. You can imagine talking and trying to unsubstantiate private complaint proceedings against senators or Members, but you can't see it on a larger scale. Therefore, it does not seem to us that such situations also occur in the case of the President The House of Control or the ombudsman at the most. It seems that both the role and opportunities of a parliamentarian, either from one chamber or from the other, as well as these two important, high state bodies are so important that they can actually cause such temptations. But here, firstly, there is a certain control, and secondly, the observation of the practice with regard to Members and Senators does not confirm that such phenomena are of a non-accidental nature.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u43	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u44	Minister, I am not convinced by your argument about this private accusation. Because if we are transferring this from the mandate of Member and Senator, I would like to point out that Members are 460 Senators, 100 Senators, and the President of the Supreme Auditorium and the Ombudsman are single-member bodies. However, the situation here is quite different, if it were indeed found that a large number of requests would be made from private actions, which could make the action more difficult. In the case of a Member, in a situation where there are 460 Members, it is not of great importance. However, I believe that this provision is a little too drastic as regards the President and the Ombudsman, and that it may cause these authorities to actually be so burdened that they will not be able to carry out their duties, which, however, they are burdened with. That is my opinion in this respect. Well, I'm different with the Minister here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u45	But, Senator, now is not the time for opinions, just questions. No questions asked. Yes, thank you very much. [[It was a question...]] It wasn't a question, Senator, it was an opinion. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that... [[Mr. Marshal...]] You have to sign up, Mr. Senator, not sign up from the spot so you can sign up. I understand you want to speak. Yes? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator Andrzej Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will not discuss this issue extensively, because what was said in the course of the questions and answers basically exhausted the substance load of what I wanted to say. But I would like to draw attention to just one thing and make an amendment, or actually two amendments. Namely, I have a different opinion as to the possibility of applying for the waiver of immunity from a private action. The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber and the Ombudsman in their tasks and activities are more exposed than Members and Senators to all kinds of pressures. We are aware that if the Supreme Audit Chamber is in control and notes that in a controlled entity, let's assume something is wrong, there are serious irregularities, then the persons responsible in this entity may try to put pressure on the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, e.g. by submitting an application from a private claim. And it's all about blocking this possibility, because otherwise there may be a disruption of the performance of tasks by the President of NIK and the Ombudsman. I therefore make an amendment aimed at amending the law in this respect. I would like to make another minor amendment. Namely in the bill we are debating In the same way as in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, I think this has escaped our attention. It is referred to that the prohibition of detention covers all forms of deprivation or limitation of personal liberty of the Ombudsman, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Members and Senators by coercive authorities. Does this mean that authorities that do not apply coercion can deprive or restrict their freedom? I propose that in all places simply delete the words by those who use coercive force, because this wording restricts only the authorities who use coercion, and if the authority is not a coercive authority, it means that it may restrict the freedom of a Member, a Senator, an Ombudsman or the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. And I am making an appropriate amendment in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Andrzej Biesiołek. The discussion is closed. Mr. Minister, would you like to refer to this amendment... these amendments, because they were amendments? Isn't it? You don't have to... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm just gonna say one thing. It's probably my failure. I didn't pay attention to this discussion about private complaint crimes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the constitution does not divide crimes into public and private charges, the constitution does not exclude the criminality of acts prosecuted on a private complaint in relation to certain categories. In this case, we are talking about the category of people with high government offices, namely the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control and the Ombudsman. The role of the ordinary legislator here is to determine the procedure, how to attempt to prosecute a criminal offence. Where this is a public complaint act, it is obvious that such an attempt is done through the Attorney General. In private complaint mode, that's not an option, because that's where the D.A. might not be. So there's got to be another mode. This mode, which exists, has been tested in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, so it is a proven mode without any major doubts. I respect the doubts expressed by your senators, but I must say again that in order to remedy these doubts, we should be discussing amending the Constitution in this regard and not amending the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 121 and the report of the Commission In print No 121 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Michał Sewerynski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions requests the adoption by the High Senate of this law amending the law on the system of common courts, the law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws. The Senate's bill has basically three objectives to meet. First of all, it is about removing the regulatory disadvantages contained in the Law on the system of common courts relating to the seat of judges. The point is that, according to today's Act, the Minister learns about the dismissal of the judge after the fact, which makes it difficult for him to dispose of the vacant posts in advance in accordance with the needs of the judiciary. Prior notification of what will be required by the law now submitted to the Senate When the judge retires and does not intend to take advantage of the extended length of time in his post, he is to improve the economy of the posts just released by the retired judges. The second objective of the Act is to restore the conditions that must be met so that the Minister of Justice can dismiss the head of the national school we are talking about. In the opinion of the authors of the draft law, and this is a parliamentary project The re-introduction of those conditions which have previously been applied and on which the possibility of dismissing the head of the national school will lead to a better regulation of the relationship between the Minister of Justice and the Director of the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office in relation to the public status of that institution that educates candidates for the office of judge and prosecutor. A novelty in this area will be the imposition on the Minister of Justice of the obligation to consult both the National Judicial Council and the National Prosecutor's Council at the Attorney General. The third objective of the Act is to change the training of applicants accordingly. It is intended to maintain the current model of education at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office for one year longer. At the same time, the Act provides that the existing system of training on judicial and prosecutorial applications will be maintained until 2020. This means that in respect of applicants who will start training in 2016 and 2018, the changes that have previously been introduced on the way in which applicants are employed by judges and prosecutors will not be applied. The removal of this reform in time gives us the opportunity to think more deeply about the whole system of judicial training, judicial and prosecutorial applicants, which is widely advocated by the judicial community, the National Council of Judicial Affairs and the National Council of Prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Is anybody checking in? No. Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Łukasz Piebiak is with us. Minister, right? You're welcome. Please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. I'll be brief. On behalf of the government, I am signing in full what the rapporteur, Senator Severinski, has said. There are a few topics in this bill. They are all very important from the point of view of the judiciary, the future road to the judicial office, the normal, undistorted functioning of the proven model of application and the time that we need in order to develop a new model, a better model of investigation for the judicial service and for the prosecution service in the Ministry of Justice. I merely remind you, because it was at the committee meetings that was said, that you informed the director of the National Court School and the Public Prosecutor's Office that tomorrow in Krakow will have a conference, which everyone is invited to, which is at the heart of this topic. The results of this conference will be such a start. a new legislative initiative by the Ministry of Justice. We need this time so that we can work calmly and work out a good project that we hope will High The House is ready to announce. I would like to ask the senators to support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators... I don't see any volunteers. No one wants to ask the Minister anything. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. There's no one like that. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Forests. The text of the Act is contained in print No 148 and the committee's report in print No 148 A. [[Senator, you're on your way.]] It is now so slowly I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee. [[Senator, you're not here.]] He's on his way, so we wait a while, we won't even announce a break. Unless you have to. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At its meeting yesterday, the Environment Commission discussed the bill which the Marshal of the Sejm sent to the Senate Marshal, the Law on the amendment of the Law on State Forests, print No 148. During the discussion at the committee meeting, questions were asked to the Minister, explanations were presented and, as a result of this debate, discussions and discussions, the senators adopted the draft law submitted by the Sejm on amending the Law on forests without amendments. Allow me to briefly present the subject matter that was discussed at the meeting of the Senate Committee on the Environment. The bill was a government project. It will enable the State Forests to fulfil their obligation to expand state forests as a country's strategic natural resources, in accordance with the Act of 6 July 2001 on maintaining the national nature of the country's strategic natural resources. According to the article. 3 of this law, the management of strategic natural resources should be carried out in the interests of the general good in accordance with the principle of sustainable development. Among other things, State Forests are obliged to keep the state forests in their current state, to expand their area and to improve their functioning. The adoption of the proposed law will also enable This Decision is addressed to the Member States. It should be clarified that the Act in question will be correlated with the Act to suspend the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury and to amend certain laws, the draft of which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 14 April 2016. In the document presented, one can say, it is done, among others. changes similar to changes in the agricultural system law are foreseen to include instruments such as the right to buy-in and buy-out already applicable to agricultural property. Solutions are introduced to enable the State Treasury, represented by the State Forest Farm, to acquire the State Forests, on the basis of the right of first purchase or the so-called right to purchase forest land, which will be disposed of by natural persons, legal persons or organisational units without legal personality, to which the law grants legal capacity. The law will apply to land designated as forests in the register of land and buildings, land intended to be forested in the local spatial management plan or in the decision on the conditions for the construction and development of the land, as well as land fulfilling the definition of the forest and covered by the simplified plan for the installation of the forest or the decision of the old forest on the basis of forest inventory. The right of first purchase will apply to cases where the land is purchased under a sales contract and the right of redemption will apply to cases where the land is purchased under a contract other than a sales contract, e.g. exchange or donation, or on the basis of unilateral legal action. The Law also provides for sanctions for non-compliance with its requirements. The operation carried out contrary to the provisions of the Act will simply be void. Solutions do not interfere It's very important. In the Constitutional essence of ownership. If the owner wishes to dispose of the land, it retains the basic attribute of its ownership, that is, the right to dispose of the land, the right to dispose of the property. If you prefer to sell things because it will become too expensive, but the buyer will be the Treasury. It should also be pointed out that the right of first purchase and redemption will not apply to disposals to loved ones and inheritances, both legal and testamental. What is also important is the law in the light of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, where all restrictions on the movement of capital between Member States and between them and third countries are prohibited, and the trading of immovable property with an aspect of freedom of movement of capital... This law does not in any way interfere with these fundamental issues, the right to the free movement of capital, and does not oppose those Treaty provisions, which are, inter alia, in the Treaty of the European Union. So that the expansion of state forest areas and the implementation of the country's forest growth programmes is undoubtedly in the vital public interest, and the measures envisaged in the project for this purpose are equal for all, adequate and proportionate. For the reasons set out, I kindly ask you to adopt this law on the amendment of the Forest Act. Let me remind you that the committee had a discussion. The law was adopted unanimously without amendment. I ask the High House to have the same attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski is the first. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u56	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, rapporteur. I would like to stress that he is a highly experienced senator. After listening to your report, but not being a member of this committee, I am deeply disappointed. My question is this. One day, 1 million people signed to make the woods national. As far as I know, you belonged to those people who supported this process... your colleague, the current Minister for Environmental Protection... Meanwhile, the government, the PiS environment, passes the bill here... as a matter of fact, just an adjustment, according to which At the end, you gave it to me. It is possible to move capital, i.e. to sell forests. So this is the departure from this referendum promise, under which 1 million people signed, according to which forests would be a national good, not a national one, for which I am of course in favour. The question is, why did you leave this national and social dimension of state forests?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u57	Thank you very much, senator, for that question. I would like to say explicitly that this question is actually addressed with such care that the state forests are state forests, so that they are practically national. And that's where this bill is headed. So it's all about getting more and more of our country's forest. To the assumed level of 33% in 2010 But also so that forests, you can say, can manage their resources properly, transparently and economically. Indeed, we have collected signatures to avoid hindering the functioning of forests, but these were completely different situations which concerned precisely that period, which was mentioned by the senator. As for that period, it was all about... We wanted the State Forests to have the opportunity to self-finance themselves so that the State Forests could maintain their financial condition so that they would not be burdened with excessive fiscalism. In part we managed to do this, but to a large extent we failed to do it because, ladies and gentlemen, you voted just to charge them with a turnover tax of 2%. To allocate over PLN 1 billion... over PLN 1.5 billion to roads from the State Forests. It was a load. Today, thanks to the adoption of this law, we want to lead to such a situation that the stock of State Forests will increase, that the stock of State Forests will be larger, that the citizen who wants to dispose of his forest property will be able to dispose of it, except that the State Forests will have the right to buy or buy this agricultural property on a market-wide basis. So the seller will be able to sell the property he owns to the State Forests at market prices. And that's what the bill says. Thank you again for asking the question. [[So there's no constitutional guarantee?]] There's a constitutional guarantee. This law is not contrary to either the Constitution or the European Treaty. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u58	Thank you very much. Senator Florek, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, At first, I would like you to explain to me something about the scale of the problem, about the forests, so that you can tell me what it looks like. We talk a lot about forestism in Poland, about the fact that after the war, since 1946 this forestism has grown from 20 percent to how many percent there. I would like to know what it looks like on a European scale. Was there a discussion on this subject, and do you have such data? If not, I'll ask the Minister for an answer. What does it look like on the scale of Europe in terms of the number of hectares that are wooded in Poland? What is the percentage when it comes to Poland? Are we, on a European scale, a significant country in terms of deforestation? What does it look like in other countries? In my second question, I'm going further in this direction. How many hectares of forest Or what percentage is it? They have State Forests, and how many private forests are there in Poland? It's about us being able to tell the difference. This law generally concerns state forests, although also private ones, but we know that we have a different situation than in the case of agriculture. Because in the case of agriculture, the majority of individual farmers are owners in Poland, and here we have the opposite situation, because the state is generally the owner of almost all or most of the forests. Do you have such information, such information, that the rapporteur has?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u60	I think the Minister will answer the first question very precisely because he is a forester and it will be easier for him to speak. We did not ask such questions, because this was not the subject of a committee meeting. I think your curiosity will satisfy the Minister. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in Poland there is a national programme to increase forestality. This national programme assumes that by 2050. 33% the surface of the country will be forested. And this law, you can say, is part of this forest-enhancing program. And that's probably the essence of this bill, that this law is sort of fulfilling the task that has been put before the Forests and before you. I'm just gonna finish one more thing. Indeed, Polish forests are generally state-owned. Just a small part... I don't think I'm going to remember exactly how much I don't want to mislead you, and I think the minister is going to tell you that, too. Probably more than 90% of forests are in the hands of the Polish state, i.e. in the hands of the State Forests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u61	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have this question: was there a discussion at the committee meeting, as far as the area of State Forests, the State Forests, could possibly increase as a result of the act of this law? Were there any estimates? Did they say what it is, say, the annual turnover of forest real estate in Poland, what is the scale of it? And the other thing. I would like to say that Senator Rulewski is wrong because this motion for a referendum has signed over 2.5 million people, as far as I know, and not just 1 million, as you pointed out, Senator Rulewski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u63	I'll start from the end, if you'll excuse me. Indeed, more than 2.5 million people have signed up to a proposal on the protection of state forests so that state forests are properly managed so that they can be retained as our national welfare. Because it's a non-multiple good. We a hectare of forest will not multiply, a hectare of forest will be an hectare of forest. It is important to manage in this area so that the forest can actually be a forest, not a wasteland or some other part of some real estate. In relation to the National Lesity Enhancement Programme, we have received this information within 5 years. In fact, 272 ha have been purchased, which means that the state forests have grown. This is not exactly the expected enlargement of forests. Therefore, I will stress once again: this law is therefore, this law is in order to make this lesity significantly increase, so that the national programme to increase forestality in the Polish country is implemented as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u64	Thank you very much. Senator Dobrzyński's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator, can Senator Rulewski's statement that this bill allows the sale of state forests be called manipulation? And can we also say if it's not what you say the senator is saying, and I don't think it is, that this 1 million 800 thousand signatures are actually consuming? I would like to ask for a clear answer, Mr. Senator, because here was the charge that we defended the State Forests as a formation of Law and Justice, to enable the sale of the Civic Platform, and now they are calling themselves defenders. This was particularly evident in Mr Rulewski's statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u66	I have to tell you that Senator Dobrzyński is really concerned about matters related to the forests, but he also somehow assumes the goodwill of the senators who ask the question. I hope that Senator Rulewski wanted to know about the situation that happened, that he was not aware of the situation, and that may be why he asked such a question. Indeed, the actions that were taken in the previous term of office in the previous period were aimed at protecting forests from excessive fiscalism, excessive burdens. I think the senator expects such an answer. It raised concerns that forests could later have economic problems, that there would be excessive fiscalism, an excessive burden that could somehow contribute to the crisis in the State Forests. I think that now is the time, the time to give the State Forests a chance to develop properly, to manage their property properly and, of course, to national good. [[Thank you, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u67	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Czerwinski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u68	Mr President, I have a question of the following kind. Well, a week ago, we adopted similar laws, a little more extensive, regarding the protection of the earth. Forest protection rules should be consistent with each other. In that law, discussed a week ago, in the case of succession, we were only talking about statutory inheritance, and in this law we allow such a possibility that the right of redemption, as you called it, by the State Forests does not apply also to will inheritance, i.e. this exception is extended. In this case, why are we a little thinning up this law compared to the Land Protection Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u69	We can't talk about sealing here, we can only talk about a certain way out. I think there's a social expectation, too, to make that happen. And I think a society with understanding will accept this record. So that it's not a burden for society, for the environment, for owners who will own their own private property. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u70	Thank you, Senator. Senator Dobkowski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. If the neighbouring forest parcels are owned by private persons and foresight, e.g. Two individuals have... And, let's say, there's also two narrow sections of the soundtrack. I understand that if a private person wants to sell his share to a private person, to a neighbour, then the right of the first-timer is simply foreword. But can you do so that these people just switch, i.e. that one private person will take over part of another private person's plot, and the other part will be the other? And will it be, for example. the possibility of swapping cannons, which is, let's say, one part of the plot will give one private person, and another part of the plot, on the other hand, will take over the other private person? Will that be possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u73	Dear Senator, High Izbo! It will practically look like that the interested owner of forest land, the forest will go to the notary and say that he wants to sell his property. Maybe he's got a favored contractor, and he wants to sell it to him. Therefore, the notary will draw up a preliminary agreement and inform the Director of State Forests. The Director of State Forests has 30 days to make the right decision on the right of first purchase or the right of redemption. If this right is not exercised within 30 days, then practically the transaction is made between the parties concerned. If e.g. there will be a possible exchange, exchange, additions, I think it will already be directly, you can say, cooperation with the forestry or with the director of the State Forests in order to agree on certain exchanges. I think that the exchange will always take place under the rules of the Civil Code, in this case there is no sale, only the exchange of real estate, and this is a completely different topic. This law concerns only the sale of real estate and forest land. [[So you can't change it?]] I'm pretty sure it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u74	Thank you, Senator. Senator Florek is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u75	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Rapporteur, the bill introduces changes to the Forest Act. I'm talking about the land for the forest. We're actually dealing with expropriation here, because if the land, the land will be used for deforestation, for example. in the spatial planning plan, he is of course the head of the organizational unit I mean, in this case, it's probably a foreword. It will be able to apply for the acquisition of this land. It is written in the Act, in the paragraph. 2 that the forest or land intended for forestation may be acquired in particular in the case of Here we have used the phrase "in particular" in the case of "and we have mentioned 3 cases "of its direct attachment to the land remaining on the board of State Forests, the abolition of co-ownership of the forest, as I read in a nutshell, and the regulation of the course of the north-forest border. So we have a definition, in particular, and we have three cases. We are talking about a very important matter, which is written in the Constitution, because in fact we are talking about expropriation. Therefore, I have a question: was it mentioned in the committee about whether this is a closed catalogue or not? Because the record, in particular, indicates that it is not. And if not, it means that both adjacent land and land If we can then treat it as an open directory The non-advantaged ones will be bought out. Therefore, I think it should be a closed directory so that there is no doubt. If it turns out that he is open, I am already saying that I will submit an amendment to the bill, so that it is clear, in this important case, when we are dealing with de facto expropriation, so that it can be clearly written when this land can be bought out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u76	Dear Senator, I just want to stress that these legal solutions do not interfere with the constitutional essence of ownership. That article you quoted doesn't interfere with property rights, which means he won't... he won't extort the land owner from owning the land. This isn't about expropriation. This law only applies if the owner concerned wants to get rid of the forest property. That's what this is about. I think you'll be able to ask the Minister... [[As part of the replica, I'm going to ask the Minister...]] But you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u77	There are three cases here. We have a de facto buyout, expropriation, and we have other acquisitions on the basis of a statement, and possibly where the Minister may exercise the right of pre-emption, but these are different... I'm just talking about a case of practical expropriation, but that's what I'm gonna ask the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u78	Mr. Senator, as a voivode, who, you know, has taken expropriation measures, knows in which particular cases expropriations are carried out. Actually, in this case, it's a use, in my opinion, there isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u79	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u80	I am, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have two questions. First question. The Lord mentioned in his statement that the right of first purchase would be exercised in such a way that it would occur at market prices. And if there is a dispute between the sellers and the Forests about the valuation of this property, then does it go on a judicial path? How will this be done practically, from the side already, I would say, a citizen? That's the first question. Question two. What's the situation... After all, there are different areas around the woods, recreational, non-recreational, etc. Often their status, like the status of real estate that stands on such plots, is quite unclear. Either it's a civil suite, or someone says the property was built before 1972, and they're trying to legalize it... There are quite a number of such areas, especially in naturally attractive places. And now, if someone wants to throw away a plot on which, let's say, there's a recreation house in the immediate vicinity of the forest, will that matter be subject to the bill, or will it not be subject to it? Will it depend on what's in the real estate specification? I'm talking about those letters. As if you were practically willing to explain... Because these are questions that often come to me on the occasion of this very useful law. But just to settle it. Thank you. [[Well, let me start by asking you a second question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u82	Mr. Senator, the State Forests manage under the Forest Law and do not engage in recreational activities, and are to acquire only forest land or adjacent forest land, so that it can be properly managed in the forest economy. And I think that the director of the State Forests, who will of course be interested in this law and obliged it to manage the property entrusted properly, will examine whether the matter is in the interests of the Forests and proper implementation of the Forest Law or not. I think that these cases will not be in the interest of proper management under the Forest Act. As regards the first question, concerning the exercise of the right of first purchase or redemption and what will happen when the situation arises that the owners concerned will determine the price of the property and that the price of the property will be the subject of the transaction, if it turns out that the price is abnormally excessive, so that, for example. Forests didn't buy such property, so the director of State Forests will be able to appeal to the court and assess whether the price is right or wrong. Of course, an expert expert will then be appointed, an assessor, who will determine the market price.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u83	I'd like to ask the senator again. Forests may have the right of first purchase in relation to forest land, that is clear, but also to land adjacent to forests - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. If so, that's a problem. But I'm gonna ask the Minister. [[No...]] The adjoining ones, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u84	If, in the installation plan, the land is intended for deforestation, then yes. [[Only when they're meant to be forested?]] Yes, because there are also agricultural areas that are not intended for deforestation, and then they are not subject to this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u85	Good. Thank you. Senator... [[Voice from the hall: Florek first...]] Oh, Senator Florek, one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u86	Mr. Marshal, Mr. rapporteur, I'd like to know... Recently, we talked about the law on restricting the sale of real estate in the Treasury. There was talk of churches and religious unions that they could acquire land on an equal footing with individual farmers, and they could buy it out. And according to this law, churches and religious associations cannot acquire forest land. I don't really understand what the difference is. In a similar law is the same purpose, and according to one law they can acquire, and according to the other They can't. Is that an oversight? Have any of you, I don't know, Members or Senators of Law and Justice forgotten to add this? Because in that bill, it was an amendment. Is that an oversight? And if this isn't an oversight, then I don't really understand what the difference is and why in one case they can and in another they can't.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u87	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u88	As draftsman of the committee, I did not see us discuss this at the committee meeting. I must also say that I have not met with the law to prohibit the acquisition of forest property by religious unions and churches. Of course, if the Director agrees... Let me rephrase: being the owner of the forest, I sell it for example. Some church, and it's gonna be on general terms. And then it's the director of the State Forests who decides whether he buys it or not. If it benefits, the church or the religious union of this forest will not buy, and if it does not, then the church will acquire this property. That's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u89	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u90	Dear Senator, the Legal Office of the Senate has submitted comments and has proposed amendments to this law. I would like to ask you to know how the committee responded to these comments and proposals by the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u91	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u92	Yes, six comments were made by the Legislative Bureau. But after hearing the explanation of the representative of the Ministry of Environment, the senators considered that there was no need for legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u93	Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u94	Now, back to the previous question... Well, there's a difference, it's that the agency doesn't have the right to pre-emption, and here, as you said correctly, it's expected that the Forests will eventually be able to exercise that right, but it's not the same thing. And I'd have a question like that. In the first part where it was referred to as deforestation, we are generally dealing, as I call it, with expropriation, with the right of pre-emption and possibly with the right to make a statement. I have this question: in these three cases, is it possible to withdraw from the transaction if the parties do not reach a financial consensus? Well, somebody wants to sell the woods, somebody else wants to buy the woods, but for example. The State Forests will benefit from the right of first purchase, and there is a question of price reconciliation. Is there a possibility, as in the case of agricultural land... Because, as I recall, such an amendment was in this law on agricultural land. If I want to sell the forest and I don't get along with the person who wants to buy it, and there's gonna be an intervention of the State Forests, is there a way out of this deal or not? Is it just that, as you said, Oh, it's over. There's no turning back. Do we have to sell this forest? Is that a possibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u95	Thank you. It is always possible to dispose of your property, of course, until a certain point. A person who wants to exercise his property rights and get rid of his property goes to a notary and signs with the person he designates a preliminary contract, a contract which is already binding in some way, because it was concluded before the notary. And if, at this point, they interfere with the Forests, and it turns out that the price of this property is non-market, that it is overpriced or even astronomical, the Forests may, as has already been said, apply for a valuation of this property. And the price of the forest... But at this point the forest is sold because it was sold when the initial sale agreement was signed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u96	Senator Rotnicka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u97	I'm gonna ask the question I've already put in committee. The point is that if the State Forests apply for a new valuation without recognising the price proposed by the seller, and the party which concluded the initial sale agreement will find that the price does not satisfy it, because it is much lower than expected, it will be possible to withdraw from the sales contract in such a situation. I asked such a question, and from one of the ladies on the government side I received this answer: sometimes yes and sometimes no, depending on how the contract was drawn up. So I'd like to ask you Maybe I'll ask that question again to the government's side. For clarification of the situations in which the contract may be waived and in which circumstances the contract may not be withdrawn. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: If I may.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u98	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u99	I used to work at the Agricultural Property Agency and similar situations took place when the parties made transactions, e.g. Someone was selling property to a neighbor or a stranger, but it was a preliminary contract, and then a notary sent a letter to the Agricultural Property Agency asking if the agency would benefit from the right of first purchase. And the agency usually gave up because she didn't have any money. There was always little money in the budget, and usually only information was passed on to the notary that the agency would not exercise the right of first purchase. The transaction was already concluded, the price was already given, it was only a question of whether the agency would benefit from the right of first purchase. If she had, she would have paid the price she had entered in the notarial act. [[Thank you...]] I suspect... I'm sure it will be the same in this situation. [[But if the price is lower, the agency will say... because the judge or somebody else will say that at this lower price, the agency will buy it, and the seller will say no, no, I wouldn't sell it at that price.]] We can talk about it, because there are really some dilemmas and such distractions... The valuer takes into account all the advantages of agricultural property... Well, we'd have to put up a valuer here to tell us what those qualities are. The plot can be attractive in such a way that someone can build a superaltane on it, a spa, and the valuer must also consider it. After all, the valuer will not take the price from the ceiling, so he will not lower the price in a gross way. There's only one fear that someone who wants to sell that kind of property to a particular person might have a problem with not selling it to that person, only the State Forests can buy it out, and that's why they're gonna charge the price. And that cuts through this case: there will be an assessor who will make a decision in an objective, judicial way, if necessary... [[The handle's gone.]] And the handle fell, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u100	Now I'd like to ask you about the answer to the question. What is the financial situation of the Forests? Aren't the Forests gonna have money to buy out, too, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u101	Mr. Marshal, we didn't talk on the Senate committee about the financial situation and condition of the State Forests. The State Forest Directors are here with us, and the Minister, I think they'll be right to respond in detail. If, of course, the marshal is interested in this. What is the condition of the State Forests, so that... [[Financial.]] Financial, yeah. [[Will they have the money to buy them out?]] Oh, you see, that's a very important question if there's a concern about whether they'll have the money to buy them out. But I want to reassure your marshal somehow that he's so-called. A forest fund created by the State Forests, and this forest fund will raise funds just to buy these properties. Of course this is related, Mr. Marshal, to the National Lesity-enhancing programme, because the programme requires the State Forests to raise the Lesity of our country to 33% by 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u102	Senator Florek, one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u103	Mr. Senator, will the forerunners be trained to determine the value of the property? As an asset valuer, I have some doubts about this discretionary form... Because if the foreseeable considers that a specific selling price or a unilateral legal action, i.e. in the case of a declaration It's inadequate, it could go to court. But it's a discretionary matter: if the foreman sees it. So now the question is: can a foreworder in one case consider it necessary to appear and in another case may not consider it necessary to do so? In my opinion, there is no clarity here as to where it should occur. Was this subject discussed, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u104	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u105	The senator asked the question well, given that, as you pointed out, the forester does not need to know, so to speak, at the price of the land, although certainly as a forester or a forestry director working in the Forests is aware of what the state and value of the property is. And if he has doubts that this price is excessive, he gives it back, he entrusts it to professionals such as. Mr. Senator Florek. And these professionals come in, assess the situation and determine whether it's reasonable doubt or not. And then you make the decision we talked about earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u106	Senator Lydia Staron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question. Here is the situation: Article. 37a concerns individuals... Here we are dealing not only with a bilateral declaration of will, but also with a unilateral legal act. So on the basis of a statement... When a person wishes to leave the area under the forest or, specifically, the forest, the State Forests will always have the right to buy firsthand. I'd like to ask you about a situation where someone has a specific buyer, a natural person. Perhaps it is even an individual farmer who has near the ground, also under forestation, and would like to acquire a piece of land from a natural person. He gives a very good price, suitable for him, gets along with the salesman. In such a situation Okay, I get it. The forest by its representative can always make a unilateral statement that it is they who want to acquire the same land. The most important thing is the price. If the woods think the price the seller is talking about is too high, then Okay, I get it. The seller awaits the road through torment, i.e. years of judging to prove that the proposed price is appropriate. But at the end of this expensive price will not necessarily be so, because we are based on the Real Estate Act. Since you are the rapporteur, I would like to know whether there were matters of limited ownership at the committee meeting? Because it's kind of a special act that talks about some kind of limitation. A natural person may not dispose of this at either the price given by another person or by a specific person. Did she mention that? Because we are always based on the Real Estate Management Act; we are dealing with a unilateral legal act, which is even the case of the statement, and with the price that the valuer really dictates and which maybe... You seem to have calmed down some senator here, that the price will be determined by the valuer, but ♪ Like I said ♪ It can be long-established and can be much more attractive to a natural person, especially since such a solution will also define the person who wants to acquire it. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u108	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u109	Indeed, it was a question of whether the law restricts ownership. I also said in my first speech, at the beginning, that the law would not restrict ownership of property, because if the owner of the property would prefer to sell the property, he would sell it. I understand that in this case, as in the case of agricultural land management, the State Forests and Agricultural Property Agency are privileged. And what's important is that someone... is the case you were talking about: someone wants to buy this property and set a specific price. And there's a dispute because the State Forests give less, someone wants to give more and the real estate seller says: "No, I'll be lost because the State Forests give me less for this property." Such a dispute shall be settled by the court. The decision of the court is final. The court shall decide what the price for this property is to be. [[Yeah, I was just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u110	The senator's still asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u111	I'd just like to ask you a few more questions. Yeah, you confirmed exactly what I was talking about because you said there was no limit. I don't know if you think it was the decision of the committee. The ownership of the property. But you yourself, in conclusion, said that the Forests would always be a buyer when they wanted to, not the person indicated, the buyer giving an adequate, established price, with which, for example. Someone wants to be a neighbor. And one last thing. You're saying the decision is legal, but you just have to take it. Given that the court is a proxy... So it's a certain amount of money, and it's years of judging... and in the end, you don't know what the finale is. That's why I asked what were the votes at the committee's meeting on this issue, whether it was decided that this restriction on the person, on the amount, but also on the investigation, where we do not know what the final will be, right, because here we have the legal basis, we have the law on real estate management... We can't talk about anything else. Was it like it was recognized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u112	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u113	It was. We accepted from the Minister only information, an explanation that this law, as I said, does not restrict the ownership rights, because it is an act of the owner's will, whether he wants to sell the property or not to sell it. Of course, with such a sale, such transactions must have a very strong analysis and consider this transaction. It has to be made clear. In a privileged situation there are State Forests and, as in the case of agricultural land, the Agricultural Property Agency, and it in some way interferes. She, let's not hide, interferes, because she can buy out, but she doesn't have to buy out... But we consciously take such legal, legislative action to protect certain land, certain areas from mismanagement or from improper management, one can say, destiny. And that's what this bill is for. [[I'm sorry. Literally the last sentence. I'm not gonna...]] [[We're happy to listen.]] (I'm glad to hear it.)
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u114	There you go. [[Last sentence...]] But in the form of a question, Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u115	Mr. rapporteur, you said that this law protects against mismanagement. I'd just like to refer to that. I understand that this land that we're talking about is the land that's meant for deforestation or we're selling woods, so what's it supposed to protect us from... After all, we have a definite destiny for a given area, we can't use it for anything else. I didn't understand that sentence. How is this law supposed to protect against mismanagement?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u116	Let me explain to you, Senator. I've talked about this a few times before. There is a national programme to increase forestality. Poland is obliged to implement this programme and to increase the Lesity of our country to 33%, to be achieved in 2050. The State Forests are obliged to increase this forest program... And here we have a guarantee that when they buy this property, they will also manage it in accordance with the Forest Act, which means that they are to take care of, or actually manage... [[And the buyer doesn't?]] Please? [[And the buyer doesn't? The land is the same under the forest... he's committed to it.]] The buyer is a private person and we would interfere with his, you might say, the right of freedom and property, if we told him, for example: you have to plant such a species of tree, another species of tree or, for example, plant a forest. We buyers can't practically force the fact that on land adjacent to the forest, let's assume one or another economy. Plus, Senator, you're not gonna force anyone, you're not gonna force anyone to do that, because the buyer is a free man, and we respect his will. [[But these records are already in force today.]] But, you know, the issues you're making right now are debatable. It's not on the principle... it doesn't include a report from the committee. 'Cause you'd have to have a discussion, a debate about that, which would explain the doubts that the senator has, and which the senator certainly puts forward in good faith.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u117	Senator rapporteur, has the committee discussed the general subject of the Legislative Office, which concerned vacathio legis, the treatment of such a short vacathio legis by the Constitutional Tribunal? Has the committee discussed this issue or considered it? You're talking about this law primarily serving as an afforestation. I have another question about the vacathio legis. Why is the date of entry into force of this law 30 April?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u118	Mr. Marshal, you have rightly noted this and asked if there was a discussion about why it is so called here. short vacathio legis. I will remind you that there is a law that limits the acquisition of agricultural and forestry land by foreigners. This law is related to the accession treaty, and somehow it talks about what will happen there after May 1st... No, it does not specify what will happen to agricultural and forestry land after 1 May 2016. Therefore, in order to know who will acquire and how will acquire, what will be the rules, vacathio legis, about which the marshal asks, is very short, it can be said that it is a few days until the entry into force of this law. That's why it's happening. Of course, there was a discussion about it, that's what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u119	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u120	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I understand that time is running out and that the Ministry of the Environment wants to make it before 1 May, which is before the day on which the protection period passes when it comes to the purchase of agricultural and forestry land by foreigners. I even understand that the Ministry has concerns about the great interest of foreigners in our forests. But I can't understand why the new law should favour State Forests at the expense of entrepreneurs. Many entrepreneurs, Senator rapporteur, openly say that there will be people who will mingle and cut down private forests to convert them into utility parcels for sale. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator rapporteur, shouldn't the law be equal for all? Do state institutions not trust their citizens? I'm in favour of everyone having equal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u122	Thank you for that question, too. Mr. Senator, you mentioned some conspiracy, some manipulations that could cause an unauthorized logging of trees. That's what the rules say, too. It is known that in order to cut out a tree in the woods, it is necessary to agree to a specific edifice. If there is no permission to cut down trees, then there are certain consequences. If these are trees cut outside the forest, this should also be allowed. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this law has limited scope for action in areas where spatial development plans are, for example, areas under construction, for investments. It will certainly not be used when you have to build a large plant when you have to build e.g. sanatorium or hospital near forest land, because such investments are expected by the Polish state. This bill is supposed to lead to one thing, and there's still a battle here. The point is that the state forests are part of our national tradition, the state forests are kind of a national good, that's what we're talking about, that's why we're giving it to the state forests. Because the state must have power and must have instruments to manage the forest economy, the instruments to manage according to the principles of a rational economy, which leads to rational development of our country. The decisions of the State Forests cannot be taken and acted against the interest of our country's economic development.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u123	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u124	Mr. rapporteur, after your comments, I began to wonder whether I would not make an amendment in a moment concerning when the law enters into force. Today is April 20, there are 10 days left, which means the 14-day vacathio legis is not preserved. The President of the Republic of Poland should also look at the bill, he should have time for it, and therefore there is no such time. The main objective was to protect the land from redemption by foreigners. Then I have a question. There are state forests, generally in Poland is, I don't know, 80% such forests. You keep an eye on it, and you don't sell it to anyone. On the other hand, private trade is governed by the right of first purchase. As far as the woods are concerned, they're buying out the woods... There is also the possibility of one-sided surrender. My question is, why does this bill have to come into force on April 30 if there is no danger here, no danger? Can't this be a normal procedure? Have you considered whether this deadline can be postponed on 30 April due to the passing time? In my opinion, it would be without prejudice to the law itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u125	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u126	Mr. Senator paid attention. With some concern On the question of the President's decision. I am convinced that the President is an efficient person, and based on national interest, he will make the decision to sign and accept the law on amending the Law on Forests a priority. That's one thing. Second of all, in what you're saying... You can, of course, make amendments, and you have the opportunity to do so. The Commission will have to consider these amendments. I think that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u127	Thank you, Senator. Senator Panczyk-Podniej:
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u128	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask if the bill determines the status of the combined parcels, i.e. those which are partially wooded, and are in the company of the plots intended for construction, whether recreational or typically construction. It seems to me that the bill doesn't regulate it. What will be the possibility, e.g. They're being disposed of?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u130	Senator, there's a zoning plan. If there isn't, it should rise. This zoning plan tells us whether on a given plot, even if it adheres to forests, you can build some real estate or not you can build it. This is a decision to determine whether this plot will be a construction, investment or agricultural or forestry plot.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u131	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u132	I found data on... 1.7 million hectares of forests in private hands. I found this information on the Internet, so I'm not sure it's accurate information. I'd like to ask you how many parcels it is. How many Poles are involved in this law when it comes to the possibility of disposing of this property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u133	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u134	Indeed, we have about 1 million 750 thousand, less than 2 million non-state parcels that constitute forest land. This is a very large area. If the State Forests wanted to buy it, it probably wouldn't have been enough money for it. I think that the owners of these properties will not be rid of them abruptly just because this law has entered into force or because this law will have vacathio legis theoretically until 1 June. That's not gonna happen. Just because there's so much agricultural property doesn't mean that so many people will be interested in selling these properties. So, Dear Senator, I have no fear, I do not expect such a storm, the sudden sale of these properties. [[Thank you. I'm not afraid either. I wouldn't sell at prices that would be offered, which is not at market prices. I would like to ask how many people are potentially affected. Was that information given at the committee meeting? Thank you.]] Forgive me, but neither I nor anyone on the board can have such information, because these are personal decisions of individuals, owners of these properties.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, you will be able to ask the Minister. More questions... Excuse me, Senator Blackbay. You're welcome to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u136	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, you said that the purpose of the bill is to increase the forestality in Poland. Yes? [[Among other things.]] Among other things. Then explain to me, from the point of view of logic, this is the activity. I understand that the lesity of the land in private hands is included in the general lesity. Yes? And if that counts, then if a private person sells the 5-hectare forest to Kowalski... then that's the intention, but they buy it to the State Forests, then say, if, from the point of view of logic, the woods in our country increase then? That's the first question. And the other thing. Was there an administrative issue at the committee meeting? Because we are going towards a very good administrative state, namely to every procedure of transferring property the best, the smartest citizen of the Republic, i.e. the head of a given unit, will consent. Tell me, have you considered whether the issue of administrative burdens will increase at all? Because here, every legal act must be passed on to your foreman, who will re-launch these checking procedures. Have you considered the administrative issue at the committee meeting in terms of increasing the burden on State Forests and increasing employment? And the third case. Did you consider this at the committee meeting: the farmer has bad soil, the development plan determines that it is the sixth class, preferably under the forest, the farmer obtained permission from the Agricultural Property Agency and can sell this land, found a man who wants to plant a forest there... But I understand that there's still a foreword coming up and saying, oh, no, no, I'll take that. Is such a way possible, in your opinion? And fourth, last question, short... [[Maybe slowly, maybe I'll start answering these questions...]] I'll say it again if I have to, Senator. And a fourth, short question. Wouldn't it be easier, Mr. Senator, according to you and the committee, and wouldn't it be better to nationalise this 20%? ? Wouldn't that be easier? [[And pay compensation...]] And pay some compensation. Yeah, it'd be easier. Less administrative work, less problems. So I have four questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u137	Thank you, Senator. Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u138	Well, you know, you have... You know, you're gonna be in or you're gonna be in a debate in a minute, which I'm sure you're gonna be able to take on as far as the issues of this bill are concerned. Of course, you can share your comments, you can make proposals, amendments, comments on this bill. Yeah, I'm sure you are. I think that this will be considered by the Minister, by the Senate Environment Committee, also by the comments you will make, whether it is necessary to nationalise... If you make such an amendment, I promise you this as chairman of the committee. We will deal with this amendment and try to examine it at the committee meeting. With regard to increasing administration, the State Forests have not reported such expectations and needs, it has not been reported that it will be necessary to increase staffing in the State Forests. About the first thing you said... [[Lesity.]] I have to tell you, in your own question, you've already answered yourself, because I said, among other things. So this applies not only to forestism, but also to forest resource management. And I think not only think, but I say it with conviction. That this law will aim at this kind of action, it will lead it. I'll tell that to the senator so maybe even more so. It also aims at the proper management of forest resources in the interest of the Treasury, i.e. in the interests of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u139	Thank you. More questions... [[You're still a senator.]] Oh, Senator Blackbay. There you go. And Mr. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u140	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind... Because a very interesting topic was raised by the Senator rapporteur. And the more threads, the more questions. I'd ask the senator... Because it's very interesting. Could you show the proper management of forest resources by the State Forests that it will be better than that of individuals who are managing such resources today? What would be the better part of this? Would you mind saying two words about it? Because you put it this way: it will be proper and better management of forest resources. Could you tell me that, senator? Because I'm very curious about what this property is all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u141	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u142	Yes, I must draw attention to what this better and proper management of forest resources will be all about. Private parcels are primarily parcels with 1 ha, 5 ha, so you can say that they are small parcels. And that's where you have to make... As far as the State Forests are concerned, they build roads, invest in the forest resources they manage, take, you can say, actions that in a way I'm looking for the right word. The farm and complex solve problems in forest management. I do not claim that a private person who also cares about the forest, who often lives in this forest, who benefits from the benefits of the forest, is mismanagement. All I'm saying is that we aim at one thing: for forest land to be managed properly and for State Forests to be able, in accordance with the national forest-enhancing programme, to carry out this action, which I have already mentioned and which you know perfectly well. [[I don't know.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u143	Thank you, Senator... [[This needs to be read in the bill.]] Now you're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u144	Once again, Senator rapporteur, I will return to the issue of inheritance. We remember that in the Seym, Minister Jurgiel spoke on this subject. Finally, the inheritance was withdrawn from this record and the Agricultural Property Agency would not be able to exercise the right of pre-emption, but only the statutory succession. After a long discussion, legal inheritance was allowed, i.e. the closest ones in the straight line can inherit by law and in this case the agency is unable to benefit from... Here we have the same issue as with the agency, except that instead there are State Forests, so explain again what the difference is that this is legal and will inheritance, and there, when it comes to agricultural markets. It's only legal. I'm missing some kind of ambiguity: either in this case or not. Why such diversity? It would be immediately asked whether it is in line with the constitution that we differentiate the way we inherit. Was there a discussion about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u145	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u146	I don't recall there may have been such a discussion, but I don't recall it being extraordinary. I don't think there was any discussion about this, because the senators accepted with understanding the explanation which was addressed from the State Forests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u147	Senator Zdrojewska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u148	Dear Senator, I would like to ask you to discuss what happened to the owners of houses or buildings on the forest grounds. How will the introduction of this law affect property? I am talking not only about the owners of the houses, but also about the owners of resorts located in forest areas, lakes, etc., etc. Was that discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u150	Dear Senator, this was not discussed at the committee meeting. 'Cause you finally asked me if it was discussed. This was not discussed at the committee meeting, I repeat, we have not discussed this. As for the owners of all kinds of houses or, you can say, buildings in the property adjacent to forests or wooded ones, these owners will still be owners, no one will take it away from them. They just have to show an act of will that they want to get rid of their real estate, that is to sell, and only then will they undertake activities that will somehow be discretionary. Whether or not the Director of State Forests acquires such property, actually taking into account the management in accordance with the statutory rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u151	There are many such cases that buyers bought e.g. Somewhere in the woods, they renovated it, put huge resources into it, and so on. It is, I repeat, on forest grounds, along with a piece of forest, they are the owners of this land. I understand they'll only be able to sell it back to you right now. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And they won't be able to sell it on the open market?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u152	They're still the owners. When they want to... [[I'm not asking if they own it.]] When they want to give up, I didn't finish. This will be done on the general principles that were previously mentioned. They have to write a notarial act with a notary buyer, and a notary will go to the director of State Forests and ask if he's interested... I don't think the director of State Forests is interested in acquiring such property, because why does he need some private attractive property, which is designed for example. for some tourist or agrotourism purposes. After all, the State Forests are not called to do this. State forests must manage, take care of forest management. [[Yeah, I get it. I'm just asking if such a person will be able to dispose of it on the open market, and you say yes, but he has to ask the official for permission.]] Well, that's what they're... [[Well, he can't have it on the open market, I understand.]] ...the rules I was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u153	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u154	I'd like to ask you about the art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Between the old sound and the new sound, the difference is that if I'm not mistaken, organizational units with no legal personality were added. Because this has been added, it must have been significant. What kind of individuals... Please give an example of any units that are forest owners and belong to this category, i.e. organisational units without legal personality.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u155	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u156	Companies, I know... Yeah, some kind of company that doesn't have legal personality.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u157	Thank you. Let me remind you that you can still ask the Minister. Thank you. I don't see any more questions to be asked. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshall, thank you, High Izbo.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Necessary wish to speak and present the position of the Government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: Yes.]] You're welcome. I'd like to speak to you for a moment. We also have the CEO of State Forests, Mr. Tomaszewski, right? [[Voice from the room: No, deputy...]] No, he's not here. I wanted to welcome him, but I'd like to welcome the deputy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main purpose of the Law, the Government's draft law amending the Law on Forests, is to fulfil the obligation to expand the area of state forests as the country's strategic natural resources, which is in line with the Act of 6 July 2001 on the preservation of the national nature of the country's strategic natural resources. In the framework of the government legislative process, the project was subject to public consultation and opinion, inter alia. The Association of Powiatów Polskich, Krajowego Rada Notarialnej i Krajowy Rada Sadownictwa. A total of more than 20 comments were submitted at this stage. The most relevant concern was the scope of the Article. Article 37a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2, which indicates the land concerned by the right of first purchase and the right of redemption, and point 4 of the "forested land' in the records of agricultural land and buildings as agricultural land It was decided to remove itself from the project. Other comments were considered, some of which were taken into account. An appropriate justification for the comments not included is provided in the table of comments from the public consultation and the opinion. As part of the inter-ministerial arrangements, comments were made to the project by: the Governmental Legislative Centre, the Minister for Infrastructure and Construction, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development and the Minister for Justice. All comments were taken into account, possibly explained and after minor modifications taken into account. The draft law was also welcomed by the Joint Commission of the Government and the Territorial Government on 30 March 2016. The Council of Ministers adopted the bill on 5 April 2016 and passed it to the Sejm on the same day, where it was the subject of three readings and works in the Seym Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. The Sejm passed a law amending the Forest Law at its 16th meeting on 13 April 2016. On 19 April, the Act amending the Law on Forests was examined by the Senate Committee on the Environment, Senate printing No 148. Following the presentation by me of information on the proposed changes and the purpose of this law, the Senate Legislative Office presented proposals for 6 amendments, which were largely proposals for technical amendments which did not affect the rights and responsibilities of the parties affected by the amendment. The government's position on these proposals is negative for pro-social reasons, and it is clear from the rules what this is all about, despite the repetitions As well as the fact that the Forest Act is already used within the same editorial units as the articles, the formula is subject to that requirement. For this reason, this formula is used in Article. Article 37a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1. Amendments 5 and 6 should be mentioned as the most important. Amendment 5 concerned doubts about the intention to amend the article. Point 1 (2) concerning Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Forest Laws. It should be clarified that the aim of the proposed amendment is to increase the transparency of the provision by placing the existing content in separate points, as well as to return to the wording of the provision prior to the last amendment of the Forest Act to the extent that it is intended to indicate that the resources of the Forest Fund referred to in Article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, among others. for forests, not for land in the use of eternal national parks. Amendment 6 concerned doubts in the context of compliance with Article. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland fixed on 30 April 2016 the date of entry into force of the Act. However, it should be stressed that the urgent entry into force of this law is due to the fact that on 1 May a transitional period will pass, which is characterised by a limited possibility for foreigners to acquire agricultural and forestry land on the territory of the Republic of Poland. At the same time, it is likely that at the end of that period there will be a difficulty in the fulfilment by the State Forest Farm of the State Forests of the obligation to expand the area of state forests resulting from the article. 4 point 1 of the Act on maintaining the national nature of the country's strategic natural resources. Following the presentation of the amendments and the position of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the senators asked questions about the detailed solutions contained in the project. It seems reasonable to point out in particular the question concerning inter alia. the possibility for the seller to withdraw if the State Forests exercise the right of first purchase when the price specified in the contract of sale is different from that presented by the State Forests. It should be clarified that the right of first purchase can only be exercised once the sellers and buyers have already made the purchase-sales transaction, after they have concluded the contract in the form of a notarial act, which will be so-called. It's a conditional agreement. It should be pointed out that any determination of the price by an independent court at the request of a prospective court will only be possible in exceptional cases where the price is abnormally different from the market value of the land. The questions also concerned the difference between the Law amending the Law on Forests and the so-called Law. Land law, i.e. Act on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws, adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 14 April 2016 and submitted for signature to the President of the Republic of Poland. It should be clarified that the Law amending the Law on Forests provides for similar instruments as regards the right of pre-emption and the right of redemption, except for forestry land rather than agricultural land in relation to those laid down in the Law on the formation of the agricultural system, which was amended in this respect by the Law on the cessation of the sale of real estate. The Law amending the Law on Forests does not prohibit the sale of forest land, anyone will be able to do so as before by exercising his or her right of ownership. Nor does it impose restrictions on operators who will be able to acquire forest land. Nor will the right of pre-emption and redemption apply to disposals to persons from a wide range of loved ones, to legal and will successions and to the disposal of forest land forming part of the agricultural holding referred to in the Act on the formation of the agricultural system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u159	Thank you. Minister, there will be questions soon. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There's a whole list of senators and a few more... I'm sorry. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u160	I'd like to ask you a question from Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u161	Minister, I have a few questions. If you don't mind, write it down. Because it's gonna be a few questions, and I don't want to repeat them. The first question concerns the number of people who own forest parcels. There's 1 million 750,000 ha of that kind of land. How many people own these plots? The second question is how many, according to the State Forests... What area of state forests was bought by foreign persons. Because, as I understand it, the bill discussed here is either to prevent or somehow limit the purchase by foreign persons. How many foreign people... What area is in the hands of foreign people? What about the objects that were purchased from the State Forests? For some time, they had the right to do so primarily by employees of the State Forests. These objects were classified as forest. Will such persons therefore have a limited right to dispose of and trade in such immovable property? How Qualified Are They 'Cause I don't know yet. The lakes within the forest? Is this something separate? Are they also qualified as state forests? And the last thing I'm interested in. The legislator does not provide for information, in principle obtaining consent, if the forest parcels are disposed of to the benefit of loved ones. Are concubines included in loved ones or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u162	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u163	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, at the moment, with regard to forests, the amount of forests, forest resources, the total area of forest land in Poland is 9 million 403 thousand ha. According to the GUS 2015 daily. Of which forests are 9 million 197 thousand ha, including public forests are 7 million 447 thousand ha, including forests owned by the Treasury are 7 million 356 thousand ha rounded, and the area of private forests, as you said the marshal, at the moment, is 1 million 750 thousand ha at the end of 2014. As far as the number of people who own forest parcels is concerned, we do not have such records in our resources. These non-state forests are generally characterised by very large fragmentation, and therefore it should be assumed that they belong to a large number of owners. However, I do not have information about their number at the moment. What area was acquired by foreign citizens? I would like to compare the official information that is published on www.lp.wi. en. This is an official website, this is the information from this page, so you can give it. This is the website of the investment fund, the first investment fund in Poland, whose aim is to invest exclusively in forest resources. On the Internet, you can see who is the shareholder of this fund. This is a fund that buys agricultural land in order to forest it, as well as the forest, whether in the form of young people up to 20 years old or in the form of mature trees. As the fund's investment strategy says, it is based on investing in young people and in mature stands for forest management and obtaining as much wood raw material as possible, the sale of which will increase the value of certificates, because the contribution to this fund consists in buying certificates. The information from this website is that only in March 2016 the fund purchased over 211 hectares of forest and over 1 thousand 310 hectares of land under the forest, giving a total of 1 thousand 521 hectares. With regard to the purchase of land within 4 years, in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, by foresight throughout Poland, it was the purchase of only 178 hectares of forest and 49 hectares of agricultural land to forest. So in total 227 hectares of forests and agricultural land were acquired to forest. This shows the scale on which the State Forests acquired forest land and agricultural land for forestry. As far as the issues of the facilities that were sold by the Forests are concerned, these were those rented, possibly leased by natural persons, before... Of course, this was and this is legal. It's an article that talks about it. 40 Forests Act, or Art. 40 or 40a, if I remember correctly. A surveying inventory must be carried out prior to the sale, and the site must be separated. If it has not been allocated in old age, in resources. It must be done. If this plot was marked as.Ls. in the common land register with the old-fashioned This could be the case because of previous developments in the construction of fixed assets in the State Forests, and this land is being retrained to the construction site. Then, in accordance with the regulations on real estate management, the forerunner has to perform an estimated operation. The estimated operation shall be carried out and accepted. Subsequently, those persons who meet the criteria for acquiring the premises, including the plot by way of sale in the form of a notarial act, were and are disposed of. So to answer so much... by continuing to respond in a very simplified way, I would say this: according to the article. 35 Forest Act is a single-person forerunner who runs the forest economy, represents the State Treasury in civil law relations, performs other activities that belong to it. It is about employment, staff issues, pay issues and, of course, one person is responsible for the state of the forest. So coming out of the text of this article and to be so precise, I can say that the forerunner is responsible for whether or not he is taking ♪ and he's supposed to take ♪ The relevant decisions in terms of economy, purpose, legality, he responds to those decisions he takes. If assets That's what I understand in the question, and that's what you asked the marshal, and he was disposed of under certain conditions that had to be fulfilled, and I can't imagine that this property is now being acquired in the opposite direction, that is to say, to return to the State Forests. That's one thing. The second is that there is also a security in the legislation, which means that within 5 years the purchaser must, so to speak, very colloquially, retain this property, cannot be traded, otherwise the person loses the entitlement to the relief he received during the acquisition. Lakes in the woods. As far as this is concerned, the lake or river is properly classified in the general land register and most often, or most certainly, it is not a forest, so we cannot talk about the classification of it as a forest and about trading. The need to inform if forest parcels are disposed of to the benefit of loved ones... Yes, Mr. Marshal? It was in the last question... [[I meant whether the concubines would be counted as loved ones.]] This is not enumeratively mentioned in the provisions of the Act, but according to the provisions of the Family and Care Code, such persons are treated as persons living together. [[I ask this because in the case of the Agricultural Land Trading Act, I have received an answer that they are excluded. That's why I'm asking the Minister.]] I see. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u164	That's all the questions, right? [[No. I volunteered.]] No, I'm talking about your marshal's questions. [[Mine's all of them.]] The next person to ask questions is Senator Jackowski. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, how does the resort, how do the State Forests estimate how much land, that is, forest property can be acquired annually by the operation of this law? Are there any known numbers, estimates? As if the Minister would like to speak on this subject... Second line. I would have followed up on the subject that I had raised when I asked the Senator of the rapporteur. Namely, I mean two situations. One. There are habitats, for example. in the territory belonging to or adjacent to forest property owned by State Forests. What will be the situation with such habitats? And the other thing. If these are e.g. forest plots, but these are s, we know that there are things going on, we know from the past, for example, that this was the case. How will he view the status of these plots? Will they also be subject to the provisions of this law? I think here, I do not know, about the surroundings, such as Wyszkowa or about the area where there is a large area of this kind of facilities, especially in large cities, where in the past in the forest area, when construction laws were not so precisely addressed, Nida or non-Nida houses were placed, such recreational areas were simply created, and the formal status of these plots is forest. What's it gonna look like? I would be grateful if the Minister would answer these two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u166	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u167	Thank you so much for that question. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the preparation for the text of this bill was based on an extended analysis, which also concerned historical times. Because here in the Second Republic of Poland in 1927 and 1937... There are documents for this, there are statistical yearbooks from this period, there are records of the economy of the State Forests, especially the director of Adam Loret, who was kind of the father of today's State Forests, to whom we owe this state of the State Forests. We have conducted a document query, as well as checked the current state of what is happening with increasing forest resources but the State Forests. I'll tell you why. Because during this period, during the Second Republic of Poland, in these years, thanks to the wise, it can be said that such a economic policy of the State Forests was brought to the conclusion that at that time there was a similar idea, such as that of the law, the expansion of national resources, so that these are resources which are state, national, belong to all of us and generate such and not other benefits, of which we very often do not even know every day... we do not even know that we use them. The point is that during this period the resources increased by 380 000 ha and at the same time the various properties were returned, which as a result of the possessive activities were covered by various not entirely legitimate actions of the killer. Such a most spectacular purchase was the purchase by the Polish government of the key of the velchovsko-chotynickie goods with an area of 105 ha for the amount of 9.1 million. In comparison, I will say that the Augustow Forest has 110 ha on our side, on the Polish side. Following this policy of increasing forest resources and covering the area of Poland up to 30% in 2020 and to 33% in 2050, the Polish government adopted in 1995 a national programme of increasing forestry. This programme results in the amounts to be achieved at the various stages of the programme's implementation in order to achieve the objective. Here on this graph you can see very well what it looked like from the beginning, since 1991. That was before the show. We can see what the woods looked like. Forests in state areas, on state land managed by State Forests, are marked with dark green colour. Here you can see that there is a deficit of an area that the State Forests could forest. What has so far succeeded, what has been taken over in different ways by the seniors from the agency, because the agencies have disposed of this property... what was fit to be forested has been forested. Here, however, we have a dramatic decline in forestation, which results from the lack of land under forestation. Therefore, the State Forests have commissioned the Forestry Research Institute to update its national forest programme. This update was carried out in 2014. I quote: The analysis of the size of the forest in the years 2001 to 2013 and the forecast of the forest area by 2020 indicate that it will not be possible to achieve the target of foresting in the period 2001 to 20 680 hectares of land set in the National Foresting Programme. The estimated forest size will be around 184 000 ha, which is 27% the assumptions adopted. And further: the full implementation of this scheme in surface terms would require wooding over 520 000 hectares of land in the 2014-2020 period. Therefore, an attempt has been made to introduce rules that would make it possible to minimise as much as possible the shortcomings that exist. This short-term objective, i.e. by 2020, will probably not be achieved, but by 2050 there is a chance to reduce the risk of not achieving the target of this plan. In our impact assessment, we predicted that the annual amount at least at the beginning of these rules would be 500 ha. I would like to remind you that the data I showed from 2012 and 2014 spoke about 200 ha in total, 57 ha a year. This is where we plan to make it 500 ha. Another question, a habitat by the state forests. There are conditions that need to be met so that the foreplayer is interested in... Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, it's not like the foreman buys everything he can. If that were the case, the article would apply. 37, which was in the Act, is in the Act and will continue to function, which provided for the possibility of acquiring all categories of land, as well as cubic structures. The coastal condition is the forest fund, the size of the forest fund, the one that is created from the basic copy of each cubic meter sold and from which 1 billion 600 million PLN was taken. That's something to be clear about. Right now, we have the first quarter behind us, counting 2% of the size of the wood sold, and we're gonna pay the 2%. This money could be quite well transferred to improve environmental safety. As I said, forests perform functions that we don't even know they perform, public and private, that we use clean air, that we use oxygen, that we have air purification from dust, recreational functions, environmental functions, etc., etc. So that's the goal, which is to increase environmental safety. And this habitat... The habitat is, as I understand it, there will be ground and application, which is a building or a building. If it is classified as "Ls" in the general land register of the old-fashioned and if it is in the future interest, the foreword, representing the State Treasury, can acquire it. Maybe, I emphasize, because it's not some kind of rigor that he's gonna benefit from it. The third question was about the forest plot. That question involved a second... It depends on the classification, whether it will be the old age classification of the "Tr", that is, different areas, or "B" or "Building land," or "Ls". This is the case in the provision of the Law, in the first row it is mentioned that these are the land which is marked as "Ls', i.e. as forests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u168	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: Thank you.]] I'd like to ask Senator Blackbay's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u169	Mr Marshal, Minister, before I ask a question, I would like to say that I personally, knowing this environment, am in favour of state forests in Poland, for as many state forests in Poland as possible. I wanted to ask the Minister what he said, but I would also like to ask what I asked the rapporteur, but he could not answer very much. Minister, tell me... Of course, the 30%. Somehow, with poverty, we will reach, I understand that there is a danger of reaching these higher ceilings. Please tell me what kind of instruments you are planning to increase forestry in Poland. I'm talking about increasing forestism in general, not getting into it whether it's state or private forests, but let's say it's about state forests. In addition to the instrument for taking over forests in the course of the sale, forestism is not improving in this case. I understand the Minister agrees. What instruments do you want to use when it comes to increasing forestry, assuming hypothetically that none of the owners want to sell the land? That's the first question. The second question concerns bureaucratic and administrative issues. Are you predicting that there will be increased responsibilities of the State Forests Directorate, broadly understood, in terms of control? Any document relating to a conditional transfer agreement will be subject to a forward analysis, and therefore a large part of the work will be... Were there any calculations, and are you expecting a change here? And that's the case... I understand that, as there is a law on agricultural land trading, the farmer has obtained the permission of the agricultural agency of the Treasury to sell 2 hectares, the land in the development plan may be intended for the development of the forest... I understand that the forerunner will be able to say, yes, I am taking over this land for the purpose of forestation. And what does that depend on when it comes to taking over? That's it, the other questions in the next round.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u170	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u171	What instruments to increase forestry in Poland? Mr. Senator, State Forests... I didn't say that, and I want to say it because it's very important. Since 1945, two million hectares have been forested as a result of the deforestation of agricultural land, very often marginal land excluded from agricultural production. Yeah, two million ha. Then various plots, I would say, which nobody was interested in, and very often the old man gave them away because he didn't want them, and they were eligible for wooded, too. Lands in the possession of State Forests are already practically used for forestation. Moreover, since 2004, since its entry into the European Union, even more attention has been paid to the status of habitats. It must be said here that, both under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2004 and 2006, for the period 2007 and 2013, now that we have a third perspective and before, on the basis of such a law on the allocation of agricultural land for forestry and compensation, Minister Żelichowski's law, which was in force 2 years before the entry into the European Union, we have tried to make maximum use of these opportunities to increase the level of forestism. To this, as I say, after Poland's accession to the European Community, after taking part in certain areas in Natura 2000 areas... While these areas within the forest habitat are very well monitored, here is a very debatable discussion in the sense that they raise an additional voice for discussion, not in the sense that we do not accept them... The point is that there are non-forest habitats, meadow habitats, uni-sightly meadow habitats, konetlic habitats, various types of habitats that occur on land left behind. Nobody ever grew a plow on their own. And at some point, there's a collision with nature's needs. Very often such habitats are also in the area of the Agricultural Property Agency. We need to recognize that, run a natural surveillance camera, because we can't go in there with the planting. If we go in there with the planting, which is the woodsing, we're going to invade the habitat. I must say that it will be very difficult to minimise this undersatisfi, deficiency, forest deficit in this perspective, both in the first and in the second perspective. I have shown the possibilities that the State Forests have had so far. Art. 37, which was and is, makes this turnover, so to speak, all real estate is open, only that the scale of the acquisition was actually very small. Therefore, the assumption in the impact assessment of the regulation is 500 ha per year. It is about making use of this possibility, using the Rural Development Programme, i.e. for the first 20 years it is in the development of a farmer who pays for it, and if he decides to sell it, we as State Forests will be happy to acquire such forested land.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u172	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u173	Before the Minister answers these other two questions, if possible, one sentence of the summary. Thank you for a nice lecture. Minister, I understand this in this way that the chief thought of the State Forests is to encourage private operators who own land that are not high enough to grow and which can be forested to forest them. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u174	Yes, of course. At the same time, I would like to remind you, because I did not say that for many years, when there was no Rural Development Programme, it was also the State Forests who used their money to grant the purchase of seedlings, so that the private owner could, even on his own, plant the forest. Before entering the European Union. [[Thank you. Are there any more questions...]] [[There were two more questions.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. When it comes to bureaucratic matters... These are material and technical activities performed in the interiors. There are more than 430 foresights, 17 regional directorates, General Directorate of State Forests in Warsaw... Well, from this point on, I would like to commend that this is a very well-organized company that operates perfectly, in a staff-linear model, a uniformed company, a company that is efficient, about the rapid flow of information. So that it seems to me that what was mentioned here will be internalised within the current, up-to-date costs which are borne by the various administrative units of the State Forests. Third question... Excuse me, Senator, what was your third question? [[I forgot myself. Apparently... if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u175	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u176	I guess it wasn't that important. Minister, just one supplement to what you said. As I understand it from you, Minister... You said you're convinced that you think it's about increasing the burden... It will be. But will the State Forests do so within the existing structure and the current number of people employed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u177	Yes, within the existing structure and the current number of persons employed. It is about 25 thousand people in Poland, employed in the forest service and outside the forest service. It is a company, as few as, fully computerized. It has an information system and an IT system. It works very well. We are also well rated as a company of social trust. [[Mr. Marshal, I remembered that third question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u178	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u179	Minister, the point was that the farmer has two hectares of weak soil. He got permission from the agency to sell them. There's a Kowalski who wants to buy them and plant a forest there. And as I understand it, the foreman says, "I'll take over." Is this scenario possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u180	Of course. If there are indications that I haven't told you about, which are in the draft law, i.e. if the land adheres to the forest land, if it helps to regulate the course of the north-forest border or if it eliminates co-ownership, i.e.... This is about situations where there is such an area of co-ownership, i.e. there's a surveyed plot, and it's there, for example. A few percent or a dozen percent share of the private owner, and the rest of that plot... 'Cause there's a lot of guns like that. Then to eliminate this co-ownership, order the state on the ground... If there is a plot lying next to or between the forest parcels, the owner will forest it, then the premise will be met as much as possible to complete the complex by this size and align the border as well as the ecoton zone. Of course, environmental issues, population development, population dynamics, movement, migration... So that this is important for natural reasons, for environmental and natural safety.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u181	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska, Senator Czerwiński, Senator Florek, Senator Grabowski. Senator Zdrojewska, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you about the designation of national forests and state forests. Are these terms the same for you? That's the first question. Second question: is the collection of private forests included in the collection of national forests, does it not include?. And the third question, about the "I'm sure we'll still be coming back to that" question. So-called. Lesity. Explain again. 'Cause even though we've asked that repeatedly, we still haven't gotten an answer. How is this specific law supposed to increase forestry? Because, as I understand it, if we acquire forest land from a private person, it's private property... that we acquire forest land from a private person, it doesn't increase forestity. Well, that's not gonna happen. Lesity can, as I understand it. And tell me, because maybe I'm wrong. increase by foresting land which is not sufficiently forested, or land which has so far been agricultural land or industrial land, and these legislation does not apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u183	Thank you for that question, Senator. National forests, state forests... As far as the division is concerned, according to the yearbook of the Central Statistical Office of forests in total it is Like I said. Approximately 9.2 million ha, publicly owned, 7,4 million ha owned by the State Treasury, 7,36 million ha. The aim of both this programme and the provisions of the Act is to fulfil the obligation to expand the area of state forests as the country's strategic natural resources. As I said at the outset, this is in line with the Act on maintaining the national nature of the country's strategic natural resources. So in this sense, These are national forests. Meanwhile, state forests are forests that are owned by the State Treasury. Your question... private forests include 1.75 million ha. They consist of forests that belong to natural persons and forests that belong to the ground communities. Of course, looking at the woods in relation to... there are different indicators. Because we can talk about the lesity of the country's surface, we can talk about the lesity of the country's land surface, without the water being shut down. So that there are different definitions. At the moment, the Lesity, according to the statistical yearbook of the CSO, is 29.4%.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u184	Thank you very much, but I don't think we understand each other, sir, because I was asking about the woods... Let me put it this way, coffee on the table, I mean. I don't think there's gonna be any increase from mixing. I don't know. - Sugar in sugar. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: I can't hear.]] The amount of sugar in sugar will not increase from mixing, i.e. If you buy forest land from a private person, the forest will not increase. I'm gonna repeat the question again because I really want answers. The state alternately uses the terms "national forests' and "state forests'. I would like to know if there are private forests in the concept of national forest or not? Or is it only national that is stately? Oh, that's the way I'm gonna put it. Because I asked for specific signatures, and you didn't tell me if it was a match. Let me repeat: do private forests fit into the collection of national forests?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u185	Yes, of course. [[Thank you very much.]] Of course, you're right. I have already said twice, for the third time, that the aim is to fulfil the obligation to expand the area of state forests. This follows from the 2001 Act on the preservation of the national nature of the country's strategic natural resources. Of course, the transfer of private property to the State Treasury does not change the degree of coverage and Lesity in relation to the country's area, which has 312 km2. However, there is a 2001 law, in which the wording is used: "The national nature of the country's strategic natural resources has been preserved. It implies the obligation to expand the area of state forests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u187	Minister, I'd like to start by calming down. I want this bill to come into force because I think it's legitimate. However, I would like it not to be celebrated so that it is not dead law or implemented not as far as it should be. That's why I have a few specific questions. The first question concerns the issue of inheritance. Did you really, as the Senator rapporteur said here, maintain your will inheritance as an exception to the general rule of the Law of the First Order for State Forests? Well, in the will you can write any subject as the one that will be given. What else is statutory inheritance? It's a transition, let's assume a father from father to son. It's a will. It's a will. Is this a mistake, an oversight, or did you actually intentionally maintain it? The second question concerns this question. In the same provision, the following paragraph excludes: when the agricultural holding referred to in the Act on the formation of the agricultural system is disposed of... There is no specific article, so you should guess that it is a farm which is defined in the dictionary in this law. And in the vocabulary we read that the farm is a holding within the meaning of the Civil Code with an area of not less than 1 ha of agricultural land, and there is no upper limit as to the size of the area. What does that mean? Of course, in the case where there is more than 300 hectares of agricultural land, the provisions of the law we discussed and discussed last week will apply here. But it can be that the farm has 50 hectares of agricultural land and 1 thousand hectares of forests Well, maybe I'm overreacting. And then what? What about this case? Do you want these forests back and into the state stock or not? Next line, deadlines. For this law to be implemented, the deadlines must be real. Although 1 month is reserved for the exercise of the right of first purchase, in accordance with the Civil Code, but in Article. 598 k.c. there is a note: unless other terms have been reserved. So whoever designed the civil code and whoever approved it allowed the possibility of other terms, in guesses Longer. Why longer? Well, let's see. The Law provides for a month, exactly a month, for the exercise of the right of pre-emption by the forerunner. On time... [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to ask a question that lasts no more than a minute.]] I understand, but... All right, I'll try to make it short. The deadline is a month. And this is an extensive procedure: the forerunner reports the matter to the Director-General and has 10 days to do so; this is an intermediate stage; the director-general has 7 days to answer. If you count the time it takes for the correspondence to flow, it turns out it's gonna take a month. Yet there is still a question of valuation, which also takes time. Aren't those deadlines too short? This will simply discourage the forwarders from starting this procedure, because maintaining this term may be unrealistic. And last question, fourth. What about the companies? There has been a rather lively discussion about agricultural land, which is the responsibility of the companies. Maybe you have information that companies are not forest owners and that they are not a problem, and that is why you did not include them in this law. On purpose? Did you just forget to include these companies, so they're not subject to the laws? So in short, these are commercial companies, which are forest owners, possibly parent companies, which are owners of forest companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u188	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The answer to the first question: yes, it was intentional. Second question, about farms and forests. If in one transaction, no, and if separately, yes. I mean, if it's a farm with belongings, deposits, agricultural land, forest land, and in one transaction... Well, here is a very high probability, equal unity, that the State Forests will not be interested in increasing the stock of fixed assets, fixed assets, in the form of buildings, buildings, livestock buildings, buildings for agricultural purposes, because such activities in principle do not lead. If it's sold... If the owner owns a farm and sells the forest and this forest meets the relevant conditions, that is to say, adheres to the state forest, is a joint ownership, regulates the course of the north-forest border, then yes. But if the whole farm isn't. What about the companies? Personal companies as organisational entities without legal personality are included in the draft of this law. [[I'm gonna need more time...]] Time limits? In order not to be severe to the seller, this cannot take long, the whole process must take place quickly. And in the information system of the State Forests it is possible to implement it. There is a preliminary evaluation of the foreword, then the position is taken by the Director-General, and this takes place very quickly. Time limits are therefore possible to preserve.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u190	Thank you very much. Senator Florek, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u191	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have two questions, but I will divide them to accommodate you in a minute, for two separate speeches. The Law amending the Law on Forests is Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, let me just quote: the head of the organizational unit of State Forests can acquire property belonging to natural or legal persons... And further: forests, land intended for forestation or other land or real estate, if justified by the needs of forest management and without prejudice to the interest of the State Treasury. And in the mouth. 2 is that the forest or land intended for forestation And that's it. It may be acquired in particular in cases And this is what the Minister mentioned just now: directly adjacent land, abolishing co-ownership, regulating the course of borders... Such land may be acquired for forestation. I understand that this is adjacent land and that in this case we say that if, for example. In the development plan the area is intended for forestation, it is not as if a private owner wants to sell property to another, only in this case the General Director of State Forests will be able to acquire land adjacent to it to forest it, for example. So that there are listed three such cases. And such a return is given in particular. Minister, can you give another example, in particular, in addition to these three cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u192	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u193	Content of the Article 37 is consistent with the content which is in the wording of the old law. And these cases, which are mentioned in the legislation, stem from a regulation which at the moment detailed the rules for the acquisition of land by the head of the State Forests organizational unit. This provision has so far been functioning and functioning in the current text of the Single Law. So it's nothing new.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u194	Thank you very much. Senator Grabowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u195	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about which I would like you to address my doubts with an answer. I am referring to the article that has already been discussed in a few further questions, namely the article. 37a, specifically the paragraph. 2 where the conclusion of a contract other than a sales contract or unilateral legal action is concerned. The question is quite simple: is a specific agreement of the Civil Code, or a donation agreement, recognised as such? I'm asking you straight: if, for example, the donation agreement. This is the result of the paragraph. 4 and applies to the entire directory The State Forests will not be able to exercise the right of first-buy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u196	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u197	Where the contract is different from the sales contract, e.g. the donation agreement, and it does not specify the value, the forwarder through the asset valuer will determine the monetary equivalent. She'll be subject to this bill. That general rule... If the seller does not agree with this value, he may go to court. So that's also going to be of interest...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u198	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u199	Minister, I'd like to ask you a question. So on the basis of the contract, a donation will not be possible for your relatives in a straight, conniving, descending line, to give the land. Yes? You won't be able to, because it could be blocked under this law. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u200	No, no. Of course you can. [[May I?]] Of course. I told you what was going on in other cases. [[Good. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u201	Senator Blackbay, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If you don't mind, one more short question about the article. 37, which Senator Florek also referred to. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2, words in particular... The forerunner here has almost an obligation to take over this land under this law. In addition to these three cases... In other cases, which are not foreseen here, can a foreword ask for such land to be taken over? That's one question. And second question, related to the strategic stock of State Forests. You told the Minister that the document contained an increase in the area of State Forests. I understand that an increase in the area of State Forests should be a way of taking over, buying land that is suitable for forestation. If we want to do this by taking over the land today in the hands of individuals... Well, I repeat the question I asked the senator of the rapporteur. Minister, wouldn't it be easier to achieve this goal of increasing the area of State Forests simply to nationalise the 20% private forests? Wouldn't that be easier?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u203	Mr. Senator, I answer that question. Of course it's easier, but then the losers would be those whose assets would be nationalized. I'm talking about a hypothetical situation. Because then compensation would be paid and compensation would be much lower than the market price. [[And the first question.]] [[Minister, the first question was about the article. 37.]] Yes, of course. I have already responded, I have referred to this article, whose sound is similar to that which is in the current law. These conditions are contained in the implementing regulation of that law. And that's what's working right now. This isn't some new subject, a new term, a new condition. [[If you don't mind, Minister, once again, briefly. I understand that in other cases, you can take over the land, too.]] Maybe... [[That's all I wanted to know.]] This has been the case since the beginning of the Act and the Act entered into force on 1 January 1992.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u204	Thank you. Senator Rotnicka. And then in order, Senator Florek and Senator Wach. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u205	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask an unusual question, but in the context of the law we are talking about, it will matter. In the south of our country there are so-called protected mountain areas. forest communities. They bring together very many co-owners of very small pieces of forest areas. How will the State Forests work in order to implement forest protection and forest management policies in relation to those forest communities which, as I read on the Internet, are subject to the law on the ground communities? These land communities have a rather complicated form of action. So will the jurisdiction of the State Forests never reach there again because we can't do anything? And this is about 20% of our forests. How would you feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u206	Of course, Senator. Once again, I'm going back to the very beginning, which is until the press decides to send a question to the Director-General. In the situation in which there are ground communities, and after describing the facts that exist in the field of ownership, in the preparation of all agreements, consents, etc., because then the whole community, every member of this community, would have to comment on whether or not he is interested in selling, I think it is very difficult to predict that such transactions could take place at all, so there will be no interest here. [[The mountaineers are up.]] The mountaineers are always the mountaineers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u207	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u208	Minister, I have returned to the bill, I have reviewed it, and I continue to return to the point that forests or land intended for forestation can be purchased in particular in such cases and in such cases. You said it was in the bill. Yeah, it was in the bill, but it was about sales, and this point was about art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 is a new recipe. That's why my question came up. I wanted to know... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: Yes, it is.]] ...if the State Forests will actually be able to buy the property in case we're not dealing with the sale. Now, here's my question. Minister, I'm going back to one thing because I'd like to make sure that there's a possible amendment. It's about buying the property that I was talking about now, about the original purchase, about what we can possibly do on the basis of a statement. I'd like to make sure I know again, 100%. Is it possible to withdraw from such a transaction if one party wants to sell to the other party and at this moment the State Forests want to buy it out? In a situation where I've already decided to sell property to anyone, can I get out of it? I'm asking because it says no, but I'd like to know 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u209	Thank you very much. If the parties conclude a conditional agreement and communicate about the sale... [[Not anymore.]] When the parties conclude a conditional sale agreement in the form of a notarial act, it means that they have decided to buy-sell at a price specified by those parties, and there is no possibility to withdraw from the transaction due to the price because it has already been signed. Otherwise I'll have to add that, too. This would lead to circumvention of the provisions of the Act. If the price is excessive, the foreseeable may ask the court to determine the price. Thus, the right of first purchase will be exercised at a specified price, either at the price specified in the conditional sale contract or at the price determined by the court. Anyway, it's going to be a market price.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u210	Thank you very much. Senator Wach. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u211	Thank you kindly. Minister! Mr. Marshal! I have two questions. The first one, I think, is easy, because it says that maybe I didn't quite understand if I saw what you were showing, and it's about the woods. You've been talking about wooding 2 million ha from the moment after the war to the present time. This would mean a forestation of approximately 20 and 30 000 ha per year. You showed a graph that looked impressive, but we didn't see the scale. Probably there was time cut off on the axis, and thousands of hectares on the linear axis. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: The upper size is 30,000 ha.]] The top is $30,000. Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: Yes, 30,000 ha.]] Okay, among other things. That's what I meant. You also talked about the target, if I've heard it correctly, 500 ha a year. It's kind of a margin for what you're talking about. If you could explain briefly how it is and what you're actually going to do as State Forests, what the State Forests are going to do as a result of this bill, I would ask for it. I'm asking because these are three cases, one case is the average size, which is 30,000... Anyway, I'm not gonna repeat the question. The second question is harder. It actually refers to the fact that every law of the original purchase carries corruptional dangers. That's what I'm talking And I say this, without accusing anybody of favor, because this is a certain advantage. The mechanism itself concerning whether something is on the ground or in the woods is quite clear. The point is that the seller may be interested in not being interested in applying the right of the first purchase; and, let's say, the second case: if he is interested in the first purchase, he may not be interested in determining the value of the land by the valuer Because this is optional, you can order a value determination or not. You also mentioned a gross price difference, but that's also a vague term. It is not known whether this gross difference is 20%, from which, or maybe twice as much as it was in the contract. There is also the fact that a conditional civil law agreement can probably also be concluded in such a way that it is written that this agreement is valid if the price is not reduced below a certain limit as a result of the original right. Was that also considered? So, in this more difficult question, I mean, in short, how do you intend to prevent possible corrupt elements arising from the original purchase, and how do you refer or how the law refers to such an issue that a civil law agreement may contain different conditions, such as: if the price is to fall below a certain limit, the contract is void.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u212	Thank you so much for that question. As far as the price of the property sold is concerned, when it deviates sharply from the market value, this is what we have the 2003 Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. There was such a provision: if the price of the property sold deviates sharply from its market value, the exerciser of the right of first purchase may, within 14 days of the submission of the declaration of exercise of the right of first purchase, ask the court to determine the price of that property. So that this is not a recipe now introduced. As far as corruption is concerned, I don't really see the possibility of corruption at this point. Such a control system as it is in the State Forests is really very well organized, and the flow of information, which follows, is also good. The data on the ground transactions are known on the scale of the entire State Forests, as well as in the various regional directorates of the State Forests, and this will be the reference level, this will be important in comparing the size of the... This will be the first condition, the first element on which the forwarders representing the State Treasury will consider the size of the price. So it's completely controlling. And after the entry into force of these draft regulations, the Director-General will issue an appropriate technical regulation which will regulate these issues in conjunction with the provisions of the Real Estate Management Act, and there will be answers to all such doubts. There will be an internal procedure for the conduct of the head of an organisational unit, in this case for the implementation of the provisions of this law, which protects the possibility of a wrong preliminary assessment in the event of various such doubts. [[If you'll excuse me.]] [[Yes, of course.]] [[There was, in the context of this question, a question about the element of the conditional agreement as to the price, in the context of this civil legal agreement. And let me briefly remind you that I also asked about the woods, these acres of woods...]] Oh, yeah, acres. Excuse me. Forest hectares. Mr Senator is right, you have very well noted that the volume adopted in the impact assessment is 500 hectares and 10 million PLN. But I would like to stress that it is very difficult to determine, on the basis of reliable empirical indicators, the extent that is potentially in the interest of the State Forests, because from what I have shown, from the land data that have so far been acquired, it appears that these have so far been minimal. As far as transactions are concerned, we are based on a notarial agreement, and this is where it will go. There will be a conditional agreement in the form of a notarial act and a final agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u213	Is that all? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u214	Minister, you mentioned an ambitious plan for forestation growth. I would like to ask what is the share of European funds in this and whether your forecast is intended for different actions, e.g. The British, but also some forces in Poland, can cause a breakdown of this process. And then what?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm answering the question. As far as the EU's forest resources are concerned, they are included in the rural development programme, where there are care bonuses and forestation bonuses. They don't concern state forests. They concern, in accordance with the Union terminology, agricultural producers, and according to our terminology, such universal farmers. And here we cannot use these measures.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u216	Maybe I didn't express myself precisely, Minister. But all our activities affect the forest. And my question is: how do European measures help to increase forest areas? Not necessarily only for the company Lasa Polskie. [[State.]] State Forests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u217	They helped, and they helped a lot. This has been seen since the entry into the European Union. This bright green part of the chart concerns private forests. I mean, the ones that came out of the woods of private land. These are private forests that... [[How many acres is that?]] [[It's gonna be 50,000 ha, I guess.]] [[Exactly.]] Top, in 2006, it was over 15,000 ha. I don't have the exact data.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u218	Senator Hare, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u219	Minister, at this point a horse with a row, or a couple of horses, to the one who understands this concept of expanding the area of State Forests, which we are discussing here, since it turns out here, according to the chart that you showed us, that in expanding the area of forests that we have in Poland, private forest owners are more effective. [[It was worse.]] Then maybe we should do the opposite. [[Exactly.]] ...and then we would have reached the mentioned limit thirty-several percent of the forestation. [[But it's against ideology, Professor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u220	It's true, Mr. Senator... [[I'm having difficulty understanding a lot of things.]] ...you're right. I'm reminding you of the earlier information I was talking about... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] ...that it was the State Forests for their money for many years, until Poland entered the European Union, that financed planting material, i.e. seedlings, advice and delivery of seedlings, so that farmers would plant forests for free. Since the entry into the European Union, we have had the Rural Development Programme. And this efficiency you are talking about is precisely the result of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme. And as I said before, it doesn't apply to State Forests. The State Forests cannot obtain funds from this programme. And I won't agree with your thesis because... as you can see here, the dark green color means the surface covered by the State Forests. It's so low because we don't have land. And in order to get such land and expand the area of state forests, we need to acquire it. [[Ad vocem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u221	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u222	The implications should therefore be different: State Forests are meant to increase their ownership rather than forestation. [[You're welcome...]] I'm a mathematician. And really... You always get whipped if you think illogically. And here... Well, I guess that's terribly clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u223	I'm sorry, I don't want to argue, but it's all logical. Increasing the forest area means a greater value of state resources of State Forests. And the purpose of this law is to increase the forestry of state forests. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u225	Continuing this protestive thread that the Senator foreboding started, I'd say it looks like the Forests are devouring the woods, that the State Forests are devouring the woods because they're not coming. A question for the Minister. Minister, there's no land. You're telling me. Well, there is a surplus of land in Poland, including the state, among others. The land of the Agricultural Property Agency, as we have recently learned, is 1.5 million ha and on many of these land there are no offers. Are you, then? That's the second question, the side woods couldn't acquire the land so they could be wooded?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u226	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u227	The State Forests, of course, if this is the decision of the agency, which has marginal land, can take over and allocate this land to the forest. [[Here we go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u228	Thank you very much. No further questions, Minister... [[Got it. Got it.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u229	Minister, I have a few questions. How many State Forests have taken over the land or bought land from the agency for forestation? After all, there were and there are areas of V and VI classes. How many such transactions were carried out to forest these land by the State Forests? That's the first question. The second question concerns measures that have State Forests. That's because it's going to be made to buy these areas out of private hands. What was the financial condition of the State Forests at the end of the year? I mean, what was the profit, and what was the amount of money you had free at the banks in December, or what was the amount of money you could manage? These are my two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u230	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u231	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, I don't know how much land we have taken from the agency right now. Financial resources... [[Can you send this in writing to the marshal or not?]] Yes, yes, of course... [[I'm the one writing it down.]] ...we'll be happy to give them to you in writing. [[Okay, thank you very much.]] As far as financial resources are concerned, as we assumed in the impact assessment, this is to be 500 ha per year, at least in the first year, and the amount of 10 million PLN. [[Voice from the room: Not much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u232	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u233	On the same subject, maybe I'll add to the question of Marshal Borusewicz. Because it's been a year and three months since I asked for some information in writing, it's been promised to give it to me. And even though I asked twice in writing whether I would receive this information, I have not received such information to this day. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: Mr. Senator...]] If the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u234	But, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, there are now no more than a minute of questioning to the government representative related to this item on the agenda. This statement in no way concerns this item on the agenda. Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you kindly. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have another law after the law after the land trading, a similar law, but a law concerning the State Forests. She's better than the last law that interfered with inheritance because it doesn't interfere. According to this law, information is required, not consent, for the forwarder of the possible disposal of the forest plot. It is not limited to those who can buy, to employees of the State Forests, nor to the fact that such workers have to... have to work for five years, as in the case of the law on land trading. Polish citizens living in cities are not excluded, as in the previous law on land trading, i.e. two categories of Poles are not created: those who can participate in this trade, and those for whom this turnover is prohibited. So this is a slightly better bill. However, the introduction of this law poses similar dangers. First of all, the introduction of this law is such a danger that forest land and land adjacent to it... that the price of these parcels will fall. This law also poses a danger to recreational parcels. The fact is that recreational areas in Poland are largely adjacent to the state forests, because such a plot is most desirable, it is best to rest on such a plot. So these recreational areas... There is a danger that the State Forests, if the border has to be evened out, or such a plot will be part of the State Forests, in order to establish this property clearly, they will want to take over these plots. This also applies... Private forests are a matter primarily of the south of Poland, this is a matter of the Małopolska voivodship. Private forests. To what group will this restriction apply in terms of disposal, the right of the original buying of the State Forests? There are 1 million 750,000 hectares of private forest. If we assume that private forests are about 2 ha on the owner, that's 800,000... there could be 600 thousand owners, that's a significant group of people. In the south, in Najdrześnictwo Nowy Targ 83% Forests are private forests. And there in the south, in Podhale were formed forest communities, which have 19th-century traditions. Several dozens of thousands of owners belong to these communities, i.e. they are owned by 70,000 owners. I can hear the justification for this law. But right now, it's clear to me. And I think for some senators, too. It's not that, it's not that. It's not that. This deforestation is largely carried out by private owners for EU money. 500 ha a year in connection with this bill for 10 million PLN is really incomparable... You can compare it: the forest is 3,000 hectares a year, and this is about 500 hectares, which is the ratio legis I've heard about here... It seemed that the main ratio legis was foresting, increasing the Lesity of Poland, with which we all agree, but it is not. I suspected that this was not the case, because the date of 30 April this year, when this law is to enter into force, is the date of Poland's having to leave Poland from restricting the trading of land in the case of foreigners from the European Union, in general foreigners. So that's probably what this is all about, but it's not clear, but it's clear to me right now. The forest communities I mentioned, in the south, in the Undersea, are 55. This bill, like the previous one, accepts certain rules that I cannot agree with. This law assumes that the state is better, that the ownership of the agency is better than the ownership of the private owner, that the ownership of the State Forests is better than the ownership of the private owner. I don't agree with that. This argument that the state is better indicates a return to the past period. Of course, the Minister didn't point that way, but it's clear to me. Because it was possible to go the other way: if private owners are wooded for EU money and not from State Forests, then maybe they need to dispose of land that can be wooded. Yes? There's one more thing. The Minister said he didn't agree. But, Minister, all the analyses show that if restrictions are introduced and the removal of these restrictions is decided by the administration, one way or another, it is corrupt. The elimination of corruption, which is very difficult, is not merely a matter of prosecuting the authorities entitled to do so. Corruption is mainly limited by the elimination of permits, administrative consents, etc. And it was in Poland, and now you're... [[For eight years, you had a chance...]] ...backwards. Mr. Senator Ryszka, I can hear you. I've heard you many times. I'm not interrupting you, so... [[You're talking about things that aren't in this bill at all.]] I'm filing a motion to reject this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork. Did you, Mr. Marshal, file this motion in writing? [[Yes, I did.]] Oh, good. Thank you very much. [[This is corruption!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like you to correct this so that you do not repeat the story. It's been heard here, too. That someone wanted to sell State Forests in Poland. There's never been a project like this. [[That's what happened.]] There's never been a plan like that. The fact that the State Forests are in good condition and financially supported 'Cause they can't make all the money, among other things. The local road reconstruction program, that's true. But it's a good initiative, and it's a good thing these roads are built. But I've never... [[But I did.]] Don't say it again, because there's never been a case like this. Ladies and gentlemen, this law on forests is such a little sisterly law of the law on stopping the sale of real estate in the Treasury. But please note that as far as agricultural property resources of the Treasury are concerned, it is limited in some way, there is a million hectares, and in general agricultural land in Poland is owned by individual farmers. The vast majority of the land in Poland has as its owner an individual farmer. As far as the state forests are concerned, please note that the situation is slightly opposite... not slightly, but quite the opposite... [[Six votes out.]] ...because more than 80% these are state forests, i.e. as far as private forests are concerned, there are far fewer of them. And, ladies and gentlemen, looking at it from this point of view, we can see that the agricultural law that we have applied here and we have adopted, as you well know, is bad, bad, harmful. You also noticed this during the debate because you wanted to make a lot of amendments, more than we did, because there were 54 amendments, and 30 of them were your amendments, but as it turned out, you did not vote in favour of your own amendments to this law. And of course she says that only an individual farmer can buy land, that some people who can buy property are excluded. You could talk a lot about this bill, talk a lot about blocking investment processes in the city, etc. But it's just gonna turn out, it's gonna take a little more time, a month, two or four months, and it's gonna be visible what we're talking about. Here's the Forest Act, where the situation is diametrically different, because the state forests... Of course, foresting is an important matter and praise for the fact that since 1945, there have been millions of hectares of forested, that at the moment we have almost 30% of forests, that we have a specific purpose for forestation. But there was also talk of these private forests, and we can't miss that either, because they also play an important role. And here's the question: what's it gonna be like with the forest real estate business? And it turns out that we have a similar situation again, i.e. If someone wants to sell something, one owner to another owner, they come in here. It is no longer the agency of the forest which can acquire this property, they have the right of first purchase. And here are three cases, because we're talking about the right to buy, we're talking about statements when we have one-sided legal action, when there's, for example, one-sided legal action. It's a different deal than a sales agreement, and we're talking about a buyout for the forest. And, ladies and gentlemen, the worst part of all of this is that, as you said A, which means that you're willing to sell, it's over if he doesn't buy the buyer you're offering, then the State Forests will benefit from the right of first purchase, because it's no longer possible to withdraw, even for the price. And the bill here I'm looking at my watch. It is clear about the price. If the forerunner recognizes it, that's what I've been talking about. That the price is inadequate, it takes some action. So it's another discretionary matter in the bill, because if it does, it will, and if it doesn't, it won't. There are no specific rules in which case he must, and in which case he may simply not apply for this valuation to the court. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two amendments. The first amendment concerns this Article. Point 1, i.e. Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2 I was talking about. I mean, forests or land intended for forestation can be acquired in particular in the case of... and here are three cases, but here are the words in particular. Since this is the acquisition of real estate from private owners, from other owners in order to enlarge the area under the forest, I believe that this provision should be clear when it is possible and when it cannot be. And this, in particular, opens the gate... This means that once it will in particular determine such a case and otherwise it will not be purchased. I don't think that's good. The second amendment concerns a financial consensus in terms of withdrawal from sales. I repeat this amendment because she's already been reported to the Sejm, but she's gone. As I recall, she was rejected by two votes because there was, like, 222 votes or 220 in the Sejm. I'm reporting it here again because I don't think there's a big problem here, first of all, with a deadline, because no one will buy us these forests in Poland. The foreigners won't buy them out because there's no way... It's such a tight recipe, he was and is so tight that there's no way they can be bought out. And we're only talking about small transactions where we still want to intervene. And as a matter of fact, we've just been talking about land in the Farm Real Estate Agency's resources, where there's 1.5 million ha of land and where there's land under the forest. If we really want to carry out this forestation in Poland with another 3% by 2050, then okay, it's just a question of what it looks like in other European countries. I asked the Minister, but I didn't get the answer. And as far as I know, forestism in Poland is probably one of the largest in Europe. And it's very good that we have it, and if we zoom in on it, it's very good, too. But there is, for example. the resources of the Agricultural Property Agency, where there are also a great deal of weak-class land, and there is a place where you need to look for such opportunities. And as part of those private transactions that aren't much, and because of that, we're definitely not gonna get a special arrival... And those restrictions that are introduced in this law, including trade, are limitations similar to those in the law... Although there, as far as the cessation of the sale of agricultural land is concerned, this is not the case, and this is still the case here. I therefore, of course, make these amendments and make my vote conditional on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u238	Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 5:30 p.m.... Oh, let's read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u239	The joint meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will take place on 20 April at 5 p.m. in room 176. Agenda: consideration of applications submitted at the 15th Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws. That's it? Yes? [[What about the Environment Committee?]] [[What about the Health Committee?]] Oh, sorry, one more announcement. The meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act on the amendment of the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and of certain other laws "Senatian Print No 120 " will take place today immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in Room 182. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 59 to 17 minutes 33]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u240	I'm reopening the session. Dismissed until 5:45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 33 to 17 minutes 46]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on forests. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During both the questions and the first part of the debate, there were many speeches on the details of this law. I would like to say a few words on three aspects. In the first place, from the point of view of the person concerned directly, i.e. the person who wants to buy a piece of land, plant a forest and produce Because the forest is a production site. This is the first plane. The second level is the question that Professor Zając asked, after listening, I understand, to the questions. What's the purpose of this bill anyway? What is the purpose of this bill? And a third. As a summary, I would like to say a few words about the fact that this law is, in my view, another element, so to speak, a puzzle of the new state structure. The country where the citizen will be a patent to the authorities, and the password "We," the nation, will be replaced by "We," the authority. And this bill is another element in this puzzle. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, since 80% Forests in Poland are in the hands of the state, it is also a comprehensive state policy in this area that can freely create this policy. And what I'm trying to say is that I'm in favour, and so are a lot of people. In fact, like all the people in the Civic Platform in this room that I know of, the forests are in the hands of the state to constitute the wealth of the Treasury. I'm not going to elaborate on that. I would also like to say that if the purpose of the law is to take over the said 20% private forests, which cover almost 1 million 700 ha, it is not necessary to construct such a law, it is only enough just fairly to start talking to the owners, to say: we want to buy it, we want to take over it, exchange. This would be a fair approach to the topic of increasing the potential of forests that are in the hands of the State as part of the Treasury. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Could I have a moment of peace, Mr. Marshal? 'Cause here's a little bit of... If there is now such a case as I was saying that a farmer with a plan of development, that his land, the aforementioned 2 ha, is suitable for planting the forest, obtained, thanks to the intercession of the party and God, the approval of the head of the Agricultural Property Agency, that he can sell these 2 ha, then that I say so, we launch a new level of answer to the question, we say: oh, no, buddy, we still have a representative of the Forests, he will tell you if you can. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a country where we, as citizens, become a customer of power, of every level. I don't know why you're doing this. I hope that in the last phrase I will appeal to you to reject this harmful bill. What else is important here? What the senators were talking about, asking questions, is that you cannot withdraw from the transaction. After all, the agreement can be concluded so that it can be withdrawn at any stage. You're creating another problem here. This will inevitably increase the burden for forest workers. Whether they will do so by their own means, as the Minister said, if there will be additional employment, this is already a specific question, but there is no doubt that we are extending the time for administrative activities. What's it about? It's a sacred property right. If we want to sell the forest to our neighbour under this state policy, we must ask ourselves whether the president of the agency would not want to buy it, and yet the director of the State Forests may have a snort for it. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to the detailed questions concerning the article. 37. What I'm trying to say is that it's nicely written here: "In particular, the forerunner has the right." What does it mean in particular? As for the particularities, we know such cases. Someone will come and say, Comrade, especially I would not have to buy it, but in particular you know it, you understand; we will see if we can agree. If in accordance with Article. 37b the forerunner finds the right to acquire the land, it just buys it. Next, what I was talking about, an increase in the number of administrative activities, Art. 37h. A legal act which has not been carried out in conformity, in particular without notification to the competent authorities due to the location of the land, is invalid, i.e. the flow of all documents and knowledge is repeated. If at least one ha of forest came from all that I'm talking about, I would vote in favour of this bill. But, Senator, the rapporteur, there will not be a single ha of forest coming from this, even the other way round. People just work harder. If you want them to work as hard as possible in making any decisions in life, hating in power, then such laws should be introduced. Senator Pupa, in his report, says that better development is the most important element. I understand what's in private hands, that 20%. The country-wide not counting is poorly managed. Then I'd like to say yes. You have to know that the old man has a statutory duty to care for quality. Well, let's cut to the chase. Private forests. And what does any wise old man do? He signs, Mr. Senator, an agreement with the editing, and it's the editing that watches over his forests and the private ones. So please don't use such an argument that something bad is going on in there. And if there's a situation where there's something wrong in the private woods... Ladies and gentlemen, don't go so far that if someone goes into a one-way street, this street should be closed. This type of activity is at least obscene. Ladies and gentlemen, if by 2050 we want to increase forestry to 33% What the Minister was talking about and what you asked Senator Professor Zając, a lover of mathematics and logic. Do you know how many forests we have to plant each year? About 30,000, yeah, 30,000 ha. And how many acres did the Minister say? I'll also refer to what the Minister showed on the chart. Who increased the forestism in Poland the most in the years 2004-2015? Private entrepreneurs who received instruments from the Polish state and the European Union, instruments to increase forestism. And you want to do this: plant the forest, we will take it from you in a moment, like this good Janosik, and you will receive as much as we see fit, for judgment, and justice must be on our side. That's the design of this bill. That's what I told the senator. On the question of who better hosts... This is the same question as the question asked in 1976 by my professor of political economics of socialism. The professor asked us this: dear students, do you know how the political economy of socialism differs from the political economy of capitalism? And we, the people of the province, didn't know much, said no, Professor. What he said: remember the most important thing And that's the difference between us, Senator Pupa, in terms of better management. In the political economy of capitalism, the main principle is the exploitation of man by man, and in the political economy of socialism is exactly the opposite. And you want to prove that that's exactly what it is. So the forepersons are watching over all the woods in the county, and you're saying that the bad owners of this private... Well, he's watching over everything, including the private forest, Mr. Senator. So if you have other goals, say so. As I say, pass the nationalization bill, but if she's bad for you, then make conversations with those who own these 20% of the forest and get it from them. And if we want to increase the forest by 2050, let's create instruments that will allow State Forests or private individuals to plant 30,000 hectares of forest per year, and that will be a fair approach. And that's why this bill in my opinion is kind of part of the puzzle, these puzzles of building another country. 'Cause if... I don't address a lot of my friends, foresters, woodworkers. I'm a tree-maker by education, but I also know a lot of foresters, and I want to say they're fantastic people. I address it in particular to my fellow Senators from Law and Justice, but also to the politicians' foresters. The foresters of politicians are a different kind of people, because the forester of politicians can explain that you have to cut out half the forest to find the printer's barker. Therefore, let us not exaggerate with this improvement of forestism. There are instruments that can be done... Let us not exaggerate that only State Forests and forward surveillance ensure good forest management. 30,000 ha of forest must be planted to achieve this level of forestism, Mr. Senator, not this bill... Thanks to this law, neither the Lesity in Poland will increase by 1 ha. To conclude, I would like to say what I have already said during my speech... Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of Law and Justice, you are building a Polish state in which the citizen will become weaker and weaker towards the authorities, starting with the draft of this law, through the agricultural law, where you have attached the peasant to the land, to the locality and yet you have told him: if you are here, we will still find an instrument on you; through the law on the Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, according to which, as the prosecutor has a different opinion, it is necessary to move him to Przemyśl, or, if he is from Przemyśl, somewhere there to Szczecin, to the media law... Because we need to explain to the Polish society what the power meant. There's a TV called Russia Today, it has very good reviews and it's a good pattern. As you know, yesterday it appeared... [[Good patterns!]] ...ranking, Mr. Senator, freedom of the media and the press In six months from 18th place, we advanced to forty-sevenths. Well, congratulations. I understand that you have some vision of a country that no one has ever known before... [[That's what you do.]] ...and this bill is part of this vision... [[And eight years of happiness.]] [[I hope this works out for you.]] Sir... [[Calm down, please. You're almost done with the senator.]] Mr. Senator, I'm about to finish and refer to this happiness. And if we add to that the completely ruined foundation of the state, which is still capable of defending the citizen against the authority, namely the Constitutional Tribunal, today we were here with the marshal and with Senator Zientarski, somehow from PiS there was no one. Which shows that the state you're building is becoming a hostile country for a citizen... And that's your idea, and that's your goal. So that the principle of "We," the nation, is converted into the principle of "We," the power, and that is your idea. And the last sentence, so that we don't speak again later. Mr. Senator... [[Eight years.]] When it comes to eight years, I'm going to make it short, not short, just two sentences. If we were so smart, we wouldn't give up power after eight years. In the end, there's only one thing I want to say. As much as you have already ruined in Poland today, it took 25 years to work, to work... To spoil the opinion about Poland, economic indicators, perception of civil liberties, opinion about freedom of the press, etc., etc. You can curse the reality for 8 years, etc., but do not represent the philosophy represented by the Russians. In a discussion with the Americans. When civil liberties were discussed, the Russians always had one argument at the end: and you black people kill. And you have the same thing, you say, and you didn't do that 8 years ago. That's why you won to do better, and you're doing... Like I said, you're ruining the Polish state. This bill is another example of this. Please, I beg you, reflect. It's not like the woods are gonna get better. [[We don't know.]] Nothing but your good humor that you have fulfilled your political commitment to the President... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u242	Thank you, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] No, no. Have you been mentioned by name? [[It's a finger.]] No, you didn't. Please take the floor of Senator Józef Zając, and you can sign up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! If I hadn't spoken, I'd have a serious problem, because I'd be afraid to go home... [[You'd feel guilty.]] I live on the outskirts of Janowski Forests. For the last few days... Monday night they were such a big tour, a dozen people from Kocudza. They were from the village of Władysławów, Zvola, Potzek... Probably a few more would be there. I was visited, although this is not my senator's circuit, but I live there 15 km from the Janowski Forest coast. I have to say... [[This is my senator's district.]] Please? [[This is my senator's district.]] [[Yes, Mr. Marshal's district.]] Oh, it's a shame I didn't reroute... [[Joy in the Chamber]] What I've heard, perhaps too much... Those people who own private forests, although maybe not as big as the Podkarpacie, are just afraid. I tried to explain it to them, saying that... maybe I wouldn't quote it so accurately, but I said someone wasn't as scary as they paint it and so on. But everyone in our country is very sensitive to private property, and that's the big problem. For several years I was a member of the circle, which had areas on the coast of Janowski Forests, from the village of Potok, Potzek, and I experienced certain situations. They are mainly forest circuits in contact with the influence of Janów Lubelski, such a situation that I had to give up being a member of this circle. What was it? It's something I'd call... There is a kind of forest empire. When you were sitting on an pulpit at the time the wild boar usually leaves, you heard the sound of a decent car engine. I don't know if it was maybach or anything, but it was pretty solid, and you were coming in green uniforms for control. And after the hunt, what to do... If they come up with something like this, there's no point in sitting there. Besides, a few other highly pinched events convinced me that it was probably better to move to the field circuits. Yeah, but because of the last farm bill, Yeah, that's probably gonna be a problem. Another thing. I've been in favour of the economy of the state forests for a long time, and I'm convinced, but the ones that I see very often in the woods that this economy is good, professional. But people value private property, and we can't do what our predecessors have done before, and then it's just a problem. Which is why I think, after what the Minister showed us here on the chart... I was just wondering what he meant, the paler one. It turns out that no less, no more, only that private more effectively hosted in terms of forest growth than State Forests. And I think that's the result of this conclusion: since these private hosts have a large increase in the area of forests, they should be taken away and given to the State Forests. As I understand it, things are starting to go. Well, something's wrong here. Now here's the thing: with all the reasons that the Minister has given us here... I have to say, I'm confused. Well, I didn't know how to make a logical sequence of that to convince myself that, in fact, from what I believe in myself, that the State Forests, well-hosted by forests, should indicate that they have to be taken and given. I also have a very serious problem, which would mean more or less: to find out for myself what's going on here, you should probably, as you say in the country, look the horse in the teeth. 'Cause the thing is, we have this juggler called state forests, national forests, some other forests... I guess there were four adjectives in the meantime. The Minister said that the State Forests were supposed to get to some huge area. And I think we've already crossed a reasonable line on the forest area. As a result, she was there somewhere, in 2003 or ninety-one, a law saying that it was the State Forests... But I'm having second thoughts because And I think it's even the Minister who said it here. There is no definition of State Forests. So you have to see how it really is, whether this argument is convincing or not. And so it would seem with the utmost willingness and conviction that I would vote in favour of the transfer, the possibility of passing on the law or, in a civilised way, saying that the forests that lead private owners and hosts at the moment, but I would like the document on which we will vote here to be a real and convincing document. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask for one thing. And I'd like to address your marshal here. Namely 14 months ago I asked here a representative of the State Forests for a written answer to a question concerning the amount of recruitments in particular groups of workers. Although several times And by phone, and in writing, I said, "I'm sorry, I didn't get the answer." And that's why I'm appealing once again that if I may. That's the answer I've been given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u244	Thank you very much. If there are delays in such cases, in response, I ask for a signal. Ministers are obliged to provide timely answers to our inquiries. But I understand it was still in the previous term, so we can't take responsibility for that. [[Update the application, this is an update...]] Yes, yes, but the senator mentioned that he made an inquiry 14 months ago, so... maybe you should repeat that question. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Recently we celebrated the anniversary of the 90th anniversary of the State Forests. This is an institution that permanently entered Poland after regaining independence, after 1918, a unique institution. All I can tell you is that the State Forest is the largest single forest owner in the European Union... [[Voice from the hall: Managing.]] [[Managers, because, as the name suggests, these forests are state-owned.]] And this is a phenomenon that we owe to the wisdom of the founders, if you can say so, whether the people you mentioned to the Minister. The Minister mentioned the person of your director who created the State Forests before the war. Indeed, the forest and wood economy was created with a unique character, which passed through different fates, transformations. By the way, I would like to say to you that the decree of 12 December 1944 on the nationalisation of forests was issued in violation of even the law in force at that time, because only four of the twelve members of the PKWN were present during this vote. Right now, it's just a legal or historical curiosity from over seventy years ago. Why am I talking about this... [[PKWN was illegal.]] Yes, sir. Why am I talking about this? That's because, among other things, State Forest stock... It belongs to the State Forests now, it seems, 7 million 700 thousand ha, so it is a huge fragment of the territory of the Republic of Poland, and in private hands, for comparison, there is over 1 million 700 thousand ha This is more or less the ratio between the ownership of the State Treasury and private property. Since 2016, the State Forests have been subject to a turnover tax of 2% The Minister has already mentioned this by means of a law against which we in this House, as the Law and Justice, have voted because we thought it was taking money from the State Forests, which are absolutely needed for further development. And I'd like to remind private property defenders that private forests don't pay 2%. turnover tax, so they're in a privileged position... [[The senator's wrong.]] ...in relation to the State Forests. [[It's not a turnover tax.]] That's by the way. Back to the essence of the matter, I would like to say that this is a very good law on philosophy, because it shows that it is necessary to replenish resources, to acquire new land for the State Forests, and it is a step in a very good direction. Of course, it is also necessary to look at this law through the prism that on 1 May 2016, i.e. in a few or several days the rotation of the land on the territory of the Republic of Poland will be released, because it will be 12 years since our accession to the European Union. This is important, for example, because this law introduces certain regulations on the marketing of forest property and somehow makes it possible to rationalise activities in this area. So that the bill is very good. What I asked the Minister about, in my mind, can really cause problems, especially where we are dealing with events, and here I am thinking above all about the so-called ones. forest plots, which once, relatively recently, could be acquired quite easily. People often built permanent or less permanent deposits on them, or these are buildings permanently connected with the ground, or some kind of Nida cottage or other such houses as they used to be. And these are plots in forest areas or even in forest complexes, and for various reasons the owners did not comply with the obligation to legalize these sites. This situation will occur particularly in those areas where they are called. sites where there's a lot of land. That's why I think action here... But I believe in the discretion of the General Directorate for State Forests and this regulation, which will be issued by the General Director of State Forests, as mentioned by the Minister in his speech. I'd also like to say that I'm the son of a ranger. My father graduated from the Lviv University of Technology in 1935. Before the war he worked in the management of Łódź. During the war he was an officer of the Lviv AK, he also worked in Vinniki's fortification, later he was one of the most well-deserved foresters of northern and southern Poland. So I grew up in a forest family. And I have to say that what I got out of the house, that's. respect for the work of a forester, and also the fact that in such a large farm and with the opportunities offered by the State Forests... However, this shows that both forest farming and wood management can be carried out in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, as this should be emphasised. So there's no element here, I'd say, a robbery clipping, which for economic reasons can occur, because it's a big company that has a planning period in which there are planned clippings, there are entire management plans, and it seems to be several years old too. . laying down rules and allowing this company to be managed in a very rational manner while at the same time building adequate infrastructure. For example, such infrastructure as forest roads, which are needed for transport, as well as for recreational areas, because forests are publicly available. State Forests organize various stops, parking lots, sightseeing points, some elements of natural education, i.e. some boards, information, that is, this infrastructure, which is undoubtedly expensive, but which allows the inhabitants of Poland to benefit from this simply unique good, which is the forest and access to this forest. So that I would like to thank the Minister for this bill and express my hope that this regulation will address issues related to, I would say, places where there are human habitats, or any developments concerning those parcels I mentioned, i.e. land of a forest nature, a small area, because these are land with 2 000 m2, 3 000 m2. From a company's point of view, they may not be very important and may also cause specific problems. 'Cause even if it's right, it's a piece that's allowed between houses from the point of view of forest management that may not be as effective as just a clean forest. But I hope that this will be properly prepared in the relevant regulation of the Director-General of State Forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u246	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Hamerski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Good Guests! In the statements of my predecessors, sometimes there was a motive for scaring private owners with this prepared bill. What I'm saying is that everyone in this room, because that's what all the predecessors said, is that we treat the forest as a national good. And I think that as a national good, this forest is treated both by the state and by the private owner. Sometimes I felt like some of them had tried. I think it's like a satirist who used to talk about the superiority of Christmas over Easter nights to say that this is the state economy, and this is the peasant economy, as we say here on the Podtatra, is better, is more worthy, etc. I would like to say, Ladies and gentlemen, that I come from a sub-region, I come from Podtatra, where, like my previous speaker, Marshal Borusewicz mentioned, actually State Forests, if not for the management of peasant forests, although at the moment the ancients are withdrawing from this management. De facto, they wouldn't have anything to do. Because there is a significant advantage of peasant forest management over the state economy. But what I'm trying to say is that both I speak from my own personal observations, I was once a New York governor on this area that they own, they manage well. So I don't think there's any concern among the owners of private forests, at least at our place, that it's any kind of attack on their property, because, as I mentioned, both of them coexist, I think very well. Apart from the communities you mentioned by Marshal Borusewicz, there are strictly peasant forests, family forests. And I would like to inform you that no one, at least a good gazda, is getting rid of the woods. The forest-ground communities will not sell, give up, or even part of their area to private persons or to the State. In the case of communities or urbars, as they call them in Spiš, in Orava, there is no such fear. There is no need, it is common property and no one will do anything in this direction. The same is true with the woods stricte peasants, which are often supervised and administered on behalf of the old-fashioned. These are areas which rarely, to a small extent, are owned by individual peasants, and they are also such family communities. What I'm saying is that there's no reason for the peasants, the owners of the forest on the Undersea to be afraid of this bill or to be dissatisfied with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u248	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wasn't supposed to speak, but my previous speakers provoked me a little to speak, because after saying that this bill should not be accepted at all, that it is harmful, I have to say that I feel a little disgusted. I think that most of you have said quite positively that it is necessary to protect the Polish land, that these regulations need to be introduced, and that the forest is located not in the air, but on the ground. So we're also talking about protecting the Polish land under the woods. In the information quoted by the Minister and by your chairman that was coming... After all, this law was created in conjunction with the law on the suspension of the sale of the land of the stock of the State Treasury, and then there are several other laws, also on the formation of the agricultural system, about the so-called. controlled land trading by the real estate agency, as well as, at the moment, controlling the trading by the State Forests as a state institution. Well, I'm surprised some people start telling us why not national forests, why state forests... Well, you can discuss what it means: national, national... You can assume that in national forests there are also private forests, and state forests, you can accept that. [[It is.]] I personally have almost two hectares of forest in co-operation... [[Oh!]] ...with my family and I don't feel threatened at all, I don't feel like this bill is interfering with something. I feel safer. I feel more secure because I work with the foresters because I have to work with the foresters, after all, they conduct forest surveillance, as a colleague mentioned here, on the basis of a contract concluded between an old lady and so on. Well, we work together, we often use planting material... [[Oh, that's right.]] ...because the Forests provide us with planting material. If we're making pickings, we're trying to get wooded. We're not doing any harm, and I can't imagine a bad relationship with the Forests. If that's the case... I was afraid that in the case of farms that are included in forests, forests may not be transmitted. Today, the Minister explained to me that there is no concern, is the provision that in the case of the disposal of the agricultural holding referred to in the Act of 11 April, etc. about shaping the agricultural system, it is treated together, i.e. you can sell forests including land. Most of us farmers have so-called. deputat, it's still a prewar idea, even in Tsaric times, when it was written that a piece of forest was always assigned to the farm, if there was a forest. And that's how it looks, that almost every farm had a piece of forest, so-called. A fuel depot, so people have something to warm up with. Most of it is. And none of these farmers want to get rid of it if they're selling it all... And if he does, he leaves it for future generations to pass on to the next generation, as Hamersky's colleague said. We farmers can't get rid of it. And now the question is, what happens at this point, what happens today? Ladies and gentlemen, I from web sites learn that such a company is being created, you can say, a fund is being created in Poland that buys forest land, and there are data for this last period: they have just bought 1 thousand 500 ha. I ask, how much land did the State Forests buy? 200 ha. So who's buying out the state forests more today? The fund, including the fund, is German-American capital. And this fund is legally buying out the woods today. [[No, otherwise, the woods don't buy out...]] [[Voice from the room: Because they don't have any money.]] Please look at the websites, after all, all these documents are public. [[How can they not have money?]] So I'm asking if the banks that today are an accessory to this fund that they're participating in because they have capital... I'm not gonna name names, so you can check the web sites so there's no way we're gonna think we're vilifying some banks. In any case, it's German capital, American capital and other capital, and the fund works. I'm the one asking, are we supposed to stand by and wait until May 1st, when the other actions can be done? We're not just gonna stand there and wait, are we? We said here, in a green town, 129 days we stood and said: we defend Polish land and forests, because we farmers knew that forests were our property and we wanted to defend them against speculative buyout. And it is very good that the Forests will be able to intervene in cases where someone comes with capital and offers to tempt a farmer or tempt the owner, because it doesn't have to be a farmer anymore. [[How do you tempt that?]] The least you can do is respect it, let the bill pass, and don't do anything to anger. 'Cause there's an expression here that we've done more damage in this period. Ladies and gentlemen, what you're saying is that you're doing so much harm by complaining everywhere, speaking badly of everyone, doing evil... This is a sinister self-fulfillment that will come true. Keep it up, you'll see what the state looks like. You're the ones who put oil in the fire. You're the ones ruining this country all the time saying everything's wrong. Consider whether it is worth defending Polish land, whether it is worth defending Polish forests, and do this basic thing that should be done in defending Polish forests. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[...so you can get subsidies for your forests...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u250	You're welcome to take... Mr. Senator Rulewski, I'm sorry, but I didn't give you the floor. [[What have you been fighting for all these years?]] Senator Rooster, I'm sorry, but I didn't give you the floor. [[I'm sorry. Let him think about it.]] Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u251	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, we're different. You believe that what is state, what can be nationalised, what can be obtained by the state and its super agency, Agricultural Property Agency, State Forests, is better, better than private. But there's no competition here, there's no comparison here, there's no evaluation here, and As always, the stick has two ends. State forests are important, very good that they are state forests, state forests no one has to sell. If any agency buys, it's not from the State Forests, and if the State Forests want to buy real estate, you've heard the state's ability to buy. They can buy from anyone. Anyone who wants to sell forest property now has to be careful because the State Forests can use the right of the original buy. You don't like farmers. They're gonna talk to you in a minute, and they're gonna tell you... Like the Farmer Act, you limited them the ability to have what is their own fatherhood, which has been their slogan for years. And you're trying to limit it in some way. The Forest Act goes in the same direction. I don't know why there are some differences in both laws, and why you think this has to be done. There is, in my opinion, no risk of redemption due to the fact that 1 May is 12 years old. There's no danger that the woods can be bought out. State Forests have a monopoly in Poland And that's also very important. For the price of wood. Let us bear in mind that the price of wood has been set by the foresight and therefore have a monopoly, the possibility to shape the price on the market. If there's no competition, that's what happens. I do not know, I would have to check it out, but I remember that the price of wood in Poland was higher than in some other European countries, which is also related to it. But we don't defend, let the forests manage, let them have the money, and let the money they have spent on the right goals, let them increase the forest. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Only, ladies and gentlemen, there must be some moderation, there are limits. So let us not exaggerate again that everything must be so to the end of the state, everything must be held to the end, everything must be guarded. There must be some freedom, too, because otherwise the market is monopolised. Surely, you can say: there are miners, so it may also be worth fixing a certain price of coal there, and there wouldn't be a problem either. Such solutions can be adopted, but not this way. I really think it's important to appreciate work and foresters and farmers. But you really have to take it. Given the fact that there is no great threat, as we say, such a threat that you have to hold everything in your hand and that you have to create a super-agency, a super-unit that will watch, control it all until the very end. These laws are bad, these laws are bad, and sooner or later you will change them, just like many others that have been passed. And then you're gonna give us the opportunity to point it out to you and tell you that we've already told you that this bill is bad at these and these points and that it had to be changed. You have recently come to the conclusion at the agricultural law that it should indeed be improved, but as it turned out, it lacked the courage to do as it should be. I am convinced that you will certainly adopt this law today, I suspect, probably without amendments. But consider that both laws are wrong. Either way, sooner or later, you're gonna figure it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u252	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Pupa. [[But Leszek Czarnobaj...]] [[I was saved, but I'll be back later, now I'll let the senator call you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Deal... [[It was written by Leszek Czarnobaj.]] I'm the one who's gonna give up on Mr. Blackbay, as he wishes, you're welcome. [[No, no.]] I can perform later, after you. [[No, no.]] Discussion of the Law on amending the Forest Act is coming to the finals. There were many arguments, many comments, many proposals. Such a discussion was needed. It was needed to talk about important, important issues in such an important matter as the State Forests. I am very pleased because there have also been many arguments for the fact that in Polish society the State Forests find recognition, they find their place. The foresters have gained respect as good hosts, as people who are properly responsible for managing the property entrusted. We've dealt with a lot of difficult things in the past when it comes to forests. I'll remind you of the forest assassination. I would like to remind you of a situation where public finances were wanted to be saved, including forests in the public finance sector. At that time, 2.5 million signatures were collected. Senator Rulewski reminded us of this at the beginning of our discussion about the State Forests today, 2.5 million of our compatriots signed to save the Forests so that the Forests would not be privatized, but maintained, could be said as a state and would not be manipulated. As a result, this discussion is taking place today that Law and Justice have won the elections. Law and Justice have won elections, society has entrusted a mandate of trust to the Law and Justice, so that forests can feel even more empowered and can serve society more. We could say a lot of good things about the State Forests, about how they affect our national economy. Here we must pay tribute, show respect to those who have managed the Forests over tens of years, because they have always sought to ensure that the economy is properly conducted, in the national interest, in the interests of the environment, in the interests of our country. I am embarrassed to observe a situation when one of the senators remembers the student education in socialist times and talks about socialist economics. I'm sure he was taught nationalization, taught about the superiority of socialism's economy over capitalism. At the same time, I watched with concern when he was referring to Russia Today's television, when he mentioned it... No one's talking about it. Only those who remember the 8-year rule of the Civic Platform, some of them have misbehaved in connection with the privatisation of the Forests. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable country... I want to stress what has already been going on in the discussion today that no one wants to rip out the forests of the state owners... [[Private forests.]] There's no private property assassination here. There's virtually no way the State Forests can take away anybody's forest that they own in private. This is only a protective action against speculation mentioned by Senator Chróścikowski. And that is the main goal, for which praise is given to those who have prepared this bill. Thanks to this, we have a chance that the forests will be our national good, the subject of public life. To conclude my speech, I pay my respects and homage to those who really care about the Polish forest humming over our heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u254	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj. [[Voice from the room: Are you going to beat him up?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u255	No. I promise I won't. [['Cause I'm gonna give it ……]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Senator, that's not why I'm going out on the stand to kick somebody's ass. If any of you feel that way, and especially Senator Pupa, I would like to say, I am so sorry. It's not my goal to... It is not important who, to whom and how much will he put, but who will put so much into Poland's development. It's important. I think that you are doing a little bit wrong in terms of the direction of development and methods of development of Poland. But it's a question of disagreement; I don't add anybody here. It's just an excuse, because the senator addressed me... A few words to fill in. I wish Senator Jackowski were here. I'd just like to make up for it, 'cause... [[Voice from the room: If it were, it would be replica, ad vocem.]] Yeah, well, maybe it's a good thing that there's no... anybody can sing, just like anybody can talk. I would just like to tell the senator and all of you of the fundamental difference. As you can remember, 2% turnover tax... [[This is not a turnover tax.]] In quotes, let's call it... Tax paid by the State Forests. The co-author, Senator Kleina, is sitting there on the left. I feel like I'm one of the co-authors, too. After all, there is nothing to prevent this tax from being removed for 2016. I take it you didn't notice it when you adopted the budget. I understand that for 2017, Mr. Director, please bring this joyful message that the Senators of Law and Justice will remove this 2% tax in 2017. We hear all the time that he needs to be put up with. That's the first thing. Second thing, unequal treatment. I address this to Senator Jackowski, but also to some of you: if a private person sells anything in this country, the more wood he will extract from the forest, he pays tax, but not 2%, but a little higher. This is the fundamental difference in taxes paid by individuals and taxes paid by the State Forests farm. I assure you... [[But it's not a turnover tax.]] [[Leave it...]] ...that the 2% The contribution that influences the budget is certainly higher than what a natural person pays. What Senator Hamerski said, as well as what Senator Chróścikowski said, fits... Ladies and gentlemen, we do not deny, and in any case I do not deny what concerns parts of the state treasure, which are state forests. Absolutely no one here said anything like that. We are denying what you are introducing here, that is, this law, methods, ways, again hating for the press, etc., all these issues and difficulties for the ordinary citizen. If you want to control the entire forest market in Poland, in full, 100% Not 80%, but there are methods that are simpler than those that are proposed here. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that if we look at the different forest management models in Europe Because I'm talking about Europe, you can see that these methods are different. In most countries, in the vast majority, the state has more than 50%. I think it's the least of it, as I recall, 56%. He's in Germany. In general, you are watching over what concerns the widely understood forest, trees and the wood market. Why, among other things? Not because, Senator Chróścikowski, a bad German will come. It's your favorite tune. It will buy these magnificent Polish forests and take the wood to German factories. No. I would like to say that one job in the State Forests creates between 4 and 6 jobs in other industries. And the role of the State is also to create the price of the said raw material. That's why we're not protesting that the state... that this belongs to the Treasury. It's supposed to be like this. A or 80% Isn't that enough? If so, as I said, take the bill that we are taking over the others. But do not give such judgments that we want to improve the forestism in Poland by taking over the mentioned 20%. If we're gonna improve the woods, I'm telling you again. Let's take over as forests 1 million ha, which are at the State Treasury Agricultural Agency, we'll take it down and we'll have 33%. And, Senator, what you said about remembering that time... I remember that time, I was a student at the time. Today, as an experienced man, I would like to say this: do not do the same as it was in those days. It just reminds me of me. And I would like to conclude by saying this: since you thank me, I too thank all those who work in the Forests who work for their well-being and for their development. Thank you on behalf of the entire Civic Platform. Just one small difference. The state in these laws... and the law on forests is an example here. There's forest empowerment here. It's like they're not an entity in our market so far, but OK, empowerment. And I would like to add that thanks to this law, the state of the State Forests may be more personified, but at the expense of objectifying Polish citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u256	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kleina. [[Give me the 2 billion.]] [[The 2 billion you took.]] It's a turnover tax, isn't it a turnover tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were so many wise, important political speeches here that I do not use such a right to speak here in a way as strong as all my predecessors. But since a few words have been said about the fee that the State Forests have been paying to the state budget since 2013, I would like to explain Because I was the inventor of this fee and I'm still a big supporter of it. The State Forests paid PLN 1 billion to the budget of PLN 600 000 in 2013 and then the said contribution was to be 2% of the value of the sale. It is not a turnover tax, because if it were a turnover tax, it would also have to apply to all other forest owners, including private ones. So this is the fee that the owner, the State, receives from his company. The State Forests, possessing the vast wealth that has been mentioned here and which we appreciate... Well, the state should also reap even a small, limited benefit from this enormous potential. We, initiating this deposit of PLN 1 billion 600 million and then 2% of the value of the sale, assumed that spending in the State Forests had to be more rationalized, that it was necessary to bring about such a situation that... Often the investments which the State Forests carried out and continued to implement, e.g. in the field of forest roads, are at a much higher level than similar investments carried out by powiats and even voivodships. So there's been a bit of an abnormal situation here. And that fee was intended to sort things out. And of course, as mentioned here by Senator Czarnobaj, if the Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice, believes that this fee should not be charged Although I say she should be taken because she does not destroy the State Forests in any way, but ties them more to the state It is the Law and Justice that can at any time repeal this law. But I think This would also be an important objective and task for Law and Justice in terms of the functioning of the State Forests, that State Forests should be further nationalised, so first of all State Forests should become part of public finances. Unfortunately, this operation did not work for us, but I hope you will carry out this operation. This will definitely benefit the greater rationalisation and control of expenditure in the State Forests. This problem was marginally touched by some senators, Senator Hare about it, among others. He's been asking for a long time, and so have others. It is worth looking at the law, of course, not discrediting the Forests as an institution, but remembering that they should definitely be state-owned and under the full supervision of the state, so that they will definitely function well and rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u258	Thank you very much. So this tax should be called a flat-rate tax on sales revenue. [[A fee, not a tax.]] [[Kleina's taxes.]] [[Not tax, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Not tax...]] [[I have to say it again. If it was a tax, it'd have to be common. Yes?]] [[Yeah, it's common.]] [[So it would also have to apply to the owners of private forests.]] [[Yeah, private.]] [[Owners of private forests benefit from the sale of wood, and the state collects this payment from the State Forests, which is set at a percentage, because we finally agreed to do so. The initial idea was that it was supposed to be a payment. But it only concerns State Forests, not private forests...]] That's a flat-rate fee for sales revenue. [[A flat-rate fee, that's exactly what it is.]] [[The Treasury.]] [[Klein's fee.]] [[Kleina's troublemaker.]] [[Yeah, Kleina's racket.]] Please take the floor for the second time, Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous colleague said whatever it was, it was still a tribute to the state. We can define it differently, but we know what's going on. [[State-owned enterprises to the Treasury.]] We know what's going on. The conclusions in this regard are different. Surely we need to check, verify how forests work, how other state institutions work, and we need to control it. In addition, there is a single Chamber, a second Chamber, and other institutions are set up to control how they function. Supreme Audit Chamber I think she's in control, too, I think, of the Forests, and there's her opinion on it. I wasn't supposed to speak anymore, but Senator Czarnobaj emphasizes all the time, giving us here information that we are making it difficult for citizens. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you again: it's not about us writing down that there's a ban on the sale of land to foreigners, a ban on the sale of forests to foreigners, because it's not allowed to do that, and it's not. That is why we treat everyone equally, regardless of whether it is a German farmer, from France, whether it is the owner of a German forest, from France. We treat them the same way, we don't treat them differently here. It is only in order to treat the members of the European Union equally. And there is no harassment for Polish farmers. Polish farmers, Polish forest owners are not afraid of this and will not be afraid. Because these regulations are used only in an exceptional situation, e.g. when there's a buyout. And when is the buyout? When this is the case in the Land Act, it gives the property to someone when he gives it directly in the inheritance, when it is passed on in the form of inheritance. Then there will be an intervention when it turns out that there is a speculative entity that should not be found. I think only then will these buyouts be realized. And that's the fear we have, most of us don't. I really want to draw attention to these woods. Ladies and gentlemen, we are using the enormous resources of the European Union for forestation. There were significant measures in the 20072013 EAFRD, and further measures in the 2014-2020 EAFRD are in place. Farmers also benefit from forest resources and will benefit from, we urge, to take funds for forestation and forestation, to improve forestry. So all of us, and the State Forests, and private owners, are supposed to act to improve the forestation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u260	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Florek and Marshal Borusewicz. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: No, thank you.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 146 and the report of the Commission In print No 146 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u261	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The Health Commission at its meeting on 19 April considered a law amending the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and certain other laws. The purpose of this law, which was adopted by the Sejm on 13 April 2016, is to change the date of launch of the Monitoring System for Medical Workers Training for certain groups engaged in medical professions. This is the so-called transition from paper to electronic version... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Don't disturb me!]] [[Excuse me, sir, but I'd like to suggest that we move the calls to the kuluars.]] [[Into the woods. Or the woods...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Well, Mr. Senator Rulewski, my favorite... here you go.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. So, as I mentioned, this is the transition from the so-called paper version to the electronic version. The step-by-step implementation of the electronic form will allow for ongoing analysis of the functioning of the system, eliminating errors and checking the utility of the system for many user groups. The system was originally established for doctors, dentists, laboratory diagnostics, pharmacists, nurses and midwives as from 1 May 2016. The adopted amendment of the Act of 9 October 2015 amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws provides for the launch of the system from 1 May 2016 only for certain groups of entities, i.e. for laboratory diagnostics and pharmacists, and for the remaining During the committee's work, questions were raised: why are we moving this by 1 year? We know that, unfortunately, the IT system, which should control this, is not fully operational and perhaps could not handle this process, so we leave only laboratory diagnostics and pharmacists here, because their group is quite limited, it is about 300 people. So it will be like a pilot system, so that the entire IT system will work during this 1 year by 2017. And perhaps from 1 May 2017 it will already work for all the groups that I mentioned earlier. The Senate committee is asking for the law to be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u262	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no calls. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I would like to warmly welcome Minister Peter Bite. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: No, thank you.]] No, thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. We do not have legislative proposals or speeches for the protocol. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u263	Meeting of the Environment Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Law amending the Law on Forests The Senate printing No 148 will take place today, immediately after the adjournment is announced, in room 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u264	Thank you very much. We're adjourned until 8:30. There'll be a vote at 8:30. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 57 to 21 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u265	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We return to the second agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Health took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 120 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! During the break, the Health Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy discussed the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws and adopted the position contained in point 1, i.e. the proposal for a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u267	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senator, Senator Jan Rulewski, or the other Senators of the rapporteur want to speak yet? [[Senator Rulewski...]] Mr. Senator, right? You're welcome. Oh, well, I'd like to inform you right away that maybe Senator Grodzki and Senator Majer can still speak, so that if you gentlemen are willing to speak, you're welcome. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to speak briefly as a result of my amendment, supported by the Platform's parliamentary club, growing misunderstanding and, as I must stress, a certain obstruction by the state of senators with the dignity of medical education. I would like to point out to the High House that the amendment only slightly extends the subjectivity of this law, as it introduces an obligation to provide free medicines for selected groups of sick children and young people. What are the sick for? For asthma, epilepsy, mental illness or vision disorder. In addition, my amendment gives the Minister the opportunity to set the budget in line with his beliefs and social needs, in response to his expectations, I think. In addition, the amendment in its second option is expected to apply only in 2018. It could fall, and I think it came from Senator Orzechowska. I'm sorry if I got the wrong name. The question is, what does this have to do with the bill? Well, as the Minister said, and I share that view, the elderly are 70%. people with chronic diseases, so combining them in the legislation with sick children is absolutely justified. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u269	Thank you very much, Senator. Senators Thomas Grodzki or Richard Majer - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. You're welcome, Senator Thomas Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! You have received minority requests in writing, and I would no longer like to spend time with all of you on these proposals. I would just like to add that at the committee meeting we proposed... Since minority proposals concerning children up to the age of 18 were further along, we have declared our willingness to uphold the more gentle proposal of Senator Rulewski. As for health insurance doctors, we were also willing to limit our expectations to geriatric specialists. And that's all there is to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u271	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 27 against. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 116 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs together with a summary of the conclusions. The Commissions at its meeting on 20 April 2016 discussed the conclusions made during the debate on 20 April 2016 on the Law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and on certain other laws and present the following position to the High Senate. The High Senate shall accept the proposals set out in points 1, 4, 6, 7, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, 18, 20, 22, 23, 24, 26, 28, 29, 30, 32, 34 and 35. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you, Senator applicant, Andrzej Biesiołek, or the other rapporteur, Senator Michał Seweryński, still want to speak? Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have your attention, please? Amendments 1, 7, 18, 24 and 30 should be voted on jointly. They re-draft the provisions on the scope of immunity of the Ombudsman, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the General Data Protection Officer, the President of the Institute of National Remembrance and the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, in place of a direct repetition of constitutional rules, on the appropriate provision of the law on the system of universal courts. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Shh! Quiet!]] You won't know what you're voting on. The amendments further correct the system of amended laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Fourty-four senators voted, 33 for, 50 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 47]] Amendments 1, 7, 18, 24 and 30 were rejected. Amendments 2, 8, 19, 25 and 31 re-form rules on the scope of immunity of the Ombudsman, the President of NIK, the General Data Protection Officer, the President of the IPN and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, in place of a direct repetition of constitutional rules, on an appropriate provision of the law on the system of universal courts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 23 for, 58 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 48]] Amendments 2, 8, 19, 25 and 31 were rejected. Amendments 3 and 9 should be voted on together. They introduce the material immunity of the Ombudsman and the President of NIK to exclude criminal offences prosecuted from a private prosecution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 29 for, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] Amendments 3 and 9 were rejected. Amendments 4, 10, 20, 26 and 32 should be voted on jointly. They delete the requirement to specify the date and place of birth of the person covered by the immunity when applying for the criminal liability of the Ombudsman, the President of NIK, the General Data Protection Officer, the President of the IPN and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 29 votes against, 53 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 50]] Amendments 4, 10, 20, 26 and 32 were rejected. Amendments 5, 11, 21, 27 and 33 are voted on together. They assume that the privilege of immunity of the Ombudsman, the President of the NIK, the General Data Protection Officer, the President of the IPN and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child includes any deprivation of liberty and not merely deprivation of liberty by coercive authorities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 26 votes against, 56 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 51]] Amendments 5, 11, 21, 27 and 33 were rejected. Amendments 6, 12, 22, 28 and 34 must be voted together. They assume that, in line with the immunity of parliamentarians, Also in the case of requests for consent to the criminal liability of the Ombudsman, the President of NIK, the General Data Protection Officer, the President of the IPN and the Ombudsman of the child's rights, proceedings for the waiver of immunity initiated and not completed during the term of office of the Sejm continue in the next term of office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 52]] Amendments 6, 12, 22, 28 and 34 were rejected. Amendment 13 makes it possible for the NIK President to waive his immunity in respect of road offences. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 13 was rejected. Amendments 14, 23, 29 and 35 should be voted together. They harmonise the reference technique used in the amended laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 52 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 54]] Amendments 14, 23, 29 and 35 were rejected. Amendment 15 corrects outdated or unnecessary references. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 15 was rejected. Amendment 16 assumes that the privilege of immunity of a Member and of a Senator covers any imprisonment, not merely imprisonment by coercive authorities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 55 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 16 was rejected. Amendment 17 eliminates from the provision setting out the scope of parliamentary immunity the definition of arrest as contained in the concept of detention defined by the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 55 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 17 was rejected. All amendments have already been voted out. The senator raises his hand. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u274	Mr Marshal, with regard to the rejection of all amendments under Article. 54 (1) (a) Point 1 (5) makes a formal application for the adoption of a law without amendments. [[What difference does it make?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u275	We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 28 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 58]] Please... But I have to give the results of the vote. Wait a minute, not now. We vote, we don't disturb. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u276	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but as a young senator, I'd like to ask for a brief explanation, if possible. Because the Senator, the rapporteur, had tabled amendments that the committee had voted on. During the plenary vote, which, of course, we have every right to. All these amendments were rejected, although the Ministry supported them at the committee meeting. Could I possibly ask Senator Elephant if...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u277	No, not now. Mr. Senator, this is not a formal proposal, we are not having a debate, we are not having a discussion. We're voting. That was the result of the vote. And that's what I gave you. We will not debate or discuss this. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 26 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 59]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the system of common courts, the law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on forests. A meeting of the Environment Committee took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 148 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At its meeting, the Commission considered the proposals put forward during the debate today on the Law amending the Law on Forests and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in the paragraph II. This is a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Piotr Florek and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz submitted their conclusions during the discussion. No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 55 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the rejection of the proposal to reject the Act, we are voting on the proposal of the Environment Committee to adopt the Act without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 27 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Forests. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. The Health Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 146 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 15th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will take place on 28 and 29 April 2016. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's delivery would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Rafał Ambrozik wishes to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u280	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is a statement addressed to the District Attorney in Szczecin, Iwona Chrobak-Farquharson. Dear Attorney General, I ask you, on behalf of Mr Dorota, Mr Kazimierz and Mr Zbigniew J., to take a second look at the issues of the closed proceedings in the Ds signature cases. 1060/05 and Ds. 522/06, led by the District Attorney's Office in Choszczno. In particular, please consider the possibility of requesting claims for compensation equivalent to the use of movable property in the context of the rights granted to the persons concerned and the annulment of acts taken over by the property. It is important in this case that new circumstances have emerged to show that the State of J. has suffered certain injury. I am referring to the illegal judgment of the District Court in Choszczno of 24 November 2015, sygn. Act II K 2/15, convicted of the perpetrators of armed robbery extortion, inter alia. for imprisonment in suspended custody. With this in mind, I ask that you take all legal steps to provide legal support to the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u281	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u282	I would like to make a statement in connection with the statement made by President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz in front of the Ghetto Heroes Memorial in Warsaw on 19 April, during which the President devoted at least one paragraph to the alleged or true facts that she thought were evidence that anti-Semitism was spreading in Poland and that it is not stigmatized only by public opinion, but specifically by politicians, in the idea of the current authority. The manipulation in this speech was multi-storey, so let me speak in several floors as well as in the analysis of the content of this speech by the President. Well, the first and most important thing, I think, is undoubtedly the fact that celebrations of all important anniversaries, which are inscribed in the history of Poland, and in this case also in the history of the Jewish people, are very clearly observed not only by Poland and Poles, but also by the world. Due to the fact that this event from World War II is an anniversary of a very significant and very clear anniversary, which everyone has in mind, from the point of view of the Polish state, Polish interests, Polish historical policy is an event in which Poles and Jews are connected in memory. The uprising in the ghetto was an event which also connected Poles and Jews during World War II. The Jews who grabbed the gun were perceived by the so-called. then the Aryan side as those great heroes who followed in the footsteps of Poles, in the footsteps of Polish guerrillas, Polish insurgents. The Aryan side saw that on the other side of the ghetto walls are the same heroes as those who create or co-create the Polish Underground State and the Polish insurrection tradition. This community and solidarity were witnessed by the help of the Home Army to the insurgents of the ghetto. And it is necessary to have no imagination, both political and historical, so as not to understand that every year the anniversary of the uprising in the ghetto is a great event in which the positive historical memory of Poles and Jews fits. In our Polish-Jewish relations there are not so many events that connect us. It is necessary to have no imagination not to use the most important and one of the few that we, and Poles, and Jews, clearly connect in the 20th century. And that's the first floor, the question, you can say, the inability, some mistake that got into the president's mind. But unfortunately, there's also a second floor and a second floor. Undoubtedly there are forces in the world to view us unjustly, lyingly as an anti-Semitic nation, as a nation that is supposedly co-responsible for the Holocaust, not as a nation that helped the Jews as much as it could, under the oppressive Nazi German system. And once again you have to have no imagination or worse: you have to be a cynic, so that on this day, on April 19th you can enter your speech into the expectations of those environments that are waiting for such words maybe also coming from Poland, and in this case it may not be, only coming from Poland. So it is necessary to have no imagination or to be a cynical politician to respond to the needs of anti-Polish environments in the world, on this very day speaking as if to emphasize in particular that we are supposedly an anti-Semitic nation. And the third installment, the least important, but also important in this context, namely those examples given by Mrs Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz. Even if we considered that these events were anti-Semitic, and it is a matter of separate discussion whether they had or not, they were still a total margin of Polish public space. To extract margins, not to notice great things, is some specific ability or possibly some intellectual weakness, which is that you are unable to distinguish between what is important and what is irrelevant, marginal. Unless you want to prove that what is a reality in political statements becomes an important, primal phenomenon, the most important one, because the politician has said so. No, the margin is to remain a margin, because the Polish nation is not anti-Semitic and problems concerning racist statements in general do not have Polish elites with Poles, only the French elites with French, German elites with Germans, Swedish elites with Swedish people have much more serious problems, but it is a total margin in Poland. You don't have to have an understanding of reality, just because you're a politician, a margin to extract and pretend that he's a great social phenomenon. [[Please add that it is common...]] Yeah, I'm sorry, it's my speech, but I'm 100% responsible for it. It was supported by Senator Antoni Szymanski and is our joint statement. Thank you. [[Mr. Senator, you will address them to the president.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-20-senat-15-2.u283	Thank you very much. And don't tell me. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 15th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 15th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 21 minutes 29]]
