ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u1	Resume session. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations: Mr Babiarz, Mr Duszek, Ms Wielichowska and Ms Borowski. In the first part of the session, Ms Monika Wielichowska and Ms Elżbieta Borowska will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Monika Wielichowska. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Culture and Media - hour 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 11.30, - Foreign Affairs - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 14, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 14, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: diabetes mellitus - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Safety of the Children's and Adults' Protective Vaccination Program - hours 12, - Parliamentary Team for the introduction of Unimandate Election Districts - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 15, - Parliamentary Craft and Vocational Education Team - hour. 15. Parliamentary Panel on diabetes invites you to a free blood sugar test, pok. No 44, by the column room, at 4 p.m. Ninety-seven.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u3	Thank you so much for reading the messages. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - the establishment of the Eastern Cross, - to prevent unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. The reports shall be printed in Nos 1121 and 1134 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Members of the Modern Members on air quality status and planned measures to reduce low emissions in Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Paweł Salek will answer. The first question will be asked by Mr Marek Sowa and the additional question by Mr Paweł Kobyliński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the latest infamous ranking of the most polluted countries of the European Environment Agency, Poland is in second place, after Bulgaria. The concentrations of PM2.5 PM10 dust per m2 or benzopyrene significantly exceed all acceptable standards. Local governments are making an effort to improve air quality, but they expect government support in this regard. However, in the last year, the government has removed priority actions to improve air quality. This is demonstrated by the decisions of the National Environmental Fund, which limited the funding of the Kawka programme, has withdrawn the decision to co-finance the Life programme implemented by the local government of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship from European funds in partnership with dozens of municipalities. I would like to ask the Minister: What measures does the government intend to take to reduce the state of air pollution in Poland and thus to remove Poland from the face of this infamous ranking? Does the government intend to support local governments in the near future in the implementation of low emission reduction programmes in voivodships and municipalities? Are there any legislative initiatives planned in this regard? I am thinking here, for example, of the possibility of empowering local governments of large cities, large cities, to introduce zones for limited communication emissions. For communication pollution is the second largest source of low emissions pollution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u5	I ask the Minister to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u6	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Membership! Thank you kindly for this question, Mr President. I would like to answer all of your questions one at a time. So I will start by saying that there is an air protection problem across Europe, and this is not just a problem with our country, because at the moment the air protection and low emissions problems are affecting 16 European countries. At the same time, all these activities that have been undertaken by the government over the last year were, in the first place, the drafting of a regulation on boiler standards, and this is what the Ministry of Development does. Interministerial consultations have already taken place on the Regulation. The second issue related to low emissions is the Energy Minister's regulation on fuel quality and fuel standards. And this, together with the Ministry of Environment, is the Minister of Energy. Here we cooperate and cooperate with colleagues from the Ministry of Energy. And I hope that this regulation will soon be possible to publish. The problem with low emissions in Poland is that coal, which is the primary raw material for household consumption and is still the cheapest, is used by society, because it is still the cheapest fuel. Those who can afford other energy resources, of course, use them for their own use, e.g. Gas. And the wealthier citizens of our country can use this gas. Of course, gas is less emission fuel when it comes to air pollution than coal, while coal is still widely used. Therefore, we believe that the basic thing is that there should be adequate fuel on the Polish market, I am talking about carbon fuel here, and that there should be appropriate equipment for generating energy, which is here I am talking about boilers. And these two regulations should help us to fight for low emissions reduction. Another thing connected with co-financing, with the support of the National Air Protection Fund, is that today in environmental programmes, which are implemented by the National Environmental Fund, there are at least four aid lines and one dedicated specifically to the Silesian agglomeration. These lines are supposed to help fight this problem. For the first time, it was possible to use aid money for municipal heating, which in Poland we have almost 300, which have an individual network, a city heating network, to connect new customers to this network. This is a very important thing because network heat, you can say, is the cheapest heat, the cheapest energy that can be used for heating apartments or for producing hot water. With regard to the LIFE programme mentioned by the Member, the situation is that the National Fund has reviewed its programmes supporting the environment in Poland in general over the last year. It was decided that it was necessary to switch to another co-financing system for air protection in Poland. On the other hand, with regard to the LIFE programme, it was a proposal for financial assistance submitted to the beneficiary and it was possible to benefit from this proposal. With regard to the limited mobility zones of motor vehicles, this is a problem related to the emissions of pollutants from transport. Today, local governments - yesterday in the team we talked about this - have the possibility of introducing restricted transport zones and can benefit from it, although it is enough that, so to speak, local discussion and sometimes also difficult to carry out, because closed zones or limited areas of use of individual motor transport can cause some emotions. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u7	And, please, an additional question, Mr Paweł Kobyliński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u8	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, I have the following questions. What measures does the government intend to allocate from the state budget and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to the elimination of low emissions by 2020? With regard to these fuel and boiler standards, please tell us exactly when these regulations will be ready, which you were kind to mention. I would also ask you to develop the topic of special programs for Małopolska and Silesia, because, as we know, cities such as: Katowice, Sosnowiec, Zabrze, Gliwice, Nowy Sącz, Kraków, Żywiec, Pszczyna, are the most polluted cities in Europe. For this reason, I would ask for quite precise answers, as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u9	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In answer to the Members' questions, I would like to point out what I forgot to say in my previous statement that, in addition to the money available to the National Environmental Fund, EU money, which is, you can say, managed by the National Environmental Fund and also by the Ministry of Development, is also available. And this is a very large amount of money that is earmarked for this, both our local, national and EU money. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the government is surrounded by a great deal of concern about air protection, because, please note, in this planning document, which is currently being prepared in the Ministry of Development, in the strategy for responsible development, there is a separate point on issues related to air quality and investment, including issues related to low emissions. As regards the answer to the questions when the boiler regulation will be, I would like to say that it will be next year. On the other hand, when it comes to the question of fuel standards, I would like to inform you that it is already in the Ministry of Energy. There is a need for an amendment, a slight revision of the bill, this change must be carried out. And at this point, It's already in the Ministry of Energy's intra-ministerial arrangements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u11	Thank you so much for your answer. The next question will be addressed to the Minister of Energy on the situation of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa after the transfer of KWK Krupiński to the Company for Restructuring of Kopalń SA. The basic and additional question will be asked by one Member from the Law and Justice Club by Mr Grzegorz Matusiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My interest concerns the situation of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. First question: Have the measures taken by the Ministry of Energy already had a positive effect? What debt does Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa have at the end of the year and the repair programme, which has already been signed and implemented, what will it consist of? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u13	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy will answer this question by Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As for Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, Mr Węglowa, I would like to thank you very much for asking this question, asking this question - because we are almost after signing the restructuring agreement with the bondsmen - and maybe I will give you a few figures on the process during which we are in order to illustrate this situation to us. The debt at the end of 2015 amounted to 1.5 billion, of which 1.3 billion belonged to financial institutions. Hence, they are a very important partner for discussions throughout the restructuring process. And it is financial institutions as if they were the ones that significantly influenced the acceptance and approval of the entire restructuring process. Let me zoom in on 23,000. the people are employed in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and the annual extraction is 17 million tons. The key actions that we have undertaken during this period in relation to the process that started this year, which was accepted and signed at the end of October, are: 29 August - agreement with the bondholders on the terms of repayment of bonds of 700 million PLN and 163 million USD, a total of about 1.3 million PLN, issued by Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa under the emission programme established on 30 July 2016; 11 August - sales agreement 100% shares of Sej - purchased by PGNiG Termik, where we acquired more than PLN 370 million; 30 September - sale agreement almost 93% Victoria's shares, the coke plant, acquired these shares of the Silesia Finance Society and the Industrial Development Agency for PLN 350 million; the agreement with the social side which was concluded in 2016, by 2020 and which allows that funds of PLN 2 billion do not have to be involved and represent a reduction in operating costs; then to obtain half a billion from the Enterprise Restructuring Fund for the modernisation of processing plants. We've already transferred the Jas-Mos movement to the SRK company. As far as certain effects are concerned, which are already beginning to occur, this is a reduction in the unit cost of own sales of coal in zlotys by almost 26% compared to a similar period in 2015. We are talking about more than 300 PLN in terms of the unit cost of extraction, and it was in 2015 after 9 months 400 PLN, so we have a very significant reduction in the cost of coal extraction. Then the structure of generic costs - a very significant reduction in operating costs, were mainly introduced changes in the consumption of materials, energy, benefits to employees, foreign services, as well as, which is a certain curiosity, more than 130 initiatives were defined in plants in Jastrzębska company, in mines, in adjacent companies, which define the possibilities for a more efficient functioning of Jastrzębska Węglowa. And what is already happening today in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, is investments in the Budryk, Knurów-Szczygłowice mine, especially as regards the mechanical coal processing plant and the bottom infrastructure, in order to obtain coke coal, as so far Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa was 68% Coke coal, 32% Energy coal, while we ultimately want the Jastrzębska company to be 85% by 2020. Coke coal and 15% Energy coal. We have decks of this coal, and it is important that the investments are made - and they are already in operation - so that we can get to that coal, the price of which is much higher in foreign markets, and there it is functioning. Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, from the price of energy coal. It makes it faster... and that, looking at the future at all, the hawk company will have a stable position on the market. As far as the investment plan is concerned, 1600 million will be invested from 2016 to 2025. With regard to the repayment of the commitments which were made with the bondholders, we have PLN 50 million per year for the period 2016/2018, and then this volume increases, that is the agreement that has shifted our payments and commitments to the period after 2019, that is PLN 178 million per year by 2024 and then PLN 30 million thereafter. So that the whole debt process has been postponed to and from 2019 until 2019, it is important that we invest and prepare a Jastrzębska company to make profits and to continue to invest from these profits, but also to repay debt. As far as performance is concerned, it is important that we have increased productivity from 477 t per person to 553 t per person. This phenomenon is improving, but our ambitions are such that we will increase productivity, as we already have in the Polish Mining Group, to about 700 t per person. For today, we've increased production, increased production by 6.7%... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll just add two more sentences, Marshal. ...by 7% to a comparable period of 2015 So we have almost 13 million tons of extraction to less than 12 in the past year. So we see positive reactions when it comes to the implementation of the recovery programme, and the effect, and finally I want to say, is also the evaluation of the stock exchange, which evaluates these actions. On 1 December 2015, we had quotations of PLN 12.71 and on 28 November this year the prices on the stock exchange amounted to PLN 87.50. So we see that efficiency in the hawk company is increasing. As for repairing the Jastrzębski company, we are, I think, on the right track, and let's agree that we still have many important decisions and consequences of the action...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u15	Minister, we have strict deadlines, and we need to... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you, Marshal. Stay here or there'll be an extra question, but I'd ask you to stick to the time limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u16	A very short question. I would like to ask what funds will be used to invest in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u17	The funds we involve are funds that we have acquired this year, as I mentioned, from the sale of assets, i.e. Victoria coke plant, then the heating system of the Sej, as well as from the restructuring fund. On the other hand, the increase in sales and volume that we are placing on the market today, also by increasing prices, makes it possible for a Jastrzębska company to raise more and more resources, alongside those obtained from sales that allow it to invest. Next year we plan to issue so-called shares. IPO to raise around 300 to 500 million to strengthen this restructuring process. The sale of coal, which is currently at a better price, as well as the increase in the volume and issue of the shares that I mentioned - these elements next year will strengthen the process that started this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. This is a question about an aviation incident in London involving a Polish government delegation. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers, Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Kempa. The first question will be asked by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u19	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On 28 November a Polish-British consultation took place. There was a Polish delegation headed by Prime Minister Beata Szydło with Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister of National Defence and Minister of Foreign Affairs. This visit was accompanied by a visit from journalists. We learned that on the return flight, these two flights, the reporter's flight and the VIP flight, were combined on one common flight. It seems that all procedures have been broken in relation to the issue of transport of the most important persons in the country. What happened was that breaking procedures was even defined by one of the newspapers by the term "Tupolewism," which is a reference to the fact that no conclusions from the terrible Polish history from 6 years ago, from the Smoleńsk catastrophe, were drawn. Hence a few questions for the Minister. Minister, why are the procedures concerning the transport of the most important people in the country being violated? I'm talking mostly about the HEAD manual. How is it that the passenger list is not yet known at the time of loading passengers to the aircraft, which is a manifest breach § 21 HEAD manuals? In the press releases, you were referring to this situation, talking about the civilian manual HEAD. We know there's no civilian manual, so we'd like to know what you think this civilian manual of HEAD is. Is this an agreement between the law firm and LOT, and if so, why did you use here to determine that this is a civilian HEAD manual? We would also like to know whether the guilty of negligence has been punished in this case. Is this a matter that is being dealt with as an aviation incident by the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents, and have the appropriate procedures to prevent such a mess in the future been implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u20	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u21	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Before answering your question, I would like to point out that the authors of the questions have made an allegation of breach of procedures without indicating what specific procedures would be broken. Although the authors raise questions, § 21 Instructions for the organisation of flights marked by HEAD status in the air force of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, I am talking about this written question, but this instruction in the case of a delegation to London did not apply because it was a civilian flight. And you should know what the documents are in the Prime Minister's firm, sir. [[I know, Minister.]] You were the Secretary of State there, and in addition to that, you absolutely should be familiar with the instructions. She's private, there's a clause on her, but you should know there's an instruction. You've already formulated the courts, and you could have had such knowledge. But it's like ad vocem. The rules governing the organisation of civil flights with the status of HEAD shall be governed by a separate instruction annexed to the classified agreement with LOT signed in December 2013. However, let us be precise. So there's the MON manual, the one you often rely on, but there's also the instruction that applies to charter flights. Moreover, the authors omitted the questions contained - even in the paragraph cited above, the military, so-called. military, because, of course, that's what we call it contractually - in the instruction manual, it is possible in case of an emergency to submit a passenger list within less than 24 hours before the flight. As regards the next issues, it should be noted that no procedure prohibits the joint flight of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Ministers, National Defence, Home Affairs and Operational Commander of the Armed Forces, even this open MON-ow's instruction, which in this case did not and could not apply. This MON-description, the open one we can talk about, on which you are based, and you should not, states that the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister cannot fly together. Mr Morawiecki was in no way appointed as the first Deputy Prime Minister. However, such a position does not even exist, as both Minister Siemoniak and Mr Kierwiński introduced this instruction in 2013, the co-author of the question, who was Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's office, should know, because in the Act on the Council of Ministers we do not have the function of the first, second or entego vice prime minister, and the state, when building the instructions, you concluded it. On the other hand, it is worth pointing out that similar situations took place also during the time of the PO-PSL government in order not to reach far, until September 2015. In the flight Ms.Ewa Kopacz to Kiev took part: Chief of Police, Chief of Border Guard, Head of the General Staff of the Polish Army. Mr Kierwiński also took part in this flight, at least on the list. At that time, this accumulation of the heads of uniformed services did not bother the Member. As regards the formation of the delegation, it should be noted that this is a process between the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the heads of the competent ministries and the host country. Of course, the final decision on the composition of the delegation to London was made in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. The problem of the possible flight of journalists by a government delegation was due to the technical delay, the necessary transfer of CASA from Northolt airport to Luton airport. As a result of this delay, the pilots' working time was exhausted and the need to postpone to morning hours the next day of the launch of the CASA plane from London. This was not on the side and was the fault of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. These things just happen. The decision to allow journalists to travel by government plane was made by the London representative of KPRM who was responsible for organising the visit after receiving clear written information from the carrier that the aircraft could take aboard 67 persons, i.e. he confirmed that such a quantity could be taken away, a set which is located on board the Embraer aircraft. I'm sure there wouldn't be all the media fuss if it wasn't for the problem of balancing the plane. This problem came from a very prosaic fact. The delegation members did not have heavy baggage, so it was not possible to load the front of the plane. Therefore, it is always up to the captain of the aircraft to decide the final decision, even if the carrier considers that we can let a given number of people on the plane. The captain informed that eight people had to leave the plane. As you know, no one was trying to influence the captain of the ship, only the question of who would leave the plane. This issue was resolved quite quickly. The fact that this is not an aviation incident or a rare situation in passenger aviation was probably best written by a journalist of a portal that does not love us, which is hard to suspect of sympathy, about the subject I present. In the context of the above explanations, it is at least surprising to ask about the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents. The Commission does not examine the organisation of the flight to London, because there is simply nothing to investigate at this point. The safety of flights is particularly important to me, Mr President, therefore, at the beginning of the year, in January, I ordered a review of all the procedures and organisation of flights in January. As a result of this review, I issued a resolution on the preparation and preparation of an order for implementation in the Prime Minister's office of new internal procedures for the organisation of flights. Since they will indicate whether or not they result from this classified part, this part must also be secret. So far, the procedures I inherited from your governments have been de facto financial, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, they did not address the issue of the organisation of flights and the responsibility of individual employees for the tasks entrusted. In addition, on my initiative, work has been done to revise all procedures for the organisation of flights involving the most important people in the country - I am finishing up, your marshal - both military and civilian flights. There is no denying that the procedures developed at a time when Minister Siemoniak's Ministry of National Defence was responsible for this are inconsistent both internally and with other legal provisions. That is why we have already started working on this issue from January. For example, the issue of the first Deputy Prime Minister may be referred to here. In addition, I set up a permanent team at the Prime Minister's office for control and compliance with flight organisation procedures. Every flight, after every flight on my desk, there will be a report landing. [[Was he now?]] Yes. You know, but... Can you listen? In January, I set up a team to clean up after you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u22	Minister, why don't we finish this part...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u23	As Head - and I am finishing - the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers I also requested relevant reports on this matter. If any of the slightest shortcomings are found, I assure you that the consequences will be incurred. Legal opinions, in which I also have, as regards the assessment of this implementation for the purposes of criminal law, of this instruction, which, I repeat, is reserved... The only thing I can say about this opinion is that maybe it's enough to reassure you that there's no information there that there's been a crime that I have to report to the D.A.'s office. And, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u24	I'm asking for an assignment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u25	Last sentence, Marshal. Oh, no, because it's still gonna be inquisitive...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u26	There will be an additional question, please stay in the podium. Stay, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u27	Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u28	And I would like to ask you, if I may, to ask a question from the parliamentary jury. It'll be a little faster. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u29	Thank you very much. The Minister, from this statement, but also from earlier press releases, is creating a picture of great chaos in the organisation of official visits by the Prime Minister and members of the Government. We'd like to sort this chaos out a little bit and clear up the issues, the information you're using. First of all, I would like to correct, Minister Kierwiński was not on the flight you were just talking about. [[I didn't.]] I'd like to ask you a question. You're saying there's a secret manual, and I quote, regarding civilian flights. There is no confirmation of this in the facts known to us. I therefore ask whether the provisions of this instruction lower the safety standards of the most important persons in the country in relation to HEAD's instructions? Are the safety standards in this document lowered? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u30	I ask the Minister to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u31	Good. Well, first of all, I would like to quote here the composition of the official delegation. Unfortunately, Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Secretary of State, head of the political office, is mentioned here. Perhaps it is to be confirmed, I have that information, too, but in the first information you were mentioned. [[Minister, I did not attend this visit.]] But I repeat, it doesn't change the fact that the chiefs of staff, all of them, together, in agreement... Once more, because if you want to throw a rock, you have to be on your own. Second thing. You know, you can always tell there's chaos. Surely we must all be allergic, we can always not understand, we can always close our eyes and pretend that we do not understand that there are various documents, and they are produced by governments, which are in force in this area so far. I repeat once again: the team, which has been working very intensively since January, has noticed a lot of inaccuracies in various instructions. I assure you that there is an instruction for charter flights, i.e. civil flights, it is not a military flight, it is probably obvious, it is not difficult to understand, it is and is valid. Does she lower standards? Let me put it this way: no, I think she's also in many places so vague that I've given an order to make an internal instruction, of course, in accordance with this instruction, but it's kind of a clarification of responsibilities... What I could do within my powers, I did. Therefore, I hope that the problem will end at one basic moment: when the most important people in the country or the Polish state will finally have such equipment, such aircraft, that there will finally be no problems with how these people will make business trips to countries even the furthest away from Poland. The tender also, thanks to the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, has, as you know, been settled on one issue, smaller aircraft. Next year, in August, probably, all this indicates that this will happen, the first two planes will appear. As for the next larger aircraft, the tender is already scheduled, the procedure is underway, so I think that soon, very quickly, these decisions will be taken, of course, once the procedure has been exhausted. That is the problem, sir. And we can, really, both... You should have that manual, I hope you know. You shouldn't cause confusion, first of all, that's what I'm asking. I repeat, if there's any, even the slightest, fault, I'm gonna get the consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u32	Thank you so much for answering the additional question. We move on to the next question, this time about the changes in the functioning of the health inspection. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health, will be answered by the Chief Health Inspector Marek Posobkiewicz. Basic and additional questions will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15 You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u33	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I submit a request for current information. The State Sanitary Inspection is, as we know, set up to carry out public health tasks. As part of the work related to the amendment of the Law on State Sanitary Inspection, the position of Minister of Home Affairs and Administration was presented within the framework of the arrangements for this new Act. This position was very concerned by a number of people involved in sanitary inspection as well as trade unions related to sanitary inspection. We know that the changes that had happened before, i.e. the so-called. fusion has led to a number of adverse changes in the functioning of health inspection. An example is the destruction of substances in the form of the decommissioning of accredited laboratories, which, with a large amount of resources, were organised, our national and European resources, employed specialists and performed a very important function. Workers, specialists have been fired and a whole range of these laboratories have been removed, especially in some voivodships. As a result of the merger, the scope of tasks and competences of the district health inspector was reduced. His tasks were raised to a higher voivodship level and somehow flattened this structure, moving it up to the level of voivodship. This will increase the costs of control and reduce the effectiveness of the State Sanitary Inspection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Voivodeship, which is the main administrator of the state budget in relation to these stations.... Well, maybe I'll just get to the questions, because the content itself is probably known. Then why such an important area... I would like to say here that there is a dispute about who is going to answer this question, as this concerns some opposition from the Minister of the Interior, although the matter is the responsibility of the Minister of Health and probably the Minister of Health here would be asked to... Why is this area so important, or is it still under the authority of the Ministry of Home Affairs... of the voivodeship? Did the MSWiA carry out - do you know - any broader analysis of the impact of this planned amendment? Is what is so important to citizens' safety, that is, whether the effects of the pionizing of the health care system...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u34	Mr President, please proceed to the end of the first part.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u35	Okay, thank you. Questions are known. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u36	I would like to ask the chief health inspector, Mr Mark Posobkiewicz, to answer the questions asked by Mr Grzegorz Długo. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for that question. In our amendment, as the Member has also pointed out, we are trying to clarify and straighten out all the things that he has mentioned, among others. it is the supervision of entities whose founding authority is the head or leading authority of an old-timer. At the moment, as you have mentioned, this is in the supervision of the regional health inspector, which means that sometimes workers, in order to reach such an entity, must overcome several dozens, sometimes more than 100 km. In our amendment to the Act, we are restoring the possibility for the chief health inspector to appoint voivodship health inspectors to the voivodship health inspector to the opportunity to appoint district inspectors. The monitoring of these facilities I mentioned earlier will be carried out by the district health inspector again and a coherent policy on the safety of epidemiological diseases, food safety and nutrition, water safety throughout the country will be pursued. As the Member mentioned, there have been various restructurings in different voivodships before. We've been dealing with some kind of voivodship landscaping. We want the same guidelines for all health inspection workers in our country, and that is the will of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u38	I would ask you for an additional question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u39	Thank you very much. Minister, my question is therefore this: Are you faced with some, the name of it directly, resistance from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, because we have signals that, however, this fight of competence, I will call it directly, perhaps a fight for positions, can cause difficulties or torpedo this kind of vertical action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u40	There is a discussion about this at the moment between the resorts, but I hope that, within the framework of the international agreements, the final form of this law, which I presented in a very brief way at the beginning, of course, but the Member certainly knows the principles of this law, will come in, i.e. with the restoration of this vertical structure of health inspection. There is, of course, a discussion in this area, but I hope that everything will be positively finalised.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u41	Thank you so much for your answer. And we're going to go to the next question, which is about the drug refund for patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. It is addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz will answer, and the question will be asked by Members of Law and Justice. We begin with Mr Dariusz Starzycki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I ask the Minister to be interested in the situation of patients with idiopathic IPF pulmonary fibrosis. Estimates indicate that this disease is diagnosed in about a thousand people per year, most often after 55 years of age. This disease kills in most cases faster than the heaviest types of cancer, and only half of them survive 3 years. Unlike patients suffering from other diseases who have access to treatment, patients with IPFs are deprived of any medicines refunded, while therapy for patients with IPFs has been available for several years and is refunded in 23 countries of the European Union. For patients with IPF therapy is the only chance to prolong life and improve its comfort. I therefore ask the Minister, "Will the Ministry take action to refund IPF medications?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u43	I'm asking the Minister to... [[Well, maybe...]] Oh, the second part, please... [[Gawron Andrzej. Yeah, part two.]] It is Mr Jarosław Gonciusz who will complete this part of the question. [[Gawron Andrzej, and then Mr Jarosław Gonciusz will ask an additional question.]] Andrzej Gawron, right? Well, then I got the name right, didn't I? [[Yeah, yeah.]] In that case, Mr Andrzej Gawron will complete the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u44	Minister, this is what I wanted to ask you, because we know that these pulmonary fibrosis drugs, which are registered in the European Union, in the United States, are rather slowing down the development of the disease, they do not reverse it, but it is also important for patients to extend this life span. I have a question: Are there studies in Poland? Are there such centres that carry out research into this disease, and does the Ministry know at what stage these studies are at, and can we also be involved in the investigation of this disease process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u45	I will ask Minister Mark Tombarkiewicz to answer both questions asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u46	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Of course, the problem of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is the Ministry of Health as well known for a long time. It is a disease that mainly affects patients over the age of 60. If the incidence in this group is, say, between 35 and 50 years of age, 27 cases out of 100,000, over 75 years of age, 175 patients out of 100,000. persons. The median survival time was 2.5 and 3.5 years and less than 15%. people affected by this disease are more than 10 years old. So that it is a very severe disease and two preparations available on the world and European market and registered in Poland are really just delaying the development of this disease. It is a disease, the name itself indicates - idiopathic, i.e. without a grasping cause of origin, unrelated to external factors, causing decreased activity through pulmonary fibrosis, thus reducing the gas exchange space in the lungs. His lungs are fibrous, they're less flexible, his vitals are reduced, and the patient just... he's getting more dyspnoea. You could say that the further you're choking, the more you're choking because of the reduction in gas exchange. This, of course, manifests itself with shortness of breath, reduced activity, reduced walking distance, and increased overall body failure. There are two drugs that are available, you can say, in the world. A situation that is based on the so-called. The 2011 Refund Act is as follows. The company submits an application for an assessment of the effectiveness of a given therapy to the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Benefits Tarification, then this assessment is subject to the appropriate position of the Transparency Board and, on the basis of these two documents, the company applies for a refund of a given medicine to the Ministry of Health. This starts with negotiations with the Economic Commission, which operates in the Ministry of Health. It is only after this entire procedural path that the Minister of Health may take and take such a refund decision. About... I'm not gonna talk about sales names, but I'm gonna talk about two preparations. The first preparation received a negative recommendation from the evaluation agency in November 2015 and a negative position from the Transparency Council on 16 November, i.e. the two main institutions negatively assessed the need for reimbursement of this preparation by the health minister. In order for the Minister of Health to make a positive decision on recommendations, he must take 13 different parameters into account. These are, in turn, the views of the Economic Commission, the recommendations of the Technology Assessment Agency, the relevance of the clinical condition concerned, the clinical efficacy of the medicine concerned, the safety of use, the health benefit-risk balance of the medicine or the method concerned, the cost-benefit ratio, the price competitiveness, the impact on the expenditure of the entity obliged to finance, i.e. the payer's budget, the existence of an alternative medical technology - whether the drug has any possible substitution by another drug, the reliability and precision of all these criteria which are assessed, the health priorities set out in the provisions of the Health Benefits Act and the threshold of the cost of an additional year of quality-adjusted life, i.e. the so-called. QALY factor, which is three times the gross domestic product. In 2016, the value of QALY, i.e. an extension of a year of age of the right quality, amounts to PLN 125 995. If the price of the drug, the annual treatment, is below this parameter, then the minister is as if he is authorized from the vending machine to make a positive decision, provided that the other elements mentioned by me are also positively assessed. If this QALY parameter is exceeded it is such a brake, a very strong financial brake to make a refund. Returning to the first medicine, this medicine received two negative recommendations from the evaluation agency and the Transparency Board in November and, despite these negative assessments, the company requested a refund. In July of this year, the Minister of Health made a negative decision, so he rejected this reimbursement application because of the lack of these most important recommendations. On the other hand, in May of this year, on 16 May, the evaluation agency issued a positive opinion, and the Transparency Council issued a positive opinion. However, it was not until October that the company, the manufacturer of this medicine, applied for a refund. The Refund Act is so constructed that the Minister of Health examines applications, but is not an active party, he cannot ask companies to submit a refund application, it is all on the side of the decision of the company, which certainly calculates many different parameters. Thus, it was not until October that the company applied for a refund, and since then talks have been taking place. There have been at least two meetings with the Economic Commission to establish [[♪ The bell ♪]] the final version, whether or not the medicine may be refunded. The case is well known and strongly publicized by the patient community, there have been many parliamentary interpellations. It is also very important that in September this year the European Parliament issued an appeal or a petition that in all European Union countries the treatment for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis should be refunded, available.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u47	We'll put a dot here, Minister, to ask an additional question, and you'll answer completely in the second part. I'm gonna extend it. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u48	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since it is a rare disease and until recently there were no real drugs for this condition, few doctors were interested in this disease. It was also difficult for them to gain experience that would allow them to make a proper diagnosis in a particular patient. That is why in the world, expert centres are being created that identify these diseases, so they have more material, they gain experience, they have more ease of recognition. There are several such centres in France and England. In the Czech Republic, with which we are now starting to cooperate, there are 10 of them - in a 10-million-dollar country - but there are no such centres here. They should be. This would speed up and facilitate recognition and avoid misdiagnosis and misqualified patients for treatment. Can you expect such centers to be around us? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they rise too?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u49	I ask you, Minister, to fill in the answers, as well as to answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u50	Mrs. Marshal! I'll finish the first part. I would like to say that we are at the end of the negotiation process, which, I hope, will end very positively, i.e. paying for one of the drugs available, which is also recognised by the US FDA. I hope that this refund will start on 1 January, and if we do not make it to the end of the negotiations, as the reimbursement notice should be published on 22 December - in March. As far as research centres and general approaches to rare diseases are concerned, rare diseases, as the name suggests, are... This means that there is some basic burden in terms of costs. These are very high costs of medicines that are used in a very small population. Therefore, this currently in force in the Refund Act QALY ratio, i.e. less than 126 thousand. The cost of treatment per year as a justification for the refund is very often exceeded several times. Therefore, these decisions are very difficult, while the revision of the Refund Act, which is currently with us in the Ministry of Health, will assume a different approach - an egalitarian approach, i.e. facilitating access to the wider population of patients by changing the QALY ratio. This is not a rigid holding on to the cost of annual therapy and extending by a year of good quality life. Versus of this we want to introduce a price justification. A company that produces a drug for a very rare disease - so it is usually very expensive - would have to show the Economic Commission where the price came from. If the Economic Commission recognises the correctness of the calculation of this price, then we can make positive decisions despite the very high cost of therapy. As far as expert centres or research centres are concerned, such centres could be created. also with regard to the amendment of the Refund Act, which places a great deal of emphasis on innovation in introduced therapies. This innovation of companies investing in the Polish pharmaceutical industry, but also in the development of research, i.e. R &amp; D segment, R &amp; D, is to be rewarded with facilitating access to drug refunds. The Ministry of Health does not have a direct tool to create such centres, but - what is very important - institutions, clinics, research institutes under the Ministry of Health have submitted about 30 applications to European reference networks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is about creating in our country treatment centers comparable to twin units in Western countries, so that the Polish patient has the same access to treatment in Poland and abroad. So that these kinds of elements are by us as much as possible... We encourage you to enter such networks, while we hope that the effect of the new refund bill will increase the interest of companies in conducting research in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u51	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. It will be asked about a communication from the Ministry of National Defence on the reduction of pensions and pensions for certain soldiers and members of their families. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence, and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartłomiej Grabski. The basic question and additional question will be asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u52	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The Ministry of National Defence issued a communication on the draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply for Professional Soldiers and their Families. This communication contains extremely shocking statements, namely, I quote: The draft amendment of the so-called. The dehubecisation law does not apply at all to the recruiters before 31 August 1990, nor to the professional after 31 August 1990. This project applies only to those who used communist military special forces to strengthen the Soviet Empire in Poland and in the world - the end of the quote. In the opinion of the Ministry of National Defence, it is obvious that the pensions of people who worked for the Soviet totalitarian system were reduced and strengthened. We therefore ask: Does the Minister of National Defence already know that this project reduces the pension of many soldiers who served after 1990? Some of them remain in the service until now. Has the Ministry of National Defence established how many soldiers who served after 1990 will be covered by this regulation? Does the Minister of National Defence uphold the shameful accusation against Polish soldiers that they worked for the Soviet totalitarian system and strengthened it? This bill is very unfair. You can't bring social justice down the drain. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The only thing you can do is hurt. Why will each case not be considered individually? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u53	I ask Minister Mark Tombarkiewicz to respond. I'm sorry, I changed my name for the second time today. Bartholomew Grabski. It's moved on this card, it's changing all the time, and that's why it's a mistake. Excuse me. Minister Bartłomiej Grabski himself will answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the questions of Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, Mrs Bożena Kamińska and Mr Czesław Mrocek, concerning the communication by the Ministry of National Defence on the reduction of pensions for certain soldiers and members of their families, I present the position of the Ministry of National Defence. The Minister of National Defence has been aware of the fact that some of them have remained in service until now since the adoption of the Law on the reduction of pensions for soldiers who served after 1990. The intention of the communication, which appeared on the website of the Ministry of National Defence, was to inform the public about the work that is ongoing in the area of the Act amending the Act on Pension Supply of Professional Soldiers and their Families. It will be possible to determine how many soldiers who served after 1990 will be covered by this regulation when they decide to retire and after considering each of these cases individually on the basis of the actual course of their service. The Resort maintains that pension benefits should be reduced for persons who have served in cells and units used to strengthen the totalitarian system. The catalogue of entities and institutions in the draft law was created on the basis of legal and historical analyses. As a result, it was established that these entities were set up to strengthen the totalitarian legal system by inter alia. surveillance of citizens or indoctrination of soldiers. The tasks performed by soldiers and workers were formulated by Soviet rulers and in most cases against the interests of Poland and its citizens. However, these facts did not interfere with the coalition of PO-PSL in the use of people from these formations in the activity of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland already in free Poland. As an example, let us use the appointment of former General WSW officer in the resting state of Bogusław Pack as Chief of the National Defence Academy by Minister Tomasz Semoniak in 2012. At this point, it should be emphasized that the most important is the place, the cell, as well as their time of service. Another issue is the issue of soldiers and officers who in their professional career had an episode and served for the previous system and then died in free Poland during the performance of their duties. In particular, we are talking about people who died during foreign missions. In this respect, consideration should be given to introducing appropriate amendments to the bill, which would allow eligible family members to maintain their family pensions on the basis of existing rules. The Minister of National Defence is prepared to accept such a change in the project. Similarly, consideration should be given to improving the draft law as regards the situation of soldiers who had performed essential military service before 1990. They had no control over the institution in which they were to serve, but they acted on orders. Such a proposal will also meet with the approval of the Minister for National Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u55	Thank you very much. And I'm asking you for an extra question. If the Member wanted to ask a question from the parliamentary jury, it would be quicker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u56	You're welcome. Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Such legislative action infringes the principle of confidence in the State and its rights, in accordance with Article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and the protection of acquired rights, equality before the law, the guarantee of adequate social security for people unable to work and in particular in need. I ask an additional question: Why? Why will the disabled, widows, children from the dead soldiers, military officers who often risked their health and life for their country, fighting missions in Iraq or Afghanistan? But they were distinguished and decorated not only in the country but also abroad. Why is it that everyone, once again, is gonna be hurt when it comes to families who were really supposed to be taken care of by people, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who have often acted so dangerously from the point of view of professional tasks to protect them, and now feel strongly threatened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u57	You're welcome, Minister. You will answer the additional question, Minister Bartłomiej Grabski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The reduction of pensions and the deprivation of privileges - I mention, privileges - is not the deprivation of people who will be covered by the provisions of this law, means of life. These people will receive an average pension. It is not that, from the point of view of the just state, persons who have been repressed, who have been in the organs of the totalitarian state of the law, the totalitarian system, will receive pensions in the average amount of e.g. in the case of persons in general positions about 10 000. zł. This is not fair from the point of view of the rule of law. The reduction of pensions, not deprivation, as you say, of the privileges of the people of the military apparatus of repression of the Polish People's Republic, is not a need for a moment and political interest, but a restoration of ordinary justice and a command to separate the good from the evil, and this must be emphasised. [[When it comes to these widows and children, there is a really far-reaching interpretation.]] Member, but precisely the catalogue of persons is mentioned in the Act. If you believe that a widow from an officer of the Management Board of II or Division II of the General Staff is a person entitled to a pension of 10,000. Zloty, that's not what we're saying. [[We disagree, but I'm not talking about this situation because it's really sporadic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u59	Minister, continue with your response. The question has already been asked, so that's... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Thank you very much. Then thank you very much. We move on to the seventh question - on the state of preparation of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways for the winter season. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Jerzy Szmit will answer. Basic and additional questions will be asked by Mr Jerzy Bielecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u60	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! He is certainly familiar with the NIK report on, among other things, the Minister's report. the winter road maintenance presented in August and opinion delivered in February 2016. It concerns the work of the previous government. The NIK draws the attention of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways to incorrect verification of offers for winter road maintenance, to tenders so designed that not all companies can participate in them, to the employees of the General Directorate for Roads who worked on company duty, and before preparing tenders and confirming payments for these entities. Contracted machines, vehicles to maintain winter roads were in many cases disabled, did not have technical tests, did not meet the parameters required by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, and sometimes they were not at all. There were delays in preparing for the winter season, the roadmen did not provide adequate stocks of salt and sand. The analysis carried out by NIK for selected cases indicated the possibility of choosing cheaper systems for maintaining winter roads by up to 70%. What steps have been taken to eliminate the irregularities described by the Supreme Chamber of Control with winter road maintenance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u61	I would like to ask Minister Jerzy Szmit for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, The Supreme Audit Chamber's report has indeed shown many irregularities in the functioning of winter maintenance. This report is also very carefully examined. We are trying to learn as fully as possible from these irregularities. There is, for example, a discussion on how to keep roads in the so-called. keep the standard model, so it is called, on the basis of which several years of road maintenance contracts are created in individual areas. We are thinking about how to solve this very important issue, because indeed the projected expenditure, for example this year, for the winter maintenance of national roads, is 18 and 19 thousand. km of national roads, because in this case we are only talking about national roads, is PLN 430 million. So first of all, we're talking about really big money, and second of all, we're talking about road safety, which is based on proper winter road maintenance. Allow me to present at the moment the standard and the scheme in which winter maintenance works, which is carried out by the General Directorate of National Roads, in order to clarify this information. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the General Directorate for National Roads holds around 5%. roads in Poland. Of course, these are the most important roads: highways, express roads, national roads, except for those national roads that pass through cities on the rights of the county. And this image, which is shaped by the maintenance of roads by the general management, on which also the maintenance of roads by voivodships on voivodship roads and on district roads is imposed, it is very different. While we have clearly defined standards on national roads, which I am about to say about winter maintenance, these are three standards, but on local roads such clear, hard regulations simply do not exist. And it is also so that naturally the driver does not care whether he is driving along the way of the voivodship, district or on the national road, he simply wants a well-maintained and safe road. So that it is certain about the problem of Poland. There are situations we hear about very often in winter, for example. in radio broadcasts, that the sander drove over on a snowy road and didn't do any work, didn't pick up, didn't sprinkle. Unfortunately, this is the system of administration on Polish roads today. We have national roads, voivodship roads, county roads and every administrator is responsible for their own roads. This is the case so far, but perhaps it would be worth considering setting standards for winter maintenance, which will apply not only on national roads but also on roads administered by local authorities. But I'm sure it takes a long time to talk to local governments. I'm sure this conversation would be very long and it'd probably be hard to come up with a common position here, but I'm sure you have to try. I'm just gonna talk about the standards that apply to the general management. The first standard is approx. 4800 km of roads. It means a snowmobile, and winter slipperyness is eliminated across the whole width of the road, including hardened roadsides. There must not be a layer of snow on the road. Loose snow may fall up to 4 hours, snow mud up to 6 hours. etc. These are very clear standards. The second standard is 11 300 km of roads. It means a snowmobile, and winter slipperyness is eliminated throughout the width, including hardened roadsides. Snow loose can be up to 4 hours, snow mud up to 6 hours. There may be a layer of snow in progress with a thickness of free movement up to 6 hours. And finally the third standard is about 1800 km of roads. It means a snowmobile all over the width, and slippery is removed at intersections with paved public roads, railway lines, stretches with a slope of more than 4%, bus stops, etc. So we have very clear standards here, and we also need a general directorate as an institution responsible for maintaining simply to account and observe. If there are irregularities, it is simply necessary to speak clearly about them and intervention will be carried out. On the other hand, I would also like to say more about this. Well, information about the state of the roads is posted on the website of the general directorate in the tab of the service for drivers. If we do not know the state of the road after 200 km or 300 km before going on any longer route, you can check this condition in this tab. Detailed information about the weather conditions on the roads is also provided under the 24-hour number of the GDDKiA 19 111 - it is worth remembering, especially in winter, this number 19 111. Approximately 750 cameras and 500 meteorological stations are installed on national roads, from which information on the state of the roads is obtained. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also strongly encourage everyone to use this source of information about the state of the roads in winter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u63	I'm asking you a question... Stay here, Minister. ...additional. Mr President, I ask you to do his job.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Minister has already mentioned in part another system of road maintenance in winter. Is the Ministry trying to change this system? It seems that here the NIK indications indicate that this would be a cheaper system. I know that local governments are using a mixed system right now. And I also wanted to ask you about the agreements between local governments, because it really upsets the drivers when they see plows riding with this raised plow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! The way the winter road maintenance scheme is the area that we've been analyzing since the beginning of our office, that is, for a year now. I think that we will be summing up these discussions and studies this year, because here action must be taken in advance. There are contracts for several years, so we have to consider that too. However, here I completely agree that we need to analyse this very thoroughly, especially since the NIK report provides very disturbing information. This is something that we need to think very deeply about and choose the best possible solution. However, as far as cooperation with local governments is concerned, today we are very open to this in order to maintain the conditions of security in order to maintain the conditions of communication cohesion of Poland. Here, too, the problem is that on the one hand there is a general management or the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, and on the other hand we have more than 2 000. actors as participants in the discussion. If we look at it this way, it's about communal roads, county roads, voivodship roads, these entities are over 2 000. total, and it's over 2,000. - they are separate entities actually carrying out their duties in accordance with the law. However, there are organisations, of course, and we want to talk about it... because such a situation, in which we cannot provide a uniform standard or at least a uniform standard, because it is difficult to talk about the same in Poland, of course the national roads, express roads, and otherwise the district or communal roads, are understood, while the idea is that the inhabitants, so that Poles can expect that in the case of a given road at least in such a way and in such a way, the longest in such a period and at such a time since the end of the precipitation, the road will be brought to one state or another. Such a standard is necessary in Poland, because even if we see that in recent years, so it is in my opinion, the winter maintenance of roads has improved very much, and even we see that when winter attacks occur, these actions are taken very quickly, but there is always a lot to be done here, because nature has its strength and man sometimes against the forces of nature is helpless. It's hard to expect if there's very heavy snowfall, if there's a change in temperature from minus to plus, and the road freezes... before the equipment gets cold. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it will arrive before action is taken, there is a period during which this danger actually occurs. We will do everything we can to make this period as short as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u66	Thank you so much for your answers. We move on to the next question - on the announcements by the Government of Law and Justice of the Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak. The first question will be asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! On 1 August 2015, it entered into force so-called "the Council'. Anti-violence convention. The purpose of the convention, the idea of which was born at the Council of Europe Summit held in Warsaw in 2005, is among others. eliminating all forms of discrimination against women and promoting equality between women and men, including by strengthening the position of women, developing broad strategies to protect and support all victims of domestic violence, protecting those affected by violence and effectively prosecuting and punishing the perpetrators of violence. Unfortunately, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, has stated in recent weeks that I am in favour of giving up the anti-violence convention. And, unfortunately, the subject of Poland's ratification of this document comes back. The Ministry of Justice also admitted that Deputy Minister Łukasz Piebiak initiated a discussion on a convention to gather the views of other ministries. The Convention obliges signatories to prosecute ex officio rapes, to create shelters, support centres, a hotline for victims of domestic violence. According to various data, more than 800,000 are victims of physical or sexual violence in Poland every year. Women. The vast majority of cases are domestic violence. These are victims of violence that need real support, but the government plans to deprive them of it. Therefore, I have questions for the Prime Minister, the Minister, I understand. First of all, why did the government decide to denounce the anti-violence convention? Secondly, why did the government decide to withdraw from the protection of the rights of women and children who are victims of domestic violence? And why does the government refuse to help the help of the helpless, the hurted and the humiliated [[♪ The bell ♪]] The victims of domestic violence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u68	I would like to ask Minister Luke Piebiak for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer Mrs Pomaska's question, why the government has decided to denounce the anti-violence convention. The government has not decided to denounce the anti-violence convention. Indeed, there has been a debate in public space for several years on this document. He is accepted, he is ratified, he is in force in the Polish order, and for the time being there is no government position to denounce the convention, which does not mean that such discussions do not take place in the bosom of government members. They roll, but there's no decision made. Why do they roll, there's no need to repeat it either. Apart from the grand title and part of the most glorious provisions, for which there is no doubt, there are also things that raise doubts, such as. the concept of socio-cultural gender, i.e., from English, gender, which seems to be a non-scientific concept and a concept that introduces more confusion and evil than good. But there is no government decision - I answer your question. The second question, if it can be assessed, is a bit of an abuse, because if the Member asks whether the government decides whether or not the government decides to withdraw from the protection of the rights of women and children who are victims of domestic violence, then there is the argument that the government has decided to withdraw from such protection, and this is a broader thesis than it would have been from point 1. The government has not decided to denounce the anti-violence convention. What will happen in the future, we will see, but certainly neither now nor in the future will the government withdraw from the protection of women's and children's rights. The protection of women's and children's rights is protected in various ways in Polish law. The Polish Government stresses these issues and in criminal law, and in the area of family law, broadly understood law, and social assistance are instruments, and they will be strengthened and strengthened in order to protect the rights of women and children, including those who are victims of domestic violence. Moreover, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is working on a law that will protect women's and children's rights even better than today, including those who are victims of domestic violence. And the third question is more or less maintained in the same convention, which is why the government refuses to help vulnerable, hurt and humiliated victims of domestic violence. That is not true, this thesis put in this question, because the government does not refuse to help, the government provides this help. We have excellent solutions, we have a specific fund to provide various forms of assistance to victims of domestic violence as well as other victims of various kinds of crime. So that I wanted to stress that there is no decision today, there is no formal work started. The government or individual members of the government have the right to express their opinion on this act, but this act is in force. The government is particularly concerned about protecting the rights of victims of crime, in particular domestic violence against women and children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u70	Thank you so much for answering that question. And Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club, will ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u71	Minister, you have responded so disrespectfully, frankly, I have the impression, or you have responded as if Minister Rafalska was not a member of the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Therefore, I have a question: Is there any cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy on this convention? Was there a discussion at the government meeting on this matter? Can we treat Minister Rafalski's statement in terms of some kind of freak? Did Minister Rafalska withdraw from her statement? I would stress that her statement on the termination of the anti-violence convention was clear, which is why this is our question today, and I would expect the Minister to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Some kind of in-depth analysis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u72	I ask the Minister of Justice of Łukasz Piebiak to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is not for me to judge the statements of one of the members of the government, in this case Minister Rafalska. Minister Rafalska, like any other member of the government, has the right to evaluate the various parts of social reality, including those regulated so-called. the anti-violence convention. This is the position of the Minister, probably shared also by some other members of the government and by some other members not shared. As we all know, the government acts in a collegial manner and the various opinions of various members of the government are taken into account. As of today, there has been no discussion in the Council of Ministers, no formal agreement on what should be done with this Convention and whether or not it should be terminated. This is the position of one of the members of the government, and it is not the only one. If you were asking me about my personal life, I would also say that it is the same, but the government makes decisions collegially after considering all the arguments for and against. [[Same as...?]] Same as Minister Rafalski. There is no cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in the context of the termination of the anti-violence convention. Indeed, as the Ministry of Justice has admitted, I specifically initiated a discussion on this subject. It is probably the result of such a discussion that Minister Rafalska, an important and reliable member of the government, has expressed her own opinion on this convention. I repeat, no formal steps have been taken, and I don't think the discussion is anything wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u74	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a time-out. 12. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 36 hours 12 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 27 of the agenda. We'll proceed with question nine. The question is asked by Members: Mr Jacek Sasin, Mrs Ewa Szymańska and Mr Adam Oldakowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the effectiveness of the changes introduced by the fuel package aimed at sealing the collection of VAT on liquid fuels from abroad. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Wiesław Jasiński will answer. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Szymańska a question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Act of 7 July 2016 amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, so-called. the fuel package, amended the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services, the Act on Energy Law, the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas, and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Act on excise duties. The main objective of the changes introduced by the fuel package was to seal VAT collection for the trading of liquid fuels abroad. This package entered into force on 1 August this year. I have questions about that. After 4 months of operation of the package, how do you assess the effects of the rules introduced? How much did they improve the state of the liquid fuel market and block the billions of zlotys coming out of it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u76	Thank you. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you so much for that question. Questions of this type, questions about the law that you have passed, the High House has passed, asked after 4 months, I consider it a concern about how the government applies the law that Parliament has adopted in such an important area as the sealing of the tax system in a situation where the Republic needs funds to finance many projects that have not yet been implemented. That's why I'm responding. I will present a number of numbers, but I would also like to say earlier about the situation that caused the High House to proceed over this law in June and July, and we apply it. Since 2011, fuel prices have started to rise sharply. This year there was also record consumption of diesel - almost 16 million m3. In the following years, at prices still above 5 PLN, the official consumption started to decline - I stress - while the intra-Community acquisition of goods steadily increased. The conclusion is that this was the moment when criminal groups identified the enormous cost-effectiveness of the illegal business of providing cheaper, untaxed fuel. With fuel mafias, because such a term should be used, in Poland we have had a problem since the beginning of the 1990s, but after 2011 this problem was quite precisely defined. It was the result of an action in the area of intra-Community acquisitions of goods. In 2012-2014, the total consumption decreased by 14,7%. Compared to 2011 At the same time, intra-Community imports of diesel into the country reached a record value of 4.6 billion l in 2015. One might ask: What actions has the finance department taken over the years to counteract this pathology? The answer is one: no effective. However, there have also been some very psychic projects. At the turn of 2012 and 2013, the then Minister of Economy prepared a solution abolishing the requirement to have a licence for the production, storage and marketing of fuels. This was justified by the simplification of the rules of regulation in order to make it easier for new entrants to enter the market. Fortunately, this legislative initiative has not been implemented. What changes in the fuel package did he make? Change one, change in principle fuel WNT settlement. Tax collection takes place at the time of transport of fuel essentially through the payer, which makes potential fraud in the form of an unreliable monthly declaration less likely and is certainly more quickly detected by the administration. In August, 98 million PLN, 107 million PLN in September, 177 million PLN in October and 186 million PLN in November, a total of nearly 600 million PLN. Secondly, regulation of the system. There has been regulation of the system to purchase WNT fuels for another entity and excise checks. The compensation can only be paid to a Polish VAT taxable person who owns the fuel and has an OPZ licence. The need to meet all these conditions together significantly reduced the number of potential fraud actors. Currently, only 30 entities, including six entities with foreign status, fulfil these conditions, while in 2015 only foreign entities importing fuel were 65. These two, of course, are only the most important changes made to the fuel package. What was the financial impact of the fuel package? First of all, there's a sharp increase in legal sales. The data of the Polish Oil Industry and Trade Organisation shows an increase of 29 percent in August, 26 percent in September and 17 percent in October compared to last year. Despite the lower growth in fuel sales by the companies, October was the third best month of sales since 2011. Secondly, a significant decrease in intra-Community purchases of fuels to Poland through registered customers. Compared to August-October 2015 and the same period in 2016, a decrease of 63% for diesel and 51% for petrol is observed. Thirdly, we note the increase in acquisitions carried out by tax warehouses, so-called. group, as part of official imports - August-October - from 374 million l in 2015 to 569 million l in 2016. The increase in acquisitions by companies is driven by an increased demand for legal fuel. Fourthly, there is a significant reduction in the export of diesel by domestic producers. So far exports have grown from 140% to 300% each year because domestic producers were unable to sell all their production in the country. In August-October year-to-year exports with WDT decreased by 47%. Each litre of fuel not exported but sold in the country is PLN 1.17 excise duty and 80 gr VAT and 28 gr fuel levy. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u78	Thank you. Before I ask for an additional question, I would like to inform the High House that our discussions are being listened to by young people from the School Complex in Chrzanów, janowski district, [[Applause]] Mr Bielecki invited the young people. We greet the young people and the pedagogical group. Will there be an additional question, Commissioner? [[Yeah, I'm on it.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u79	Minister! Thank you for this answer, and I have a question about future actions. How does the Ministry of Finance coordinate the further sealing of this industry, which is able to adapt in a very fast and efficient manner to changing regulations?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u80	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By giving these figures, I would like to stress that the fuel package first of all addressed irregularities in intra-Community acquisitions of goods. These figures show that the problem has been significantly reduced. This does not mean that there are no other irregularities in the fuel industry either. At the moment, we see, above all, that criminal groups are smuggling fuel under the pretence of transporting lubricants, anti-corrosion oils, rape oils, various other substances, thus reducing budgetary revenue. What actions are we doing at the moment? We have decided to take very intensive measures related to the control of autocysterns through surgical and cognitive activities in a completely different methodology than it has been used so far. Customs controls are also being carried out at the moment ending in criminal proceedings. At the moment we are also finishing work on a draft law on monitoring the transport of goods by road, which will introduce a system of electronic supervision of goods, a system based on registration of information about transported, imported, exported goods, as far as the Republic is concerned. One of the main such sensitive goods is fuel. The second element of this system will be the location, but the most important element will, of course, be control activities. I would like to make it clear here that, by far, coordinated human action is the best tool for reducing crime in the fuel sector. The most important is the operation of certain services, which are established in Poland to limit this crime. We will also put in place coordinated actions, checks coordinated against registered customers or tax warehouses to determine directly during the audit whether the fuel package is being implemented. It also appears that what is recorded by the industry, namely cooperation in lawmaking, is extremely important. Right now, for example. The Ministry of Finance is working together with the Ministry of Energy on amendments to the Energy Law Act. So that we are prepared, we are preparing for ever-changing crime in the fuel industry. Mr. Marshal, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u82	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Member State Teresa Nolas and Krzysztof Głuchowski, also the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will ask a question about the actions that have been taken to build awareness of the value of heritage in Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Magdalena Gawin, corresponds. The first question is asked by Mrs Teresa Nolas. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u83	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Today's question relates to the activities undertaken by the Ministry of Culture and Heritage in favour of cultural goods, such as all works of art and historical objects and all intangible goods, such as cultural heritage. An important element of the dissemination and promotion of heritage activities is the Minister's list of the most valuable and distinctive elements of our cultural heritage. An example of this is UNESCO World Heritage Lists. The question concerns the activities of the cultural department in the scope presented this year. Does the Ministry promote and distinguish between cultural intangible heritage, which is undoubtedly Polish national dances, regional noises as a carrier of oral traditions, embroidery or toy and widely understood folk art, dinguistic traditions, caroling traditions or other forms of national traditions, regional songs and various rites? In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact of the increasing degradation of historical objects, those badly sold, as shown by some local governments. I would like to draw particular attention to the former good of Count Kajetan Kicki, the great philanthropist who gave all his assets to the social interests of the government's association of agricultural settlements in the villages of Orłów Murwany and Sobieszyn in Lublin Voivodeship. Dear Minister, It all consists of our cultural heritage, which lives in generations and lives should always, with the appropriate support of the Ministry. For this reason, I have allowed myself to address these questions to the Minister. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u84	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the questions, they are insanely important. I am also very pleased that schoolchildren will be able to listen to this answer. Of course, cultural heritage is a very important part of the functioning of the state. Each country strives to build, disseminate, promote heritage. This year the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage focused on three main areas, i.e. on the issue of historical monuments - I remind you that the monuments of history are the highest rank for monuments due to their scientific, historical, artistic value - then on the list of Treasures of Heritage - the list of Treasures Heritage is an equivalent of a list of historical monuments, only for moving monuments - and on a list of intangible cultural heritage, which you have already mentioned. Maybe now I'll try to discuss these three activities one at a time. By 2015, we had 60 objects recognized as historical monuments. The monument of history is not only a unique object because of the values I spoke about, but also an object which, as the name suggests, fits in some important way in the history of Poland and the nation. By improving the procedure related to this title, 15 historical monuments were accepted this year, i.e. They were, so to speak, adopted by the Council for the Protection of Monuments, and this was now addressed to the signature of the President. This is 15 new objects plus 16, which gained such an extensive record. This procedure has been improved in such a way that... She assumes there are two paths. There is one social path, i.e. the manager of a particular object, a unique architectural object, can itself bring to the National Heritage Institute for recognition as a monument to history. But there is also a second path on which I also put the emphasis, because it is connected with the responsibility of the state. Not all managers or owners of these objects bring it in, so here it is about the great role of the National Heritage Institute and those outstanding specialists that we have, namely art historians, conservationists, so that they also examine this entire collection of our records and, however, they also want to pay attention to certain objects that have not yet appeared. By 2015, this road looked more or less in such a way that proposals were dealt with in the order of impact. What was the effect? The result was that the Benedictine Abbey in Tyniec, which qualifies for recognition as a monument to history, as it were from a vending machine, was simply an undisputed, great good culture, had to wait in queue, because before this abbey there were other objects that were, I would say, disputed, debatable, controversial. And we've changed that path. I have asked specialists from the National Heritage Institute to consider, however, those objects for which there is absolutely no objection and which should be recognized as soon as possible. Therefore, this year we can say that we have 15 new objects, monuments of history, which will be directed to the signature of the President, plus 16, for which there is an extension of the entry - it was Katowice, because in Katowice they are considered a monument to the history of both the cathedral and the building of the Seym. And that's the first thing about the memorial of history. About the monuments of history The National Heritage Institute also produces films that are intended to deepen social, cultural awareness in relation to what good the outstanding architecture is - that it is in architecture that there is a certain identity of the nation, that it is our culture, tradition, history, politics that in these architectural objects as in the lens is simply everything. The second point is the new protection for moving monuments. She's a little similar to the one about the landmarks. This is the Heritage Treasure List. The list of Heritage Treasures is a new form of protection of monuments introduced on the basis of legislation which entered into force on 25 November 2016. According to the Act, a moving monument of special value for cultural heritage is entered on the Heritage treasure list. In other words, from moving monuments, i.e. paintings, sculptures, we separate some pool, which we consider to be of particular importance to the Polish state, and which is subject to special security and maintenance rigors. In 2017, it is planned to include the first most valuable monuments in the history of Poland and the identity of Poles in museums, libraries and archives. The Member has just spoken of an intangible heritage. I am pleased to announce that in 2016 16 new skills, practices related to intangible heritage, were included in the Polish list of intangible heritage. Let me remind you that this is a list, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which also functions... I'm gonna go, okay? So I wanted to say that there are 11 of these entries, that it is also very important for the promotion of Polish cultural heritage. It's just the last sentence. I wanted to say that in 2016 we managed to ensure that the intangible heritage concerned not only Poland but also abroad. Here the Ministry of Culture conducts a number of activities, but in 2016 we managed to explain the situation that has been going on since the 1960s. The 20th century, that is, we managed to lead to registration in Austria of the camp, KL Gusen appeal square, the place of extermination of Polish intelligence. I believe that this is a step in the right direction to properly commemorate this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. And I ask for an additional question from Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u87	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask about the future and possibilities of regional museums, which are small individuals under the care of local government, and about the future of sacral structures under the care of parishes and religious associations, which, against the background of large and recognized institutions in the country, often feel underestimated and alone in action. They present their collections in a way other than official museums, but they cannot in any way be denied the full right to promote culture and preserve cultural heritage. They often occupy areas that nobody deals with, in a geographical sense, but also in the area concerned. They are original and feel the soul in them, they are often local cultural sites. To what extent can you participate in the activities of these museums and parishes? It seems that there are two possibilities: either leave these museums and parishes to themselves, looking at their activities, and treat them as a research source, or help them and strengthen their activities. What kind of help would that be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On education, organising seminars, workshops, supporting scientific activities and publishing knowledge on the subject, helping to obtain funds, and, above all, creating such regulations, so that they are separate from those addressed to better organized institutions and take into account the needs and opportunities of small museums and parishes with very valuable works of Polish culture under their care. Does the Ministry foresee such action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u88	Thank you, sir. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u89	Thank you so much for that question. These are really very important questions when we are talking about regional museums, because these regional museums contain local memory, which is very, very important. We know that the whole history and attachment to cultural heritage begins with this degree of locality. I mean, I can't imagine identifying Polish citizens with the history of Poland without this attachment to a small homeland. I can say that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage is doing a lot of work in this direction to help these regional museums to help these local historians and communities interested in local history. And that's what the minister's programs are all about. We have entire programs concerning the purchase of museum collections, also various activities which are very strengthening or expanding so-called. Memory chambers, because sometimes these are just chambers of memory, which should only be remodeled, redesigned or upgraded. We're extremely sensitive about this. Moreover, we believe that there is such a microcosm in every local history, that is where the history of this great Poland, Europe, etc. is concentrated. So it's not just that this story is closed like in a capsule and it only applies to these small cities. On the contrary, sometimes these small towns, local centres reflect certain processes of a nationwide or even pan-European nature. I say it with full responsibility as a professor of history. So that we are extremely sensitive on this point, and we hope that these Minister's programmes, which are now over, lasted until the end of November, will be very helpful in developing these local centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u90	Thank you very much, Minister, for this comprehensive reply. Let's move on to the next question. Mrs Anna April, Mr Andrzej Kryj and Mr Andrzej Costowniak, a question on monitoring the professional fate of graduates - to the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Minister Piotr Dardziński will answer. Mrs Anna April and Mr Andrzej Costowniak are the first questions to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u91	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! After years of persistent growth, unemployment in Poland has consistently decreased and reached 8.2% in November. This indicator does not describe all phenomena related to the labour market. The situation of young people in the labour market has remained a problem over the last few years. The unemployment rate among university graduates has remained at a very high level of over 20% over recent years, which is more than the EU average. The lack of compatibility of the offer of education in relation to the labour market has often been invoked, which is why since this year a nationwide system of monitoring of the Economic Fate of Higher Education Graduates has been implemented in order to get to know the professional fate of graduates and to adapt the offer of education to the requirements of the labour market on the basis of data analysis. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: Do we already know the first results of studies of the professional fate of graduates? What conclusions from the data analysis can we already implement to make an appropriate adjustment for higher education?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u92	You're welcome, Minister. Oh, no, I'm sorry. You're still an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to return to the nationwide system of monitoring the Economic Fate of Graduates. The first question is whether all universities have implemented this system and if not, I would like to know what scale it is. We're talking. And has this potential, which is already part of some research attempt, been passed on to secondary school graduates, so that they can make a clear benefit of it? Basically, they should know which courses are most attractive to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u94	Thank you. And I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you so much for asking. And I'm responding to part one, whether all the universities have put in place a system for monitoring the fate of graduates. The entity that carries out the entire process of monitoring the fate of graduates is the Ministry. In this respect, the role of universities is limited to the proper replenishment of data in the POL-on system. And here all universities are connected to this system. These data are gradually supplemented in due course. The system itself monitors the fate of graduates works automatically and it connects two bases: POL-on base with the ZUS database, and generates reports that can be used through the graduate website.Science. gov.pl all citizens of the Republic of Poland, but this web page is dedicated especially - and here I answer the second question of the Member - to seniors or to all those who maybe a little later than immediately after graduation would like to take studies. It allows to generate a report on the employment of individual graduates, grouply, in a given direction. So it does not generate reports at the level of the entire university, although this is possible, but it allows a potential student to get answers to the question of how a particular direction at a particular university, and more specifically how the graduates from this particular university find or do not find jobs in the market. As part of the report, this high school graduate gets information about how long the graduates have been looking for work, what is the stability of their employment, or whether after they got a job, they often changed it, and the third element, he gets information about how much the graduates have been earning in this direction on average. At the same time, which is very important, this information is generated at the level of data connected also to the GUS database, i.e. they are generated at the level of powiats. If we evaluate the risk, e.g. unemployment, i.e. how long the period of looking for work is, is not given, which is given on average across the country, only this is given, which is given to the district in which this university is located and this graduate is studying, which is very important, because it allows us to see a little more precisely what the situation looks like when it comes to the fate of graduates. Sometimes we think that they find work quickly and easily only students in major universities, in large cities. It may be a surprise to some that sometimes smaller universities in smaller towns prepare their graduates much better for the needs of the local labour market. Thus, since the announcement of the first reports, which were published on 18 May 2016, the Ministry is now taking action to promote this instrument, because its effectiveness will depend on how many potential candidates for studies simply generate the right for themselves, for them individually... That's why it's valuable in this system that he very individualizes this information for a student. By the way, if I may say, this is one of the first systems in Europe to monitor the fate of graduates in this respect. Only the Swedes have the same, but our system is much more advanced, it processes much more data, so that it is some kind of social innovation, if you can say so, in the field of monitoring the fate of graduates. And what's very important is that we work on data, not opinions. These are not surveys, these are real, hard data that are connected to the system, as I said, POL-on and the ZUS system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u96	Thank you. And an additional question, Mr Andrzej Kryj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The professional situation of graduates depends on many factors and is not only dependent on the quality of education at universities, but also very often depends on the condition of the local labour market. At this point we are aware that the data for the ELA system is generated from the ZUS system and from the POL-on system, so here we have entities on the one hand university, on the other from the ZUS system. Somewhere along with all this there are district labour offices, which have active instruments to create precisely the situation on the local labour market. I would like to ask the Minister whether, on the basis of these experiences which are already there, it is not necessary to cooperate more closely with [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the District Labour Offices, because this is where the fate of graduates looking for a job meets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u98	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Of course, the answer to this question is: yes, there is a need for closer coordination of actions both at the level of ministries and at local or local level. As I said earlier, the system has been operating since May this year, so we do not have much experience yet, but the key to the implementation of this project will now be the ability to use this data successfully. So far, the entire system has a very large database. The earlier question concerned the question of how students, potential students, will benefit from this, now it is a good question about how they will be able to use this data both government and local government administration. We are very encouraging universities and we are also conducting a promotional campaign in which we draw the attention of universities to the fact that they are more aware of the phenomena that occur in their environment and environment. Hence, in the strategy of Prime Minister Gowin there is the third pillar, which speaks of social responsibility. We also encourage universities to cooperate with labour offices, with district labour offices, and ELA is as if an ideal instrument, because it provides material on the basis of which these labour offices can start talking with these universities, which is particularly important in the case of state-owned universities, vocational schools, where responsibility for preparing these local professionals is to a large extent borne by them. So I answer briefly this question: we have the first experience, we will further develop this cooperation at government level, as well as encourage universities to continue at local level. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. That concludes the questions. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this session of the Sejm, information will be discussed on the government's efforts to improve the situation on the labour market, raise wages and employ workers, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Beata Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many months, optimistic news has been coming from the Polish labour market. The employment and employment rates in Poland have significantly improved in relation to other countries of the European Union. The unemployment rate is also positive, which is below the average in the European Union for another year in a row. According to data published by Eurostat for October 2016, the harmonised unemployment rate in Poland was 5.7% versus 8.3% in the European Union for persons aged between 15 and 74. On the other hand, the recorded unemployment rate reached 8.2% , the lowest in the last 25 years. Improving the situation on the labour market is also the result of an increasing number of jobs, and consequently the number of job offers that go to employment offices has increased. Optimistic should also be looked at actions taken by labour offices, which are increasingly targeted at support for the unemployed, thus increasing the effectiveness of the actions undertaken, which is not a simple process, because the most difficult customers remain in employment offices. Only during the period of 10 months this year. active labour market programmes have benefited from nearly 500 000. unemployed persons. In comparison with the corresponding period of 2015, this means an increase in the number of activated persons. As you can see from these figures, the situation on the labour market has improved, especially in the rule of law and justice. However, there is still a large variation in the situation of the various unemployed groups in the labour market, in particular those in the most difficult situation in the labour market. These are among others. long-term unemployed, unemployed from older age groups, as well as young people. In addition, it should be pointed out that even with regard to workers, the situation is varied and even very difficult because, despite employment, not all workers earn a decent living and family support level. That is why so far many of these people have decided to travel abroad to seek better working and living conditions. It is disturbing that many of these people have remained abroad permanently. Poland needs its citizens. We need to do everything we can to provide access to work for everyone who wants to work here. Those who cannot find this job because they have worse skills than others or education, whether they are even less resourceful in life than others, or who live in areas where there are no employers or employers who do not want to hire new workers, should be given broad care and support in terms of professional activation and social security. We also need to support employers so that they want to hire new workers and encourage them to hire workers for employment contracts, not to leave them in the grey area. We are implementing initiatives here in the Sejm on an ongoing basis, which have a positive impact on the economic situation of Poles. However, we are aware that despite the visible improvement of the economic situation in Poland many Poles are still living badly. It is therefore necessary for the government not to forget those who are in a difficult situation due to lack of work and to continue to take action that will improve the situation of those in particularly difficult situations of life and occupation. Action is also needed to improve the standard of living of citizens, among others. by adopting new solutions affecting the level of minimum wage guarantees and reducing labour market abuse, e.g. as regards the application of particularly low remuneration rates in the context of civil law contracts. We expect government action to make Poles feel more secure in the labour market, that they will be given access to work or activation programmes through which they will find work, which will enable them to meet their basic social needs. And in this context, my question is: What is the current government doing to further improve the situation on the labour market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u102	Thank you, Member. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Madam President, for this question about the situation in the labour market, the increase in wages and the employment of workers. It is worth, I think, to start with this information, which Madam President has already said that today we have the lowest unemployment rate for 25 years - 8.2%. I will talk about the data at the end of October, but we already know that the data at the end of November are similar, which is the unemployment rate It will also be 8.2% at the end of November. These are good figures, but we are also aware that unemployment is diverse and there are regions in a country where unemployment is two-digit. When we look at the map of Poland, there is Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship - 13.7% , i, with the lowest unemployment, Wielkopolskie Voivodship - 5%. So unemployment is over 10% in six voivodships. , in the others below, with the lowest unemployment in Wielkopolska. But also such a specific voivodship is the Mazowieckie voivodship, where Warsaw itself has very low unemployment, and in the area around Warsaw unemployment is much higher. It is also worth noting here that when we had the highest unemployment rate among the European Union countries in 2004 and 2006, today we are at the forefront of those countries where unemployment is lowest - 5.7% , and the average in the Union is 8.3%. This puts us in 5, 6 places among the countries of the European Union, i.e. this positive trend. That is why we are happy about this, but we are also aware, as the President said, that today the biggest problem facing us is the activation of the long-term unemployed. Over 56% unemployed These are long-term unemployed people, i.e. those who are unemployed for more than 12 months. We know that these people are the hardest to activate. And that's the task we're facing. And you can also add that almost 30% of them These are people without professional qualifications or without professional experience. These indicators show where we should be headed. So that while enjoying a low unemployment rate, it is also worth remembering what problems we face. The second information worth mentioning here is the number of job offers. During 10 months of this year there were over 1300 thousand. job offers, i.e. more than 16% more job offers than in 2015 This also shows that for many, many years the employment offices have not had such a number of job offers. Undoubtedly, the improvement of the market situation, the issue of activation of the unemployed, has had a major impact on the intensity. When we activated more than half a million unemployed in 2015, at the end of October, at the moment, we are also approaching this number. At the end of the year, this figure will therefore be much higher. This is also a good time, but it is also affected by this factor that we have launched funds to activate and prevent unemployment already in January, at the beginning of the year, i.e. there was a time to make it as fast as possible. to be able to implement activation programmes, so we avoided such a typical unemployment spike, that is, a seasonal leap. If we look at the number of job offers, we will see that one of the available offers falls in 6 unemployed, 7 unemployed in the previous year. This also shows that these actions are moving in a positive direction. Active labour market policies, i.e. what we spend our money on, are also important. As regards the amount of these funds, it is worth recalling here that there was more than 7 billion in 2016 to finance tasks carried out by county labour offices, provincial labour offices, OHP, and in 2017 will be higher than in 2016 the amount of the Labour Fund for active forms of combating unemployment. This amount will be higher by 400 million. And it is also clear that this should improve the labour market situation even more. It can also be stated that at the end of October we have already mobilised additional amounts from the labour fund's reserve, which we provide at the request of district labour offices, i.e. where there is demand. We have funds, we transfer and there is no problem, it only depends on the activity of the county labour offices, which work we want to use. Various information may be provided to you about these active forms. I'll just mention it. on grants for business start-ups and reimbursement of the cost of equipment and job replacements. Within 10 months more than 650 million PLN were transferred to start up business, which allowed for the creation of more than 33 thousand. new jobs. During the same period, expenditure incurred for the reimbursement of the cost of equipment or the replacement of jobs in the amount of over PLN 300 million contributed to the creation of more than 16 thousand. new jobs. An important element in our government's policy is the situation of young people. This is the group that's exposed to the highest degree of unemployment. This youth unemployment is falling. This is also supported by the Youth Guarantee Programme, which we are implementing with EU funds, with the help of Volunteer Workers, but also by a programme covering people up to the age of 30, which has entered into force since 1 January of this year. These actions show that the situation on the labour market for young people is improving, but it still needs to continue with the measures that have been taken and improve. With regard to changes in the area of labour law - because we are also talking about this, we are asking about wages, about employment - it is of course a very important issue that we pay attention to, are workers' rights, it is an increase in wages, it is the fight against the so-called. Pathologists in the labour market, the fight against garbage contracts. The result of one such decision, which we have taken, is the entry into force of 1 September of the amendments to the Labour Code concerning the elimination of the so-called. First-day syndrome. Let me remind you that until now the employment contract could have been received by the end of the first day of work. Now, after this change, the employment contract has to be delivered before admission to work. This should to a large extent minimise circumvention of the law. The State Labour Inspection came for inspection, the employer claimed it was work on the first day, and it was known that this work had already been done for several months. The second very important issue that we pay attention to is the increase in wages. The decision of the Council of Ministers to increase the minimum wage since 2017 - the amount of PLN 2000 - shows how our government is going to raise the minimum wage. It is worth noting here that for the first time in the history of the minimum wage negotiations there has been a situation that the trade union side has proposed a lower amount in terms of the increase in the minimum wage. The government decided that it would amount to PLN 2,000. This also involves a very important amendment that we have made, i.e. the introduction of the 12th and from 1 January the 13th hour rate at the contract order. This should significantly eliminate pathologies that have been on the Polish labour market so far. We had contracts for taro-gold contracts, and even a couple hundred and ten-dollar contracts - I saw a contract for 25 gr per hour. The introduction of this into contract contracts and where there are self-employed persons should make such pathology impossible. To do this, an amendment to the law has to be added, which has resulted in the contract of the order being reduced from 1 January to the minimum wage. That too, I think, will cause that pathology to go away. In addition, we have strengthened the State Labour Inspection, which at the moment will be able to control the use of such contracts illegally, it is about escape or it is about works contracts, whether in a different form, among others. self-employment. That's where we're headed. I'm running out of time. Just a little bit more. What's going on right now? We are before the Council of Ministers' decision to amend the rules on temporary employment. We're making changes here, too. We are negotiating with the social partners to bring about a situation where temporary work is really temporary and will not be used, as is currently the case, to circumvent the law. That's why we want to change some of the provisions of this law. I hope that, following the adoption by the Council of Ministers, this law will come into force from 1 July next year. She will deal with both temporary work and temporary work agencies. Mr. Marshal! I think the others will be there to answer the questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Question time - one and a half minutes. The first question is asked by Mrs Beata Mazurek. [[Two minutes was there.]] Two minutes? Okay, make it two minutes. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to ask a question about youth unemployment, because it is one of the main problems facing Poland for years. Although the situation of young people is improving, many of them cannot find a job, which results in difficult decisions on labour migration and leaving our country. It should be borne in mind that the situation of young people in Poland is conditioned by many factors, inter alia. with demography, level of economic development, access to education, but also with facilitation in reconciling work and family life or access to preferential housing loans. However, the most important factor in deciding to stay in the country is access to employment, but also fair pay. So my question is: What actions is the government going to take, to give young Poles access to work and decent wages? What action will he take to prevent them from going abroad after proverbial bread? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u106	Thank you. And Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unemployment remained in the downward trend in 2016, which was successful in 2014. It helped the economy and labour market reforms in 2014. You are proud of falling unemployment, lowering youth unemployment, which is the result, among others. a programme prepared and adopted at the end of the Citizen Platform and PSL's term of office. During the campaign, you announced a great reform of the National Employment Programme. We ask the question: Where is this program? It is worth presenting its assumptions and timetable. Why is there nothing after 12 months? You don't have any new ideas, you don't have new solutions, and the program you've prepared turned out to be, to put it mildly, a failure. A clear omission of the Ministry is the lack of an idea to continue and correct labour market reforms. The resort not only did not announce any specific change or idea, but also by announcing changes without any concrete details introduces chaos and expansion in the work offices, as well as a lack of motivation to take action in favour of the labour market. We're waiting for the fireworks of ideas. I'm afraid the only program is the 500+ program, the easiest program possible: to distribute 500 PLN each, and that's not necessarily fair. And so far, 500+ is 150,000. people, especially women who have left work. Reason? Family responsibilities related to running the house. If such deactivation is permanent, permanent, it will deprive them of the right to a reasonable pension. We all know that returning to the labour market after a long break is not easy. Does the Ministry provide for the programme to be modified to encourage work rather than to leave it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, we are seeing worrying signals about the weakening of economic dynamics and the holding back of investment, which, unfortunately, together with the weak use of structural funds, can mean a deterioration in the labour market. What has been successfully rebuilt after the crisis, unfortunately, could be lost, maybe not yet in the perspective of 2017, but in the years to come. What country...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u108	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u109	What kind of solutions do you foresee so that this does not happen in order to prevent this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u110	And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u111	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you spoke so nicely about the fact that unemployment is falling and is getting lower. I wanted to ask if the State Labour Inspection in Katowice and other services that control entrepreneurs are doing some work to eliminate these jobs so that unemployment does not fall too fast. I ask, because it turns out that, as a result of the checks carried out by the State Labour Inspection, all kinds of recommendations are made regarding the reconstruction of facilities, which amount to multi-million-dollar amounts. Perhaps it wouldn't be any wonder if the previous checks of the State Labour Inspection didn't require this kind of reconstruction costing many million zlotys. Of course, it is not difficult to imagine that jobs are being decommissioned as a result of such indications, because it is not worthwhile for businesses to make such costly adjustments. Unfortunately, it pushes people out of the labour market, causing unemployment to fall slower. I would like to ask: Is that what this is all about, among other things, checks. PIP, but other services, too, is he in charge? Another thing I would like to say, the Minister mentioned that the priority of the government is to activate the long-term unemployed. I'm the one who doesn't understand. On the one hand, you are introducing 500+ social programmes that are absolutely, beyond any doubt, pushing people out of the labour market, removing jobs, harassing entrepreneurs, causing long-term unemployment and then allocating funds to activate the long-term unemployed. What's the point? Where's the logic? It seems, however, that it would be better to ensure that these jobs are not decommissioned so that entrepreneurs are not oppressed by these hundreds of controls so that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Later, it was not necessary to spend state funds to activate people on the labour market. I wanted to ask you one more thing, Minister. Are you working on systemic changes in the functioning of labour offices, because what the labour offices are offering today is absolutely ineffective? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u112	Thank you, sir. And Mr John Boat, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What you are trying to boast about, in the formulation of this content of current information, and in your style to take the work of others, is nothing unusual and I am not surprised, because Eurostat data shows that most people in history and employment are now working throughout the European Union. But there is a fact that the government should be concerned, and the current information about it should rather be, I think. Well, in the same Eurostat surveys there are very worrying data. In the third quarter, employment on the Vistula River, in Poland, increased compared to the previous year by barely 0.2%. This is only the fifth result since the end of the European Union. At the same time, it is worth saying that in Spain employment increased by 2.8 in Hungary - 2.4 in Germany - by 0.9. When we compare the third quarter to the second quarter, it's bad too, the result is 0.1%. Yes, my fellow Member. The European Union average is twice as high. Other data: Employment growth, the fourth quarter of 2015 to the same quarter of 2014 is as high as 1.9%. High Seym! This is the result, the result of a strong economic slowdown. We've been growing GDP the slowest in three years... [[It's one of the highest in Europe.]] ...only 2.5% And the fourth quarter will be even weaker. And in investments, a fall, like during the recession. Industrial production is decreasing dramatically. In October, it decreased by 1.3% compared to October 2015. This should be an object of concern and concern. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government's information, and that's what I want to ask you. Does the government intend to provide information on the prevention of bad, bad trends in the economy that lead to unemployment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u114	Mr Waldemar Andzel, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u115	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After difficult times it is thanks to the hard work of the current government that the labour market in Poland is experiencing real growth. The unemployment rate in Poland is the lowest in 25 years, currently at 8.2. Our country is in the top European countries with the lowest unemployment, we are in seventh place. In order to improve the standard of life of Poles, Law and Justice introduces new regulations. The first is the minimum hourly rate for persons working on certain contract orders and for the provision of services. The introduced amount of PLN 13 gross will be valued annually. The minimum remuneration in 2017 will be PLN 2000 gross, which gives us an amount of PLN 150 higher than in the current year. It is also worth mentioning the liquidation of the so-called syndrome. the first day's pay, thus reducing the unfair practices of employers. The fact that these solutions are positively assessed is not surprising at all. I have questions for the Minister. What new regulations does the Ministry intend to introduce to further improve the situation of working Poles? Are there plans to support employers who create new jobs? Will the Ministry encourage Polish companies to introduce organisational innovations related to human resources management? And in relation to this statistics, I don't know where the opposition pulled it from, it's this 2.5% increase. GDP is one of the highest in Europe and we can be proud of it, thanks to the actions of law and justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u116	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u117	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I just don't understand the optimism of the government, the optimism of the news. Congratulations on your well-being, because today, ladies and gentlemen, in Silesia it is not funny, especially today. And it hasn't been good all year, ladies and gentlemen. In April, the government closed down Anna's mine, eliminating 1300 jobs. [[Everyone will have a job, sir.]] Since October 1600 jobs have been lost at the Jas-Mos mine. There are 1,400 jobs lost on the Makoszowy mine. The Krupinski mine is decommissioned by more than 2 000. jobs. At the Silesia mine, i.e. the Silesian Movement, another 1.5 thousand are eliminated. jobs. The Rydult Mine is thousands more jobs. Jobs are being permanently decommissioned. It is true, or to a large extent true, that some of those who work today will find jobs, but permanent job losses are being eliminated. Minister, you come from Silesian Voivodeship, on your shoulders - a special responsibility. And I wanted to ask the Minister: What has the government prepared? What possible new jobs will appear in Silesia? What have you prepared, what programmes and who will be covered? I would also like to add, to say this: Ladies and gentlemen, every closed place in Silesia, in mining directly, is from 4 to 6 places in the surroundings. You're decommissioning permanent jobs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's the Platform that's been shutting down jobs.]] Minister, one more thing. Your resort was also involved in the preparation of a bill on coal equivalent for pensioners. I wanted to ask you: At what stage is this bill? Will you pay these mining pensioners the equivalent from 1 January 2017? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u118	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u119	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The protected labour market, employment of people with disabilities has suffered a collapse in Poland in recent years. The number of sheltered workplaces has decreased and employment in the protected labour market has fallen significantly. This was the result of a policy of the previous government which reduced the financial preferences for sheltered jobs, and too high requirements were imposed on them, in terms of conditions, which increased their costs, reduced their benefits, reduced their profits, competitiveness and interest in them. What government and department of work are they going to take action to stop these negative tendencies that we inherited from the previous government? Next line. A strategy implemented with great determination by the current government to stimulate innovation in the economy beyond obvious economic benefits such as new products, cheaper goods, better wages for highly qualified people will result, as other countries' experience and international research have shown, also dangerous trends, i.e. demand for unskilled workers will be reduced. Of course, the differences in income are quite large, which is why it deepens inequalities between skilled and unskilled labour, but also deepens the differences between regions, because in the weakest regions, that is where the unskilled workforce is mostly located, so there will be job losses. As a result of our policies so far, we have a situation that among the 20 poorest regions of the European Union, as many as 5 are regions located in Poland. Therefore, I have a question: Does the government see these issues as if ahead of it and whether it intends to take action, such as: how much more taxation of profits and less work or others? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, if you'll excuse me, I have a brief question: Does the government actually confirm the data that came down here today that, as a result of the 500+ programme, many thousands of women have quit their jobs? Is there really such a deactivation? Because from my knowledge, it is not that such effects are only marginal. What is wrong with a woman giving up low-paid work and taking care of her family, taking care of her children, raising her children well?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u120	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u121	Is it really as critical as you are? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u122	The question is yes. So I would like to ask you to ask Thomas Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The decline in unemployment is a process resulting from the effects of 8 years of the previous government. The National Employment Action Plan 2015-2017 provided for a fall in unemployment below 10% And it became a fact. 85% companies provide for implementation, stabilisation of employment, but at the moment when economic development takes place. Meanwhile, the optimism of small and medium-sized companies is decreasing decisively at the moment. According to the opinion of the Rzeczpospolita, only a few percent will be allocated from research to development. The increase in the minimum wage, with which I generally agree, should be accompanied by a reduction in the tax burden, as shown by the Work Portal. pl, according to 27% surveyed increases in this wage can contribute to an increase in trash contracts and 17% believes that this increase will result in part-time work. Therefore, what mechanisms will affect the reduction of the black market? Because I'm afraid there might be a transition to the black market. Minister! The Prime Minister invites you to return from the UK. What's the welcome program? Will those who return be left to themselves? They don't have contacts, they don't know the labour market. These trends, for private companies, are dwindling optimism, as I said. What is very important is that they are permanently unemployed. According to the amendment to the Act we made in 2015, there are three categories: up to 30 years, over 50 years and those returning from maternity leave. Should not another category of women and persons be introduced, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will return to the labour market after using the 500+ programme? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u124	Thank you. Mr Marek Polak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u125	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This year is marked by dynamic annual growth in employment, record-breaking low unemployment and high labour demand, which is very satisfactory. We should only hope - as well as the New Year's wish - that this long-awaited and positive trend will persist. However, following this positive phenomenon, wage growth has not reached the expected level, and some analysts believe that this could be caused by the influx of workers from Ukraine and the decline in investment in the economy. I would like to ask the Minister whether, in the opinion of the Ministry, the trend in employment growth will remain at the current level next year and whether the growing shortage of workers in the Polish economy will foster an increase in wage pressure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u126	Thank you. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to various studies by labour market institutions, but also direct intervention by employers, including those addressed to my parliamentary office, more than 50% companies have problems recruiting suitable, well qualified, with good skills of employees. In the second quarter of 2016, the number of offers increased by 75% compared to 2015. There are many reasons for this and many of them have already been mentioned here before me. On the other hand, I would like to focus on the economic development of the country and on the associated expectations of the labour market. As GUS reported, we already had 360 thousand in the first quarter of this year. job vacancies in the economy, i.e. 30% more than in the previous quarter. The economy suffers not only from lack of professionals, but also from lack of hands to work. Without the possibility of increasing employment, economic growth will not be possible. I want to believe that the Minister understands well the link between GDP growth and the number of employees. The greater employment, the greater production and the greater GDP growth. These are connected vessels, and there are more and more professions in the labour market that lack specialists. From a macroeconomic point of view, the record decrease in investment this year has significantly affected unemployment. Less new capital reduces unemployment, and we want the economy to grow and become more innovative. Low unemployment will not increase the innovation of Polish companies. That is why I ask the Minister: Since you knew in the first quarter what trends were in the market, what exactly was done, what steps have been taken, what tools have you used, using the resources of the budget and the Polish and the EU, to counter these negative trends? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u128	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Machalek. [[Michael, Iwona Michael.]] Excuse me, Mrs Michalek, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u129	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poles did not benefit equally from economic growth. That financial cake wasn't shared fairly. Some received much, more than measure, others little, even though they worked very hard. The increase in the minimum hourly rate was very, very expected by society, because indeed, as the Minister said at the outset, there were such cases that people worked for pennies or really too little. I would like to ask who is affected by the minimum hourly rate - I get a lot of such questions - whether it is only for business people, whether it is for public administration as well. I would also like to ask if there are any simulations on what the economic impact is expected of an increase in the minimum hourly rate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u130	Thank you. And I ask that Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's a good time. Unemployment has been falling steadily since 2014, and this also applies to a group of women, but we also know that there are rules that, according to the Labour Code, protect people in the labour market. An employee who does not have more than 4 years to reach retirement age does not have to fear that his employer will terminate his employment contract, even if it is only a temporary contract, or will change his working conditions and wages. This concerns the time for the employee to reach the retirement age. It is known that older year's employees are always having trouble getting a new job, finding a new job, and it is known that when the economy collapses, unemployment increases. And hence my questions to the Minister. Minister, you have passed a law that reduces the retirement age for women up to 60 years old, for men up to 65 years old, so the difference is not so dramatic. Women over the age of 60 can retire. You say you give women a choice, but there's a problem: a woman will be protected on the labour market until she's 60, nothing more than that. It will reach 60 years and the employer, because there is no longer a rule of the Labour Code that protects a woman, will say: I have to fire workers now, because the economy is collapsing, there are worse conditions. And who's gonna be fired first? The woman who's already retired. Short work, lower wages, and what is the effect? Much lower pensions and women pushed out of the labour market. That's how this reduced retirement age bill is gonna work. I wanted to ask you one more thing, Minister. For women in places like Opoczno, Rawa Mazowiecka, Radomsko and Piotrków this work is much less. What actions [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the government intend to start with the first symptoms of a collapsing economy in order to promote and protect women's jobs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u132	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing the actions of the Government of Law and Justice to improve the situation on the labour market. Note that the situation in the labour market is the best in the history of the Third Republic of Poland, unemployment is the lowest since the beginning of the transformation. This situation is not an accident or a fall from the sky. The situation on the labour market certainly has an external impact, but without government activity we would not have the situation we have. This government works for Poles. But it is very important to keep this trend. Here we see clear government action to maintain this trend. These are measures to support employers who will thus develop and increase employment. These activities are a package of 100 changes for companies, which is already largely implemented, and within this package they include: ordering controls, full accounting for companies with revenues of more than EUR 2 million, easing the requirements for building permits and many others. In preparation there is a constitution for business, and it includes the principle of economic freedom, legal certainty, the principle of the presumption of honesty of the entrepreneur, the principle of a friendly interpretation of the rules, the principle of proportionality, the office cannot impose unjustified obligations on the entrepreneur, the elimination of many documentary obligations, reliefs for start-ups and many others. Changes in education, in particular on vocational education, which in a slightly longer perspective, but still will also improve the situation on the labour market. Here we should mention: vocational training based on the real needs of the economy, the financing system for professional schools will be linked to the expectations of the labour market, the inclusion of real employers in the education and examination process, a two-stage professional school with appropriate examinations, obtained certificates confirming qualifications. And a question. Will this government action improve the labour market situation? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u134	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski - now, something else is displayed here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u135	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mrs Mazurek and the Minister presented optimistic information on the government's efforts to improve the situation on the labour market, but it can be said from the example of Silesia that the situation is very different. During the election campaign in front of the Brzeszcze mine, Prime Minister Szydło announced that after the takeover of power by the Law and Justice of the place of work in mining not only will they not be liquidated but will be created new. In her exposé from the Parliamentary Speaker, the Prime Minister also announced that energy will be one of the main recipients of the great resources that the government will devote to development. Ladies and gentlemen! According to data from the Industrial Development Agency from December 2015 to August 2016, 5 000 were wound up. jobs in mining. The restructuring of employment will be followed by further mines and companies, among others. Katowice Holding Coal, which is said to be of 13 thousand. 5 000 employees should be reduced. jobs. In March this year, the management board of Tauron Polska Energia adopted a programme to improve efficiency for 2016 and 2018 which is expected to bring in all companies of the group of PLN 1300 million savings, including savings within the framework of... or initiatives consisting of among others. for the restructuring of employment. The largest is planned in the distribution area - 390 million, in the manufacturing area - 367 million and in the mining area - 255 million. My question is this, Minister. How many new jobs have been created in mining and energy since last year until now, and what are the plans of the government to replace these jobs and create new jobs? And another question. Yesterday, the High House voted for the entry into force of the Law of Education by the votes of the Members of Law and Justice. What proposals for teachers who will be exempted from middle school, employees [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does junior high have a government of law and justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u136	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u137	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Intellectually disabled people belong to the category of people with a very disadvantaged labour market. This is due to a very high level of unemployment and the belief that such people are not fully valuable workers, with low qualifications, reduced physical, mental, mental fitness and low performance. This makes intellectually disabled people a group requiring special care and care in the field of career guidance, placement and employment. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, what actions have been taken and are being taken towards the professional activation of persons with intellectual disabilities? And second question: Does the Ministry plan campaigns to promote assisted employment, which is the right concept for the professional activation of persons with intellectual disabilities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u138	Mr Antoni Mężydło. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mrs Beata Mazurek, when presenting a query on current information, took care that the workers did not work in the grey area, while the Minister, speaking of pathology in the labour market, did not notice such pathology as the grey employment area. I am speaking here on behalf of large groups of employees of establishments located in areas where there used to be high unemployment. Currently, there are plants that employ mainly less skilled workers for minimum wage. These are mostly people with large families who receive family benefits, housing allowances and other social benefits. Some of them, following the increase in the minimum wage, which the Minister here also commended in response to Mrs Beata Mazurek's request, will exceed the income thresholds which entitle them to receive these benefits. They are very concerned about this because total family income may decrease as a result of this increase. However, they are rational people and will therefore make such decisions to keep this family income as much as possible maximize so as not to lose as a result of this increase. They expect that, together with the increase in the minimum wage, income criteria for social benefits will also be raised so that the minimum increase is neutral with regard to the benefits they receive. In normal economies, you make sure that your job... The basic principle is that social assistance should be for the workers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and looking for a job, so I ask the Minister whether the government, in view of the increase in the minimum wage from 1 January 2017, provides for an increase in the income thresholds for family allowance, housing allowance and other social benefits. I'd like you to answer that question today because I've also spoken with the interpellation, but I'm probably not gonna see it coming. It was an intervention of Members in the parliamentary service, so that I very much expect it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u140	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Wojciech Skurkiewicz. There's no envoy. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the situation of resident doctors who work above working hours for modest wages. Is the allowance of 2,000. gross zloty for a doctor after college is to keep this man at work consisting in saving human health and life? There is already a great fear that young doctors will simply go abroad... [[It's been that way before.]] ...and in a few years, we'll be out of treatment. We can't let that happen. One of the vice-ministers of health recently said that the wages of young doctors will not increase at least by 2019 and will remain at around 70% national average. Let me remind you that in 2006 the Minister of Health in the PiS government at that time said that this pay should be two national averages. President Kaczyński also announced in 2013 at the election rallies that doctors should be properly rewarded. What happened to those promises? Is the Minister going to change this state of affairs? What is the government doing in order to ensure an increase in salaries for health care, i.e. for resident doctors, specialists, nurses, service workers who work hard? After all, the health of Poles is the most important. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u142	Mrs Catherine Czochar. There is no Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u143	Of course, I am addressing the ruling party. You have inherited success in the labour market, a positive trend that you are now trying to catch. You're offering us a performance here today that we could start with the words "bub-dub," "bub-dub." No, ladies and gentlemen, narration from the position: this was said by me, Jarzębek Wacław, coach of the second grade, will not pass. There are real problems in the labour market, genuinely real. Talking about the fact that the 500+ programme has no impact on the labour market, on the inactivation of women, is a lie, is a omission of the truth. Talking about the fact that today the Polish labour market without a million workers from Ukraine will not be able to manage, is missing the truth, not seeing the complexity of the labour market. You do not see that maneuvers around a minimum wage of 2,000. zł will always be won by these employees. In addition, the 500+ programme, except for the 150 thousand. women registered in the BAEL system, who came out of the labour market, launched claims, deactivating mechanisms. An example, and you will not deny it, more than PLN 1 billion has been paid for benefits in the social assistance system. That's a tough fact. And now we have to think about how, in this weave of situations that you have created, we have to make it possible for employers, who are now burdened with manoeuvres around VAT, those regulations that are about to hinder gray employment, hire people and pay them honestly when, for example, they have to. measure with fluctuations in labour demand, which is a typical situation in rural areas. Once a job is, once a job is gone, seasonality is decisive here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask for honest answers and fair perception of problems, not for a propaganda performance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u144	Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, you have inherited many pathological mechanisms in the labour market institutions from the predecessors of the Civic Platform. [[What?]] One such pathological mechanism is the possibility of commissioning activation activities to employment agencies based on Article. 66d Act on the Promotion of Employment and Employment Market Institutions. [[It's not pathology. It's a recipe.]] The selection of the employment agency has been assigned the competence of the marshal. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It seems that the activation activities are covered by I and II profiles, while no less than 200 unemployed agencies are targeted. Looks like the employment agency's getting paid. In 2015, it was 12 thousand. gross zloty for the professional activation of such unemployed, except that this activation is to last 14 days, and in the case of employment offices - not less than 30 days. And it looks like 200 people times 12,000. then we have PLN 2.4 million, which in a given district can be pumped into such a work agency. On the other hand, a medium-sized labour office, which has registered around 2.5 thousand. The unemployed, under the Labour Fund, receive from the state budget between 2.5 million and 2.7 million for the activation of this unemployment group. According to statistics, 8,000 are devoted to the activation of one unemployed labour office. zł. The question is whether it is appropriate to maintain such mechanisms. As far as I know, there are only a few entities in the country that have specialized in this type of activation. There are other things. Unemployed e.g. in the second profile, which are sent to the employment agency, cannot be activated at that time by the county labour office. Of course, this is different in the third profile with those long-term unemployed. District labour offices continue to bear the costs of health insurance for persons addressed to the labour agency. I've already talked about this efficiency, at the employment office for at least 30 days, at work agencies for 14 days. These are pathological mechanisms that serve in my opinion to pump out money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the state budget to the employment agency, to private entities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u146	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u147	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Government activities of the Civic Platform and PSL for micro-enterprises resulted in an increase in the number of registered companies and a genuine fall in unemployment. Polish entrepreneurs got a green light in the form of simplifying procedures related to registration of their companies. We have also led to the remission of wrongly charged contributions and interest towards the Social Security Office, which I so much sought in the previous term of office of the Sejm with colleagues from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, headed by Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka. Unfortunately, micro-enterprises that form the core of the Polish economy begin to flee from Poland. The current situation, which is characterised by temporaryity, uncertainty, the lack of stable tax legislation, chaos and, above all, the slowdown of the Polish economy, causes the growth rate of the number of workers in the private sector to fall to 0.1%. year to year compared to 2% in the first half of this year. compared to 2.6% for the whole of 2015 I've been watching for over a year, among others. in its constituency disturbing behaviours, namely many entrepreneurs move their companies or wonder about their registration outside Poland. The most popular destinations are, of course, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek already in May this year during the European Economic Congress in Katowice signalled the problem of moving our home companies abroad. Minister, you are aware of this trend in our economy. Despite this, you have ignored this fact during the famous speech of the summarizing action of the PiS government for the last year. What, then, is the Ministry planning to do to stop thousands of micro-entrepreneurs from fleeing our country? After all, they are building our Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u148	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Members of the Platform are thundering today from the Parliament's platform that there are real, serious problems in the labour market. [[Well, they are.]] If, after 8 years of governance, Platforms and PSL have such serious problems, what have you been doing for 8 years that you left us in the labour market such a dramatic situation? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[After a year of running the PiS.]] Minister, my question is to replace permanent employment with temporary employment. Work today is one of the most important values, and permanent employment is the foundation of financial stability for the family. Meanwhile, employers replace permanent employment with temporary employment. Temporary work is one of the forms of flexible employment. However, on the market it is abused by employers as a cheaper form of employment than a traditional permanent employment contract. As an example, in 2014 the number of temporary workers increased by as much as 25% in Poland. My question, Minister: What legal solutions does the government propose to prevent permanent employment from being replaced by temporary employment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u150	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Maria Zuba a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The green island is the result of Jarosław Kaczyński's reign. Who said that, ladies and gentlemen? I can assure you that this was not said by a law and justice officer. This was said by the man of the Civic Platform Michał Boni. When these assurances that there is prosperity in our country did not work, then they offered to society under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL advertising with a plumber who is respected and captured in the West. It caused a wave of young people's departures. [[No, it's not. It's a lie.]] Unfortunately, they collided with a real problem there, but they're second-class employees. That's not enough, they were looking for a way out of what? In trash deals. This was promoted by the Euro MP of the Civic Platform, currently MEP of the Civic Platform... [[Liar.]] ...who offered trash contracts to Poles, and himself went on a European diet to the European Union. [[President Duda was also on a European diet.]] [[Woman, don't argue.]] Deal, deal... We know who we are talking about, Member. Trash contracts are primarily a humiliation for workers, but at the same time unfair, unfair competition for employers. Not much, what the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL gave us - self-employment. What are the terms and conditions, we know, because these people are coming to do it, and they're crying in our offices. We are in Europe the country that has the highest self-employment rate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's how he implemented his policy against unemployment... [[And what's changed in the last year?]] ...government of the Civic Platform and PSL. Minister, tell me what actions... [[We'll ask for the last year's data.]] ...will take the rule of law and justice on people who are long-term unemployed, about whom the cost of getting out of unemployment is the greatest... [[What did he do for a year?]] ...and which we received in succession after the Civic Platform and the PSL. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Very nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u152	Thank you. I very much ask Mrs Skowronska not to be a minister, because the questions are addressed to the Minister, and you are trying to answer practically every question, because I do not think you want to interfere consciously... [[Answer me.]] ...to his friends and colleagues. [[But of course not, but nothing's been done in the last year. It's been a year.]] So, Commissioner, I would ask you very much to restrain unnecessary emotions. And I ask you to ask Anna April. [[Blood's coming down.]] And I hope she can ask a question in peace this time, and you won't mind. [[I'm holding back, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.]] Thank you, too. Goodbye. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Temporary work is becoming increasingly popular among employers in Poland because they believe that such a form of work is more flexible and less financially burdensome for them. As a result, the number of temporary employment agencies and entrepreneurs using their services is constantly increasing. At the same time, information on the abuse of this form of employment and the non-compliance with workers' rights is increasingly emerging. This problem concerns at least 0.5 million people employed through them. Often these are women over the age of 50, whose situation on the labour market has always been and is not easy. According to the State Labour Inspection, people who are abused by opportunities for work, who benefit from the employment agency, are often kept in the so-called employment agency for many years. temporary, unable to count on professional and life stability. The whole system is designed so that people from the bottom of the pyramid work as little as possible for themselves and as much as possible for agencies and employers. The Agency shall charge an appropriate fee for each contract. I have a question: What measures does the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy intend to take in order to address the irregularities in the temporary labour market? I would like to stress that very often contracts that are concluded with employees are practically a cyrograph, from which such an employee cannot get out. There are often introduced psychic fines, e.g. for messy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which, of course, is conducive to abuse. So, once again, I ask you to answer the question of how the Minister wishes to counter it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u154	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u155	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I'm in constant contact with the work offices in my constituency. I receive cyclically information on employment, which shows that the number of jobs is increasing gradually. I ask the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy to provide me with information on the planned implementation in 2017 of measures to support employers and employees, on financing the costs of lifelong learning from the National Training Fund and on the amount planned to finance the activities of the National Training Fund and on the priorities for spending funds from the National Training Fund in 2017. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u156	Thank you. And Mrs Ursula Rusecka, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question will concern the 50-year-old group and more. In Poland, people aged 50 and over are one of the groups considered to be in a particularly difficult situation in the labour market. Low employment and low employment rates remain among these people. In the second quarter of this year. the employment rate of persons aged 50 and over was lower than in the European Union and was 33.8% versus 37.8% in the European Union. The employment rate of people aged 50+ was also lower and was 32.2% versus 35.4% in the European Union. The proportion of unemployed persons over 50 years of age in the total number of registered persons is also increasing. At the end of October Ub. r. was 27.4% , on the other hand, in October this year. It was 27.8%. The government Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy are taking action to improve these indicators among older age groups. My question is: Are these actions sufficient, and do they produce the expected results? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u158	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As you know, success has many fathers, failure is an orphan. I have the impression that Members of the Civic Platform support this principle here. Because where there are really achievements in the fight against unemployment, and the achievements by the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, they say that this is the result of their actions, while where you can see huge problems resulting from these 8-year omissions, they pretend that they are not affected, they try to blame the government of Law and Justice. However, the fact is that unemployment is falling, there are more and more job vacancies and we are slowly drawing attention to the fact that the employer's market will turn into an employee market. This is a very positive trend for Poles, because I believe that we will see a moment when an employee outraged by his boss will no longer hear that if he doesn't like it, he can take off, get out, because there are 10 people waiting for him to replace him. However, it must be acknowledged that by now the road is still far away and there are certainly groups that need to be supported in the field of professional activation. These groups include persons with defined dysfunctions, persons with disabilities. I would like to ask: what measures the Ministry intends to take to promote the professional activation of persons with disabilities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] especially people with visual dysfunction so that they can return to the labour market and improve their situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u160	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u161	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question about the labour market in places where mining plants in Silesia cease production. At the moment, there is a protest of five miners in the Makoshov mine at the moment, and I would like to hear a clear message from the government regarding the problem of job change. This was a violation on the part of the Civic Platform, which talked about job losses. This is unfounded because these jobs will be transferred. The Krupiński mine was mentioned here, 2200 people, 170 people are located in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa mine, 1360 people in Makoszowy mine have a job offer in the Polish Mining Group. And it's about these jobs and the miners who work there, I'm calm. But I would like to know the concept of government, what about the surroundings of the hill. Each job in mining generates about four or five jobs around mining. How will these white spots, where mining plants unfortunately end production for some reason, be managed in the future? And that is the question at the moment, at the moment, because it is a very burning problem in Silesia, causing social unrest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u162	Thank you, sir. That concludes the questioning. I would like the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed. You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Mr. Marshal, how much time do I have?]] Ten minutes. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: 10 - this is impossible...]] We can do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for all your questions. There are a lot of questions. I'll try to answer a little block-by-block because some of the questions were about similar problems. First reflection. The worst thing for a debate is to come up with a preconceived thesis that everything is wrong. If this is the way it comes to the debate, it is difficult to discuss with the people who come here - I am talking about Members, not all Members, from the opposition. 'Cause if we're giving low unemployment figures, we're bragging. So, what are we supposed to do if we give up-to-date data on unemployment? We're supposed to say it's bad, what's the lowest unemployment rate in 25 years? Some kind of schizophrenia complete. But we already need to get used to the fact that, in any situation, even with regard to the labour market, we need to bring this element of political struggle. And it is, you can say, a post-political one, because the labour market issue, workers' rights affect all of us. And that's the first general remark. I've divided these questions into a few groups of questions. I will also try to answer specific questions. First of all, on issues related to support for young people. Here, too, statistics are definitely improving. We've got 15,6% right now. people up to the age of 24 who are in unemployment statistics. There is more than 18% in the European Union. This trend is decreasing. Employment rates and employment rates are also increasing there. This shows that the direction we have chosen, i.e. support for young people, whether it is a reduction of up to 4 months of time when the employment office is obliged to present an offer or an exemption from the employer's minimum wage in the first year of work for young people up to 30 years of age, or a training voucher or an internship voucher - all this makes the situation of young people improve. This does not mean that there is no problem that, when it comes to these people, we do not still need to direct this policy to young people. One of these issues that we are talking about is also the issue of wages and minimum wages. There have been numerous mention of the minimum wage. Well, if we want to talk about a decent reward, it's a minimum if we're talking about a minimum wage, but also in the context of stopping young people who are leaving our country. If there is a big pay gap, this situation is detrimental to us. Today, most of you have spoken of this here. We are dealing with a situation where there is a high demand for the labour market for workers. This must also be due to the fact that the increase in wages is also greater - 2 000. zł. There's no danger today that this issue is excessive. In our strategy, which we have adopted, which the social side is also looking for, I am talking about trade unions, we are going to have a minimum wage of 50%. This is also due to EU law. We're at 47%. This is a good time. I will respond to Mr Husband on the criteria for income. Income criteria are changing on 1 November. At the moment, there is not yet a government decision whether this criterion will be increased, but I will remind you that recently this criterion has already been increased. This case is before the decision, which is why there is no answer. But you have asked for this in your interpretions, sir, so this answer will be provided. There has often been a thread on issues related to the implementation of the 500+ programme. If you already have all the data indicating that 500+ is deactivating women after a few months of implementation of the programme, then you are mistaken. No data confirms this - in fact, the opposite. The statistics I presented show that the labour market for women is continuing, [[Applause]] and one of the messengers, I think Mrs Masłowska spoke about it. She said that even if a woman who has several children stays at home with these children, she won't work for the lowest salary, it would be a better solution for this family than what is today. That's why there's no fear. The program's working. The program's fine. When it comes to complaining to some employers that they have to raise their salaries because women want to quit, let them raise their salaries. That's the right thing to do. No one in any data absolutely confirms this situation. The question of disabled people. The labour market situation of people with disabilities is difficult. She's getting better, but at an unsatisfactory rate, so to speak. Other changes still need to be made here. Here, too. We are making changes regarding the conditions for the settlement of social security contributions by disabled people, the number of establishments is increasing. This is the answer to Mrs Krynicka's question. Currently, over 4,000 employees work in 100 professional activation plants. persons with disabilities. In this direction, these changes, which will be undertaken both by the PFRON board and by the Ministry, are also continued. The Member asked about the matter of the State Labour Inspection. The State Labour Inspection is subject to the Sejm, not to the Ministry, but I can assure you - in my experience - that there is no situation so that labour inspectors especially want to close the plant. I don't know any such situation. There's got to be some kind of security situation. That is probably why, according to the regulations, the inspector made a recommendation to correct this situation. If this is a specific situation, please ask the Chief Labour Inspector to clarify the matter. But in my experience, that's not the situation. In general, when it comes to inspection of work, it was very pro-working. We want to change this trend, reverse it, so that workers' rights are more protected. In a fight the employer - the employee is always in a worse situation. On the other hand, it has been said many times that the State Labour Inspection has great possibilities of punishment. We have the lowest fines in the European Union as regards fines. In France, for example, the simplest offence is punished with a minimum of 2 000. Euros. These are the amounts that inspectors give there. But this PIP thing, like I said, it's not our thing. But in my experience, this case is clean. There have been many questions about issues related to temporary work. Indeed, as far as the agency for temporary employment is concerned, there is a big problem because in recent years it has been assumed that most of the temporary employment agencies have been employed. The agency itself and the temporary work itself is nothing wrong, but if it is abused, that is, the same person is constantly employed by the temporary employment agency, which means there is no permanent employment, that is pathology. We want to change that. The so-called permanent work. a round table with social partners to make changes. Among other things, we want to end the phenomenon that we are dealing with, the creation of fictitious temporary employment agencies that employ workers, do not pay wages, do not pay contributions. Therefore, the agency will be controlled by the marshal offices under which it is subject, whether the ZUS-owska contribution is deducted from the salaries of such employees. But we also want to make a change in the amendment of this law so that the person employed has a job guarantee, but it is also not used by other agencies and employed by the same employer for longer periods. This issue will be settled at least in the area where the agreement between the partners and the social partners has taken place. As regards issues related to Silesia - a very important subject, thank you very much, Mr President, for once again correcting the false information that Mr Gadowski gives, because it is simply not true - it is not that we are eliminating and people remain unemployed. For miners there are jobs in other companies. There is a question of mining leave - it also somehow solves this problem - and also through the voivodship labour office we have launched consultative points, which among others. they help those companies that operate around the mining industry, because that's where the biggest problem is. They're not included in these packages. They can be helped with instruments that we have already mentioned here today. It's about the labour fund. We've got the resources. If necessary, we'll run the labour fund reserve. But here the county labour offices and the provincial labour office are more capable of acting, because from there we need to know what we can run here. But it's continued here. I will repeat once again what Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski also said, that redundancies are not expected, all job offers will be presented. Support for entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This, of course, is a very important subject. The strategy for responsible development will be adopted or is already adopted, and next week it will be adopted by the government. And here are the activities of both development, investment, which Minister Morawiecki proposes, and there is also a constitution for business. We are making changes to the business environment laws that make it easier for entrepreneurs to function. This direction is also intended to help entrepreneurs to create jobs, but also to employ workers. The issue of employment irregularities. There was also a question about the minimum hourly rate. Of course, this minimum hourly rate applies to all entities, including local authorities, and institutions, and does not apply to natural persons who agree to perform activities for other institutions. Yes, we want to reduce those pathologies that concerned very low wages again, and I think that this amount of 13 PLN will definitely improve. The questions also concerned actions for the elderly. This is the second group, except for the young people who are most at risk. The indicators are also improving considerably here, but we also have programmes under the Act that concern older people. Only in 10 months, 70,000. people over the age of 50 have activated, i.e. 16% all activated persons. This is more than last year, but of course we still need to make different changes here so that we also have job offers for these people. And the pension law comes into force from 1 October next year. Then we can discuss how this will affect the labour market. One of the fellow Members here asked about the Brzeszcze mine. The Brzeszcz mine works, feeds, is fine, people have jobs. Thanks to you, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, this facility has been maintained and working. As far as issues relating to the employment of third-country nationals of Ukraine are concerned, we are currently working on the implementation of the Seasonal Directive, maintaining a system of statements, i.e. facilitating, inter alia. for Ukrainian citizens, in the case of short-term periods of employment. This issue will also be resolved on the forthcoming Councils, in the Council of Ministers, where there will be a decision on both the Seasonal Directive and issues related to declarations. I think I answered most of your questions here. As I said, I have divided these questions into different blocks to answer completely the issues that you have raised. And as I said at the beginning, it's hard to say here that if we have a low unemployment rate, we're gonna be sad. Unemployment is low, that is good news, but we are aware of the problems in the labour market, that unemployment is diverse, that we have a problem with long-term unemployed, on which we must devote far greater resources to their activation. And one last thing about making plans, making changes... Another thread that Mr Stawiarski was talking about - I wrote well - on employment agencies. We're actually looking at this instrument. We also need to make a change, because there was also quite a lot of pathology in this case, which shouldn't have happened. As far as the amendment of the Act on the Promotion of Labour Market Institutions is concerned, we are preparing, gathering information, we have a review of the 2-year law that has been amended. We also had, personally, several dozen meetings with representatives of labour offices, with entrepreneurs. We want to prepare new, comprehensive solutions, but we need time for that too. The information I've been collecting will allow us to work out the best possible solutions. In general, we want to simplify this law more, make it more flexible so that, at the level of labour offices, it is easier to use labour market instruments both for entrepreneurs and for those looking for jobs. I hope that next year we will have the opportunity to work in the Sejm on these plans for changes to the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u164	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. High Izbo! Before we proceed to the next point, I'd like a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 mins 21 hours 14 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of items 44 and 45 of the agenda: 44. Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government's draft law amending the Budget Act for 2016 (prints No 1129 and 1149). 45. Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016 (Prints No 1130 and 1150). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present both reports to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u165	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, to submit a report on the proceedings of the Committee on Public Finance held yesterday, 14 December 2016. The proceedings concerned a government draft law amending the Finance Act for 2016, print No 1129, and government draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016, print No 1130. In the case of the first draft law, one amendment was tabled which was supported by the committee. The committee therefore recommends that the High House adopt the bill. In the second draft law we dealt with two complex amendments. One of them received the support of the committee and the other was rejected. In this case, the committee also recommends that the High House adopt a draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u166	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Andrzej Costowniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u167	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! At first, I would like to make it clear that the Law and Justice Club will support draft laws. The draft law contained in print No 1130 gives de facto a recommendation and a mandate for the Minister of Finance to set up special provisions on expenditure blocked under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 points 2 and 3 of the Public Finance Act for specific special-purpose reserves. Three special provisions are foreseen in this case: one is for the purchase of cultural goods, including monuments, and rights to cultural goods of particular importance for the Polish state and cultural heritage, the other is intended to serve as a special grant for the Material Reserve Agency, and the third as a special grant for the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. In short, I would like to focus on the first reserve. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the creation of a reserve for a unique purchase, perhaps for a unique moment for Polish culture, because it concerns a reserve for culture, which is created for the purchase of the Czartoryski collections in Krakow. I will remind you that this is the largest, but also the most valuable collection of Polish cultural goods in private hands. On the committee we could hear that it's over 180,000. various types of items in the collection, including real estate, but also a very rare and very valuable collection of paintings, almost 600 paintings, exactly 593 paintings. Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing a situation in which the collection, which has been created for less than 200 years, can become the property of the Polish state and thus fill one of the provisions of the constitution of our country relating to care for Polish culture. This is a very important purchase. We discussed during the committee's deliberations on the amounts, on what is part of the individual collections of this collection. Today, it seems necessary to give the Minister of Culture this comfort of work, negotiations with the representatives of the Foundation, very hard to keep his fingers crossed for the completion of this transaction, which, I am convinced, will be a historical transaction for us. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission voted in favour of the adoption of both draft law. The Law and Justice Club also recommends voting in favour of legislative proposals in the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u168	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u169	Dear Marshal, Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We do not agree to the violation of the Constitution. We do not agree with the first step in eliminating parliamentary control over the government. We do not agree to the liquidation, as the government proposes, so that we do not know what public money is spent on. All these elements in this law are like the academic example of the PiS Taran: after the Court, after the courts and after other laws, where citizens' rights are removed, in this case, to a parliament elected by citizens. Why do we say this is the wrong solution? Because, despite the fact that the Law and Justice Club voted in favour of the extraordinary procedure in Parliament, this is not what is foreseen, in the original Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, you did so to the State. But it's outrageous to stand up for another thing. It's not only that it's supposed to be a mute seym that can't articulate its own and important to citizens, but nobody cares about it, the government doesn't care about it, it breaks the constitution. Why? Because he proposed that we agree blindly that some expenses will be blocked and some reserves, although named, will be created. It is not known how many blocked, how divided, it is not known whether important interests are preserved here. None of the most important interests, even those of the government, would allow Parliament to be informed against the constitution, according to constitutional principles. You had to find a way to inform us. I was bringing it in for covert mode. So once again, 15 days or 16 days before the end of the year, you're updating. We don't know how much blockage there will be. Yesterday it was said that it would be 700 million. One more thing was added: under the committee's work, irregularly bypassing the first reading, the amendment concerning the special grant for the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs - 300 million. Thus, no - even important - reason justifies this mode. And the other thing. You are saying and referring to the fact that the Minister of Culture is conducting talks and that this should be kept quiet. Sure, but you can never ignore Parliament. This is the rule of law. We're talking about collections that are private property, not in private hands, which are private property of whoever collected them. Even if you want to buy them, and because they are valuable collections, we know that you do not blame us for asking that we will interfere with the negotiations. That's not true, that's not true, because you have a duty to tell us to Parliament. In this case, too, it was not indicated, best, the Minister of National Defence, the Vice-President, said this: The Material Reserve Agency cannot tell you what it will spend money on. He can't. Will that be coal? We'd like to know, too? Why do we have to guess? After all, we have access to information, you can find a way and you don't have to put yourself under criticism in this room, you don't have to expose yourselves to media speculation, but it's worth talking about it. If you lack the sense that we do not understand this, believe that you are wrong about this. We really know what is important to you, for so many years we have tried to say and show, we have led to the fact that we are safe here and also with this growth. Because the country on the budget said it was expected to grow in 2017 and investment did not grow in 2016. The indicators are very low, and therefore, ministers, please tell the Prime Minister that this Parliament has not yet had such a scandalous project. We're gonna hold on, no matter what country it is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're trying to show the noble goals, and say it's supposed to be quiet, because these are important things. The most important thing is not to break the constitution, not to break the constitution, and here the constitution and the law of parliament have grossly broken the state. Thank you very much. The Civic Platform Club will be against this project - we have had a long debate on this subject and do not blame us for anything - for the scandalous manner, and so that this is not the first step in breaking the law on the budget and the control of Parliament over the government, we will oppose it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u170	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Wójcikowski. There's no envoy. Then it is Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is true, after the attack on the Constitutional Tribunal, it is necessary to say directly: the time has come for the attack on the Sejm and for the detention of the Sejm's control function over the activities of the Council of Ministers. Nothing else, as this is what she became in the course of her work, among others. in the committee amending the 2016 budget law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm's control function over the activities of the Council of Ministers, over expenditure made by individual ministers in individual ministries, is the function enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland within the framework of the three divisions of power. Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 clearly states: the role of the Sejm is to control the activities of the Council of Ministers. The role of the Sejm as a legislative authority is to control the Council of Ministers as an executive authority. It is written in the Constitution to make it a permanent element of our legal order, not so as to unexpectedly, under the motto: we want to develop funds for the purchase of works of art collected in the Czartoryski collections, make such important changes to public finances which will deprive the Committee of Public Finances of control over expenditure. What exactly does this amendment say? Of course, point 1 refers to the means to be made available to the Minister of Culture for the purchase of this collection. Neither the amount of these expenses nor the specific purpose shall be mentioned. As far as fate is concerned, it would be worthwhile for the committee to know that amount. Of course not all data has to go to public opinion. If this is an important transaction that is better placed to keep quiet, every session of the Sejm, including the committee, can be classified in order to provide the Members with detailed information, but unfortunately the government does not stop there. In the mouth. 2 additional appropriations were also provided for a similar special reserve of the Material Reserve Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not know the amount here either, we do not know what the money will go for, because the Minister asked me at the committee meeting said that it was secret and could not share such information with the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers to answer such questions. That's what the article said. 92. 2 the audit role of the Sejm, including the Committee on Public Finance, over government expenditure is recorded. Of course, we do not know the amount, and I will remind you that within the framework of, among others. expenditure of the Material Reserve Agency last year, at the end of the year, the government was buying coal, which is not in the interest of the Polish state, which is worse, it is not in line with the current rules imposed on us by the European Union, because it is simply illegal public aid and the European Union can also draw consequences against the Polish State. Also, the Council of Ministers did not stop because during the work in committee another amendment was made to introduce very similar mechanisms into the company restructuring fund. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, this fund is being funded by privatisation money. It turns out that privatisation was too small, that fund needs to be increased. In this case, I ask: Why was the money from privatisation in the middle of the year, from another fund, but also from the same purpose, i.e. the reprivatization fund, allocated to Polish Television? If there isn't enough money from a source called "Privacy" - because the government decided to stop privatisation completely - then it is all the more necessary to manage and not allocate money contrary to the basic functions and tasks of these funds. How do we know what the money's going to be spent on? In this case, although the amount has been determined - up to PLN 300 million. But I dare say that there are many more important things in Poland today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for which the 300 million PLN could be spent. Our consent to such actions is not and will not be. I therefore make appropriate amendments to restore the audit role of the Committee on Public Finance in respect of the expenditure of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u172	Thank you, Member. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska from the club of the Polish People's Party, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u173	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I will present my position on the committee's report on these laws concerning the revision of the budget of this year. They're 1129, 1149, 1130 and 1150. I would like to remind you that both projects concern the amendment of the law, which provides for the possibility of allocating funds which will be blocked as savings in advance. In the first version, the government proposed the creation of two special-purpose reserves, i.e. reserves for the purchase of cultural goods and the second reserve, for the Material Reserve Agency, for the execution of strategic tasks. Both the first reading of these projects and the discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance have caused a lot of controversy, mainly due to the poor legislative process, the process of proceding these projects. This style of instant lawmaking - in fact, it can be said, simply imposing law - is extremely reprehensible. I've told you this before, but I'll say it again. The projects appeared in the Sejm in late evening on December 12th, the first reading in the plenary room was already on December 13th, and yesterday, on December 14th, there was a committee meeting. It's like we're in a situation of some huge crisis, like we've been hit by a cataclysm and we need to debate quickly. Next to that rapid pace, as if it weren't enough, we can't find out anything. What's blocked? What are supposed to be the savings, what titles, how much? We have also not learned what specific objectives will be met. It was only yesterday's committee meeting that provided an approximation of the information on the blocking and use of funds in the field of cultural goods. Unfortunately, we still don't know anything about the allocation of funds to the Material Reserve Agency. This has not been explained, and it has been found to be classified information. At yesterday's meeting, on the other hand, there was an amendment which introduces a new objective of transferring blocked funds. This third objective is a special grant for the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs for the implementation of the statutory tasks of the Fund of up to PLN 300 million. In the explanatory memorandum, the applicant states that due to the low privatisation revenues that the fund provides, it is necessary to provide additional support, important for the protection of the fundamental interests of Poland's security, as well as the economic interest of the State. In general, I'd say we have no objections. as to the very nature of the use of resources, let us call it, from savings, and the purpose of their use for the necessary, real goals. I've already said it, it shows some flexibility, the operationality of the Minister of Finance. Nor do we at this point have reservations about the substantive explanations - very general but sufficient - regarding the use of funds by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. However, after the latter amendment, it is assumed that the government could not have done so earlier, in the regular procedure, because it did not know - and I think it still does not know - what budgetary needs are still in 2016. It's a little psychic. As far as the vote on these projects is concerned, I would like to inform you that we will make a decision, to be honest, once we have settled matters that are still covered by secrecy, they are secret knowledge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u174	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarnia Circle presented its views on the projects in question during the previous reading. It remains unchanged. However, I wanted to share the sad reflection that came to me during the debate on the allocation of funds for the acquisition of national cultural goods. Poland, like no other country, was deprived of treasures of its own and European culture during World War II. Probably few of those present in this room remember that when the Royal Castle was rebuilt with great difficulty, it was not something to equip it with, because our national cultural goods were lost in German and Soviet warehouses as property stolen during World War II. It is with regret that I listen to the words in this room that call into question the purpose of caring for our national treasures. [[No, it wasn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u176	Member, again?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u177	A special grant for the Agency for Material Reserves to carry out tasks related to strategic reserves or a special grant for the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs for carrying out the statutory tasks of the Fund are the tools necessary for the government to build and heal our economy. And here I hear even bizarre contradictions, because on the one hand there are accusations that the government does not defend Silesian enterprises, and on the other hand there are demands from the same circles to limit government action in the restructuring of the economy. It's some kind of paranoia or split personality. Although no, I don't think it's a disease. [[Those aren't two hands.]] It is a deliberate act, only to harm, at all costs to disturb and to rub. This isn't right. [[You voted for two hands.]] Specific party interests cannot obscure the good of Poland. I think it's enough damage to Poland. Dear Members and Members, I think that we need more trust and solidarity in matters relating to our general national good. About Free and Solidarni, as recommended by the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, will vote in favour of both draft laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u178	Thank you very much, Member. Are there still Members willing to ask questions? If not, I'm closing the list of people who are saved for questioning. Question time - one and a half minutes. First Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm sorry to hear you say that just now. This is a complete misunderstanding of what the budget bill is. I'm sorry. [[Applause]] But I have a question for the applicants or the government, because it's a government project. My question concerns a targeted grant to the Material Reserve Agency to carry out tasks related to strategic reserves. At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the President of the Agency did not provide the Members with any information on what amount, what, even general objectives. I don't know for what purpose he attended the meeting, because at some point he didn't admit that he was attending. That was the truth. I remember a year ago, just in December, the Material Reserve Agency convinced the Committee on Public Finances that it was necessary to buy coal, and they are not strategic reserves. Will the agency also buy coal on the heaps this year? For what purpose? Why doesn't the finance committee get basic information? This, ladies and gentlemen, is unthinkable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u180	Thank you. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u181	Minister! My question also concerns the provision of resources to the Material Reserve Agency. We still do not know the answer to the question of what these saved funds will be devoted to. As I say, so far no one in the Polish Sejm has made any secret knowledge of it. Last year we knew what it was going for. I would just like to remind you that each of us, each of us, has a security clearance, so we are allowed to do this kind of information. [[The Minister will show us.]] This is why I repeat the question: Will these funds be used in the same way as last year for the purchase of coal, or maybe for agricultural aid? Because there's an extremely difficult situation after that ASF and avian influenza. This is, it seems, such natural, normal, resulting from the ordinary management and work of Parliament and here I have a request to the ministers: do not make secrets from problems that should not be covered by secrecy. And once again, every one of us, at least most of us, has security clearance and access to specific information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u182	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm looking at this project and I'm wondering, Minister, what do you want to hide from the Sejm, what do you want to hide from the Sejm, from the citizens, because it's unlikely that the Ministry will put in the bill such a provision that Parliament has no right to ask, to receive information on what the government is spending money on. Then why are we even prosecuting the budget bill? Why don't you put out an empty card, the majority of the government will vote it out, and you'll have peace. We will not ask questions about what the entire budget is going for. This is really a curiosity record. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you, is it in line with the constitution that the executive authority is hiding expenses from the legislative authority? Is that consistent with the constitution? Is this consistent with the legal order of the Republic of Poland? If Members have security clearance, they have access to information, they can always convene the Chamber's meeting in secret and provide any information. Entering directly into the law that the Sejm has no right to receive information from the government [[♪ The bell ♪]] About spending, it's really curiosity. Explain what you want to spend your money on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u184	Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the Tuesday reading of the Act, we did not learn what the amount of blocked money from the 2016 budget was and exactly what it was meant to be for. Mysterious expenses tell us about buying cultural goods, but we don't know at what price and what price. I wanted to ask the Minister of Culture straight away: Is this money supposed to be used to buy a painting of the Dam with a weasel and a collection of the Chartory Foundations? The media have been working on this for several days, although the minister's negotiations with the foundation have been going on for years. The price of over PLN 1 billion is exchanged, and the painting is to be sold along with all the works from the collection. Minister, tell me where the money from which the Ministry of Culture wants to buy Leonardo da Vinci's painting is coming from. It cannot be that the state budget is secret. Please state clearly the purpose for which this money will be spent. You're breaking the constitution. How embarrassing are you? It's not imaginable for me at all, how you treat the finance committee. What is this, some kind of secret knowledge for the chosen? To me, it's just unimaginable. How can you do that? I expect a written reply and don't tell me the state budget is secret. This is a shame for this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u186	Thank you. And Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u187	Dear Marshal, Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Young People at the Gallery! It's a constitutional violation again. I wanted to ask you why you made a secret out of the budget. Yesterday, the amount of funds blocked in the budget was estimated by the Minister of Finance at about PLN 700 million. How many blocked measures are there gonna be? 1 billion, 2, 3, 5? He's sitting in the courtroom with the Deputy Minister of National Defence. Scandalous chopper contract case. Minister, I'm from Mielec. And you in Mielec explained whether you were going to buy two helicopters this year, and then you pulled out of it. How much money from the helicopter contracts is gonna be blocked this year? Why haven't you provided full information on this matter until today? I notabene also wait for an answer to the interpellation. Here's another thing. Security clearance, Material Reserve Agency. I would like to ask the President, the Minister, to set a date, because I would like to see this information as a Member, and I have the right to do so. If the Minister points out that I do not have such a right, please tell the High House why the state did not give us this information in private at a specially arranged meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And don't try... because we're trying to handle the purchase of cultural works with gentleness, but, Minister Sellin, it can't be that Parliament doesn't know how much money will be blocked. You're trying to burden us here by saying that if this doesn't happen, it's our fault. No. It's gonna be your mess, your unprofessionalism, and your constitutional violations. And I think young people who are on...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u188	And now, my fellow Member, it will be my fault...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u189	...gallery, they know what's going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u190	...because time is up and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u191	Order, rule of law. This is what we need in this House...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u192	Well, if the order is right, my fellow Member, we're done here...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u193	...observe. And to you, young people...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u194	...because time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u195	...all the best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u196	Order has to be. Time's up. That's a good example. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, please. [[No comment.]] [[What's 30 seconds to cover the budget?]] But this time, which you are now taking up with the High House, receives Mrs Tomaszewska's opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I remember the case of finding Chopin's letter abroad. At that time, it was a huge problem for the Polish state to buy out this letter. If this law is adopted in such situations... [[But it worked out clearly.]] ...will use these reserves? Thank you. [[But Chopin's letters were bought in open mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u198	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u199	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to ask Mrs. Zwierzan to say that it would be worth reading the bill rather than reading the positions written by someone before he takes his stand on the Seymary. Your position clearly indicates that you have not been familiar with the law on which you spoke. But I have a question for the Minister. What prevents us from maintaining a control function over expenditure, whether it be the Material Reserve Agency or the Fund affected by this change, and what prevents us from talking about expenditure that should not see the daylight of which information should not penetrate the general public in order to benefit from the formula of the secret committee deliberations? Since other committees may hold such meetings, there is nothing to prevent this possibility from also being used in the case of the Committee on Public Finance. Meanwhile, you want to completely bypass the information of the Members about government expenditure. I would like to remind you about these records, which today on the occasion of talking about the fact that the government wants to make a good purchase in the name of the Polish state, are introduced, that these are permanent changes, permanent records [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Public Finance Act, which is to deprive the members of this committee of the audit function. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u200	Thank you, Member. The list of Members of Parliament has been exhausted, so I would ask you to speak first, undersecretary of state in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Visitors to the Gallery! Mr Andrzej Costowniak actually served me with regard to describing the value of the collection, which we are seeking as the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the collection of Princes of Czartoryski. I regret the fact that the questions that have been raised here by Mr Mirosław Suchon and Mrs Małgorzata Płępek on a matter that I explained yesterday in the Committee on Public Finance - I think I have informed quite a bit about it, perhaps even a little too much because of the sensitivity of matter - are being asked in a situation where I clarified the situation yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance about what I have said, among other things. in this reserve, which we are trying to enter in point 1, it walks. So I will no longer talk about what I said yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, about the value of this collection, because I could talk about it for a long time, as I am dealing with it and I am impressed with what we have the chance to achieve, this hope and these dreams of many Poles and very many experts of the subject that we have the chance to achieve. But at the same time we are at a very delicate moment, which means that there is no 100 percent guarantee that this case will succeed, that these dreams will be realized. That's why I was talking yesterday, and today I'm quite honest about the details and the negotiations, and the amounts that are at stake, I just can't keep informed. On the other hand, I would like to stress again - and we have been talking about this for many months, said the Deputy Prime Minister of Culture Piotr Gliński - that we are taking measures to regulate the legal and ownership status of the Czartoryski Princes' collection in Krakow. However, decisions on this matter require common arrangements with both the Founder and the Chartory Princes' Foundation. Our intention is to develop such a solution, which will allow adequate to the extraordinary value of collections of this collection to take care of them and will allow them to be kept in Poland for future generations, because it is 100% It's not guaranteed today. Nor will I refer to the political or polemic style that Krystyna Skowrońska has applied. I think that you perfectly understand the delicateness of the moment and situations in which we are here today, and yet in your speech in the debate on this point you used a language typical of the total language of the opposition, which in no case is able to recognise... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: We did not refer to your point.]] I'm also a politician, and I'm entitled to political polemics when there was a political upheaval. ...that for the sake of the public, something can connect us. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Yes, but we emphasized...]] Each case, even very noble, even one that should link us above divisions, is used as an instrument or a challenge that leads to political polemics or to set foot. I'm sorry, but unfortunately, I got that. On the other hand, when it comes to parliamentary control over the government, I am also a politician, and for eight years I have been an opposition politician. She was then a Member of the governing coalition. I release you from this responsibility, because you have also expressed concerns about the control aspect of Parliament's work on the government, as you have also said, but you are so-called. I'm a freshman. I recall, as a longtime member of the opposition, that during the PO-PSL coalition, parliamentary control over the government was becoming increasingly fictional from year to year. And that's what we were dealing with at the time. And there were also questions from Mrs Tomaszewska. We use, we try at the Ministry of Culture to take advantage of every opportunity, to pick up just such information or opportunities to buy at auctions valuable for national culture works or collections. This also applies to Chopin's letters. But it's a situation that sometimes works, sometimes it doesn't. It depends to a large extent on the price. We can't always afford to buy. Sometimes prices are simply unimaginable, even barren. But we have a lot of success in this matter. We are also successful in the recovery of works of art lost or plundered during World War II. This process accelerates when it comes to finding these things and identifying them, and proving in different places in the world that the work comes from Poland and should be returned to Poland. And it is very often also possible to recover such a work simply without financial contributions. So this thing is an absolute priority in the activities of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. We have a special department that deals with war losses and has very good and precise documentation. About 60,000. We look for works, we have them inventoryed, we have them illustrated, photographed. At a time when most museums or auction houses digitize their collections and also show what's in the magazines, we are increasingly able to find the things we've been looking for for for years. I ask the High House to accept this government proposal because it will enable, including point 1, for which I am responsible and my resort, to realize something that will really be for what is owned by the Polish people and state, very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u202	Thank you. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Hanna Majszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First, I would like to inform Mrs Hennig-Kloska that I did not answer the question on the Material Reserve Agency at the committee meeting. The Member has summoned me... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You replied. We can get to the transcript.]] ...but the answer was from the president of the Material Reserve Agency, not me. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Excuse me.]] With regard to questions such as: Mrs Genowefy Tokarska and other Member States, on the Material Reserve Agency, of course I cannot say more than the President of the State said yesterday, but as regards the amounts that may be involved, because this is also about the resources that may be earmarked for this purpose, as I informed your Members during the first reading of this law, from the information that we receive, because as regards the possible need for funds in order to make purchases for the Material Reserve Agency, such information is available to the Minister of Finance and in this respect can be fully answered as far as possible. According to the information we have received, this could be an amount of about 20 and 30 million. As I informed the High House at the first reading of this draft law, it is not known whether it will be possible to spend these funds because of the procedures in force for the agency to ask for tenders or public tenders depending on the goods and the amount for which goods are purchased for the agency. Therefore, with regard to the information we have about the size of the resources that the agency would be interested in, this is the It's this row of greatness I mentioned. As to why it is impossible to proceed in a different way over the type of purchases and for which these expenses are to be spent, Mrs Hennig-Kloska also asked me why the committee could not work in a different way, I would like to say that I do not decide how the Committee on Public Finance works: whether it is confidential or not, so this question is not for me. On the other hand, as regards the amendments to the so-called provisions. the Around Budget Act, i.e. the amendments excluding recourse to the Committee on Public Finance with a change in the financial plan for the Agency for Material Reserves and a change in the plan of the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs, is the reason why such solutions are contained in this Around Budget Act, because it is highly likely that any transactions to which these purchases are likely to be made will be made in the inter-Christmas period. It is not yet known which day, therefore it would be difficult to properly direct these transactions so that any procedures could be ensured and at the same time that these transactions could be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u204	Thank you. And your Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I must say that I am surprised that the Member is from Mielec, but it is good to make this clear. I am surprised that the voters from Mielec could vote for someone who has lobbied for recent years to destroy Polish bets to destroy the plants that employ Poles, lobbying for French helicopters. I would like everyone in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship to know that Mrs Skowrońska, Member of the Civic Platform, was in favour of buying French helicopters, not Polish helicopters. It is very good that we are holding this debate today. As for what we have done with the money, if you were interested in what is happening in your constituency, you would know that there is an armored company like Huta Stalowa Wola, which was awarded a contract for the program last night, worth nearly PLN 5 billion, and which six months ago was awarded a contract for the program "Rak" worth PLN 1 billion. We prefer to leave the money of Polish taxpayers in Poland, in Polish factories, so that jobs in your district are created as well as elsewhere, even with our closest allies, in France, Spain or Germany. It is good that this sounds like what the Civic Platform wants to do and what the Civic Platform cares about: about the budgets of allies, but not about the budget of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u206	Thank you. [[In the title of corrigendum.]] Of course, my fellow Member, correct it. One minute to corrigendum. [[And give me 50 seconds, because...]] 'Cause I'm afraid an hour wouldn't be enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u207	I'd like you to apologize to me, Minister, because unfortunately you haven't looked. I've been a Member since 2001, and you weren't in Parliament at the time. The airlines were in big trouble at the time since 2001. I was there with Mr Jasinski in 2005. Please check how many times these bets have received support funds, how many times the bets have received them so that they do not fall. You know perfectly well and ask the trade unions how many mutual meetings we've organised so that these bets don't fall for the third time. If you knew about this, you would say that I was one of those people who cared about the Polish Aviation Works. You should know very well how the Ilrida programme was completed and what was the fight in this Parliament in 2005. You wouldn't be talking nonsense. That's the first explanation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd also like to tell you that's not what I asked you because I wasn't lobbying for any bets. The project and contract were transparent. If there was any information on this matter and the need for contact, the situation was as follows: comments, meeting, letter, meeting at the Ministry. It wasn't my job to lobby. My role is to comply with the rules. I asked you - you have shown yourself as the largest politician in this House - how much money in the 2016 budget will be frozen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u208	Madam President, first of all, time has passed, and second of all, this is hardly a correction, but this is a discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u209	And to Minister Sellin, I was extremely gentle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u210	Thank you very much, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u211	You know that. You accused me of all the false things in this bleacher, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u212	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u213	...on the purchase of the Czartoryski Princes' collections...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u214	Member, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u215	You know I've shown exceptional delicacy. [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u216	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading it was submitted to print no. 1130... [[And I expect you to apologize to me.]] Member, please... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: Mrs...]] Minister, I'm sorry. [[...sorry, you'd know too.]] Madam, please don't disturb me. You can apologize to each other in the roundabouts. [[I also want you to know and see how much for Steel Wola...]] Don't bother and take your place, Member. Due to the fact that during the second reading it was reported to... [[I'd like to...]] Madame, I will reach into the Rules of Procedure. [[The Minister can't lie.]] You will give me this cheat sheet, and we will call the Member to order. [[If you call the Minister to the truth.]] Madame, I would like to point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. And that's why I'm asking you to take your seat, lower your emotional level, and close this point. [[Mr. Marshal, please apologize to me from this podium because it's a lie.]] Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[I'll wait for that apology.]] In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading it was submitted to the bill submitted, in print no 1130, the amendment, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to item 29 of the agenda... [[If the Minister wants to apologize, there's still a chance. From that bleacher.]] There's clouurs for that, please. [[I will refer the matter to the ethics committee, Minister.]] We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act (Prints No 932 and 1084). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, sir, again, because the microphone was turned off.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, print No 932. High Izbo, the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, has examined at its last meeting on the draft law of the Code of Civil Procedure. The purpose of this proposal was to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which ruled that Article. 408 The Code of Civil Procedure is incompatible with the Constitution to the extent that, 5 years after the judgment was passed, it does not allow for the reopening of proceedings on grounds of nullity resulting from the infringement of the Article. 6 the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Therefore, the committee leaned on the submission of the government, which in fact extends the deadline described in the Article. 408 to 10 years old, which, according to the government, will allow full implementation of all those claims that have so far been potentially possible with such a 5-year time frame. The Commission has welcomed this government proposal by introducing two legislative and editorial amendments in the article. 408 and Article 408 2 of this proposal for a law. To the rest, the government proposal raised no objections to the committee. Therefore, I have the honour to ask the High House to adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u218	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on a proposal to amend the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, specifically Article. 408. This government submission was the result of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal delivered by the rapporteur, so-called. the judgment of 22 September 2015 stating that Article. 408 to the extent that, 5 years after the judgment was passed, it does not allow for the reopening of the proceedings on grounds of nullity resulting from the infringement of the Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is incompatible with Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I'll remind you, Art. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 provides that the law must not close anybody's judicial path to the investigation of violated rights and freedoms and Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 concerns the right to court. Everyone shall have the right to a judicial decision within a reasonable period of time by a competent, impartial, independent and independent court. The proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights are usually slightly longer than this 5-year period, which is also a direct prerequisite for this amendment. I would like to add here that the Constitutional Tribunal has deferred the expiry of the existing Article. 408 c.p.c. for 18 months as from 3 April 2017 It is also worth recalling that already in the case-law of the courts, especially in the votes to those judgments, as well as in the doctrine of civil proceedings, there are such requests that this 5-year period for the reopening of proceedings should be extended. Let me remind you that the term in the article. 408 has been in force since 1 January 1965. This amendment complies with these requirements, except that it has been extended to all grounds for renewal, which are not only based on the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, as well as on other grounds for renewal mentioned in the article. 408 Code of Civil Procedure. A transitional provision is also introduced to provide that in cases initiated before the date of entry into force of this Act in which that 5-year period has not expired, a 10-year period as amended by the law shall apply. As far as vacathio legis is concerned, it is a basic minimum, 14 days from the date of publication of the law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice calls for the support of this government proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u220	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Zdzisław Gawlik. There's no envoy? There he is, he's coming.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I wanted to present my position on the draft amendment to the Civil Procedure Code as regards the provision of the Article. 408 c.p.c. on the possibility of reopening proceedings. This amendment is the result of a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which imposes certain obligations on Poland to adapt the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. in terms of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Of course, there are many problems in this context, there are many problems related to the need for the law to take into account the consequences of the passage of time, there is a problem of determining whether we are ensuring the stability of the legal situation of those who are in a position to be formed as a result of judicial decisions, or whether we are looking for the justice that is to be expected from the law. Does the proposed amendment address all these matters to the end? I'm sure time will show, but on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I wanted to tell you that the Platform Club will support this chosen form of art amendment. 408 Civil Code and the manner in which the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is enforced. [[Civil proceedings.]] Code of Civil Procedure, yes, 408 c.p.c. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u222	Thank you. And Paul Grabowski, please. There isn't. This is Marshal Barbara Dolniak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It follows from the justification of the draft law that the amendment of the article. 408 c.p.c. is related to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal SK 21/14. The Court found this provision incompatible with the Constitution, but only to the extent that, 5 years after the judgment was passed, it does not allow for the reopening of proceedings on grounds of nullity resulting from the infringement of the Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Court pointed out the need to introduce a separate one from that laid down in Article. 408 c.p.c. the time limit for lodging an action for reopening civil proceedings on grounds of nullity of that procedure, the reason for which was the infringement of the Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Conventions established by the final judgment of the ECHR. Therefore, the constitutional reservations did not relate to the length of the pre-litigation term itself, but to the fact that it could disappear before the party to whom the complaint was taken into account by the ECHR could exercise its rights under national law or the exercise of those rights would be hindered. The elimination of this threat may take the form not only of an extension of the deadline - and there is considerable doubt here as long as, after all, we cannot predict each case how long the proceedings before the ECHR will last - but also of the withdrawal of that period in a situation where the party refers to the fact that the basis for the renewal was learned from the ECHR judgment. However, the proposed law provides for an extension of the five-year time limit for bringing an action for the reopening of proceedings in all cases where the renewal is permitted by the provisions of the c.p.c. without limiting the scope of the application of the new time limit to the case of a violation of the Constitution. The explanatory memorandum also states that the introduction of a separate pre-emptive period for the renewal of proceedings only for cases where the grounds for renewal are based on an infringement of the ECHR Convention would be an asystemic solution for the current regulation of the reopening of proceedings, as the provisions on this issue do not distinguish the resumption of proceedings due to the ECHR judgment. This view cannot be accepted if it is considered that the catalogue of grounds for reopening civil proceedings has been extended several times, examples: Article. 408, Art. 403 § 4 or Art. 416 c.p.c. In the statement of reasons set out above, the Constitutional Tribunal expressly stated that it did not call into question the usefulness, necessity of a five-year period for bringing an action for the renewal of civil proceedings. It is therefore appropriate to amend the Article. 408 c.p.c. adding to the exceptions set out in that provision such a solution where the party indicates that the basis for the renewal was learned from the ECHR judgment. The extension of the pre-emptive period to lodge a complaint for the renewal from 5 to 10 years will not definitively eliminate the possibility of an actual situation, which was the basis for the finding of the unconstitutionality of the Article by the Constitutional Tribunal. 408 c.p.c. The modification concerns only the abolition of a 5-year limitation in the event of a reopening action for a party which looks back on the deficiencies identified by the ECHR and which the party qualifies as the basis for renewal. The absence of a limitation of this 5-year deadline does not constitute a novel, as it already occurs in the cases referred to in Article. 408 c.p.c., while leaving this restriction to the rest of the grounds for renewal will serve to preserve the stability and sustainability of final judgments constituting one of the elements of the rule of law and thus also the values protected by the Convention. The duration of proceedings before the ECHR continues to extend and it cannot be excluded that only shortly before the expiry of 10 years after the end of the judgment in the case, the party will obtain a judgment of the ECHR declaring certain actions of the State which would fall within the grounds for the resumption set out in the c.p.c. as violating the Convention and the party will not have full 3 months to bring an action for renewal. The fact that the proceedings can be reopened for so long may make it impossible to effectively bring an action for the finding of unlawfulness and, consequently, deprive the parties of the possibility of effectively seeking compensation for a judicak delict. It should also be pointed out that, contrary to the statements in the statement of reasons in the literature, the subject matter of the amendment of the article. 408 c.p.c. by the extension of the period indicated therein shall not be notified. The draft provides for an inter-temporal provision, the provision of which raises a constitutional objection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the modern amendment to this draft law is tabled. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u224	Thank you very much, Marshal. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to announce to the High House that we do not see any doubts that would discredit this project in the name of the Polish People's Party's Members' Club. As far as further work is concerned, we are in favour of further proceding it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u226	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. The provisions of this Act extend the time limit within which an action for the reopening of legal proceedings can be brought from 5 to 10 years. Although the main objective of the amended amendment is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 September 2015, it is not limited only to cases which were the basis of that judgment. Regardless of the grounds for filing a complaint, citizens will have 10 years to do so under the new rules. As has been repeated many times, extending this deadline will allow citizens to exercise their rights more freely. Despite the reservations which the Supreme Court and the National Court of Justice sent to the project, the reservations that the new deadlines should apply only to the addressees of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, I agree with the arguments of the projectors. The distinction of new conditions for renewal would entail additional complications and difficulties. The solution proposed is therefore, in our view, an appropriate response to the judgment of the Constitutional Court. About Free and Solidarni supports the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u228	Thank you very much, Member. One Member joined the question. Would any of you like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. You're welcome, Marshal Barbara Dolniak. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to ask the Deputy Minister, on what basis would the revision of this provision only be an asystem change with regard to ECHR rulings, since the catalogue of grounds for reopening civil proceedings has been extended repeatedly? I was talking about art here. 401, 403 § 4 or 416 K.p.c. I would also like to ask you on what basis you claim that there are demands in literature to increase the period from 5 to 10 years as regards the complaint for reopening the procedure. Please give me this example. And on what basis are you saying that a 10-year period is enough? These proceedings are quite long and can happen - this country cannot be ruled out, and the rule must be general, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. predict all solutions - that there will not be a situation that the deadline will be exceeded. So? The Constitutional Court ruling again? It is necessary to create a regulation that will ensure that the party is able to resubmit the application for reopening, taking into account the unpredictable length of proceedings before the ECHR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u230	Thank you very much, Marshal. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite you to respond to the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Michael Wójcik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u231	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, I naively came today to try to answer questions, but I did not think that they would be confrontational questions from one group as usual. It is usually the case that when I come to the Sejm, it is your marshal who will contest any proposals that are made. Of course, you have a marshal, a right to represent a group, it's a matter of course, but it's worth going back to what happened here in this room several times, which is the question of what is the reason why we're updating the recipe. The reason is the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal - I will remind you, this is the starting point - of 22 September 2015 on the subject of the article. 408. Of course, we were able to accept different solutions. We could possibly have adopted a separate basis for filing the complaint, we could have changed the time limits. We've decided on a second option because it's part of our tradition. The point is not to tear down the entire system. If your marshal is talking about whether this ten-year deadline will be sufficient, then it is worth asking the question: 15, 20 years? It is known that these are long-term proceedings, and we had to adopt a reference point that would stabilise civil law relations. As a civilist, you know very well that we had to adopt a point of reference by referring to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and protecting human rights and freedoms. What may be the answer to your doubt - these are the thesis I actually wrote concerning the issues you have asked about - that is, the argument for introducing a separate basis for renewal due to the ECHR judgment, is, first of all, the departure from the possibility of granting the ECHR, for example, indirect powers to overpower the final judgments of Polish courts despite the lack of a clear conventional or deliberate basis. The Convention does not require signatory States to introduce into their national legal order an option to resume final civil proceedings if the ECHR finds that there has been an infringement of the Convention in the course of this procedure. Moreover, let us bear in mind that in this situation there may be a possibility of conflicting the legal situation of entities which are parties to the civil case itself. Your marshal knows very well that, once this situation has been reversed, there could be a case in which Article would be violated. 6 conventions, which is exactly the opposite of what we're talking about here. Certain rights of the parties or participants in proceedings would be violated here. This is a civil procedure which has completely different rules than administrative proceedings. or criminal, where this separate basis could actually be introduced. As far as the issue of literature is concerned, I cannot answer you right now, but I pledge to provide such information to your marshals as requested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u232	Thank you very much, Minister. In the mode of correcting your Marshal Dolnyak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I have to refer to those words that if you come and present the project, I have reservations. That is the Member's right to say that if he considers that the project is incorrect, he must make comments. On the other hand, I would like to say that you probably did not fully listen to my speech, because I said that the catalogue of grounds for civil renewal is being extended repeatedly, and I pointed out specific provisions. That's one thing. Secondly, extending the deadline to all cases thus undermines the stability of the caselaw. There is no reason in other cases, because other situations are already regulated in the legislation, and this article. 408 takes into account two exceptions. Our amendment concerns precisely the third exception in relation to the ECHR judgment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This means that if we extend the action for reopening the procedure indefinitely, then on the one hand we will look at the party who refers to it, but also remember that the stability of case law and the legal situation it is also a matter of the other party who is the opposite of the case. You have extended the possibility of filing a complaint to a very long period, please bear in mind the consequences of this up to 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u234	Thank you very much, Marshal. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I refer this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: First reading of the government bill on auditors, audit firms and on public supervision (print No. 1092). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House at first reading a draft law on auditors, audit firms and public oversight, print No. 1092. The draft law aims at adapting to the Polish law solutions provided for by European Union law, introducing a reform of EU rules on audit of financial statements. That's what I call it. the EU audit package. It concerns the implementation of Directive 2014/56/EU amending Directive 2006/43/EC and Regulation No 537/2014 on detailed requirements for statutory audit of public-interest entities. The new rules introduce a wide range of changes aimed at strengthening the independence and objectivity of statutory auditors and audit firms by significantly reducing and eliminating the conflict of interest between statutory auditors and audit firms and the audited entities, in particular the audited JZP. The aim is to improve the quality of statutory audits by improving the quality of audit reporting to different addressees, entities, regular dialogue between audit firms, as well as supervisory authorities, strengthening the role and tasks of the audit committee in the audit firm's election process. It is also intended to strengthen public oversight by strengthening its independence from the environment of auditors. The bill presented includes these solutions in the national legal order, introduces modifications of the current system solutions in the area of research and public oversight of audit in order to comply with the new requirements of the Union. It retains certain provisions already in force which do not require amendment, completes the transpositions of the existing provisions of Directive 2006/43/EC in order to improve the current regulations and facilitate their application and interpretation, and complements the implementation of Directive 2013/34/EU on annual accounts, consolidated accounts and related reports of certain types of entities. The most important arrangements for transposing the Directive and enabling the Regulation to be applied are a new model of public oversight and oversight tasks, the designation of the audit committee of the KNA as a public oversight body for statutory auditors and audit firms. The KNA will now have the power to carry out planned, ad hoc and thematic audits in audit firms investigating JZP, investigate and prosecute as prosecutors before courts on disciplinary offences committed in connection with statutory audit of public trust units, conduct administrative proceedings for the imposition of penalties on audit firms in relation to irregularities arising in the examination of a public interest unit. The penalties and sanctions for statutory auditors on disciplinary offences committed in connection with the JPA statutory audit will be imposed by common courts. It is also about monitoring the concentration in the research market, financial statements, the competitiveness of audit firms, the supervision of tasks entrusted to the National Chamber of Auditors, the appointment of the Financial Supervision Commission, the KNF as a public oversight body for public trust units. In accordance with the new regulations, KNF will supervise the JZP's selection of the audit firm and its rotation and rotation of the key auditor, impose penalties and sanctions on JZP, members of the supervisory board, audit committee and associated persons, and monitor the activities of audit committees in public trust units. There will also be a delegation of certain tasks of public oversight to be carried out by professional authorities, assuming that the Audit Supervisory Board is ultimately responsible for overseeing these tasks. The KIBR body, the National Supervisory Commission, the KKN will have the power to carry out scheduled and ad hoc audits of auditors and audit firms in the field of statutory audits of entities other than JZP, to carry out audits of auditors and audit firms in the field of services covered by national standards for the pursuit of the profession other than statutory audit. There will be a narrowing of the scope of public oversight and public oversight only to statutory audits. The new catalogue of public interest units of JZP will be imported, i.e. it will be reduced to 1932 units compared to the current 1994. It will include entities whose securities are listed on a regulated market and which are subject to statutory audit obligations, credit institutions, national banks, branches of credit institutions and branches of foreign banks and insurance undertakings, open pension funds, general pension societies, open investment funds, specialised investment funds, public investment funds closed, large SKOKs and certain brokerage entities, large electronic money institutions. SKOK-i, electronic money institutions that do not meet the definition of a large unit are excluded from the JZP directory. This includes regulations and restrictions on the provision of services, research and services other than research for the benefit of the audited client. Mandatory regulation of the audit firm investigating JZP - maximum every 5 years, 4 years of withdrawal. The minimum period of employment of an audit firm is 2 years, as proposed in the project. Mandatory rotation of the key auditor for JZP surveys - maximum every 5 years plus 3 years of withdrawal. Gradual rotation of the most important subjects in the study teams. The black list of prohibited services, such as in the Regulation, has not been extended. This list of prohibited services includes services such as participation in the management and decision-making process of JZP, accounting and financial statements, development and implementation of internal control procedures or risk management procedures, admission to provide the audited public trust and tax advisory and valuation services, 70% limit of remuneration for non-black services provided to the audited JZP, 50% limit of remuneration for services subject to conditional exemption from the provision ban, tax advice and valuation. Strengthening the process and rules for selecting audit firms are the next provisions of this law. The obligation to have an audit committee, a KA, by all public trust units and the ability of the supervisory board or other supervisory body to act as KA has been introduced. Other provisions set out new requirements for the organisation of internal audit firms and the reporting of the audit carried out, while the new catalogue of penalties and persons subject to penalty for infringement of the provisions of the Act and the Regulation will appear to be punishable by statutory auditors and audit firms, bodies of public interest, entities associated with JZP, third parties related to JZP, and subcontractors of audit firms or other persons and entities who participated in the activities, studies or could influence the outcome of the audit. The maximum amount of the fine is 250,000. PLN in the case of natural persons and 10% in the case of natural persons income in the case of legal persons. The Act also lays down new rules on the financing of the public oversight system. The supervisory fee for the quality of JZP statutory audits will be a maximum of 5,5% the revenue of audit firms for the execution of financial audit activities and will be paid directly by audit firms to the State budget. In 2017, this fee will not be charged at the maximum rate, its rate is intended in this Act, set at 5,15%. The fee for supervision of the quality of statutory audits of non-JZP, i.e. other entities, will be up to 1,5% the revenue of audit firms for the execution of financial audit activities in non-JZP and will be paid by audit firms directly to the account of the National Chamber of Auditors. The percentage of this fee will be in 2017, as assumed, 1,34%. Entry into force of the Act. The draft law will in principle enter into force 14 days after its publication, with the exception of the provisions on supervisory fees which enter into force on 1 January 2017. The provisions of Regulation No 537/2014 on detailed requirements for statutory audit of public-interest entities should be applied directly by the entities to which it is addressed from 17 June 2016. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u236	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Soboń, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u237	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On October 28, an article was published on Bloomberg's website about the so-called audit firm. The big four, being an auditor of Facebook, provided tax advisory services to him at the same time, resulting in an aggressive tax structure leading to tax avoidance of an estimated amount of up to $5 billion. It was revealed that Facebook paid almost $23 million to the audit firm for the audit, but at the same time more than $21 million for tax planning services and other non-audit services. In such a situation, does the auditing auditor have a chance to retain the so-called "book audit'. professional skepticism? Professional skepticism, objectivity and independence - so necessary for the safety of all market participants. That is why this law, the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight, which we are debating today, is an implementation of the Polish legal order of the directive and regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The directive and the regulation are an attempt to answer the question: Why, despite the obligation of auditors to audit their accounts, was there no indication of the economic failure that we have faced? Why didn't the auditors respond in time? What is the situation in Poland? The results of the UOKiK study indicate a strong focus on the audit market so-called. Big fours. Let's call it simple: we have the oligopolies of foreign audit and advisory companies. Between 2008 and 2013, as many as 80% of listed companies were audited by the auditors of the Big Four. As far as WIG 20 companies are concerned, they were all investigated by foreign companies so-called. Big fours. In addition, the analysis carried out on the structure of revenues of groups of audit firms in Poland showed that the broadly understood advisory services ranged from 74 to 81% total value of sales revenue generated in Poland. Thus, the Government's bill on auditors, audit firms and public oversight of print No. 1092 is intended in particular to: increase the independence of auditors and thereby improve the quality of audit of financial statements, strengthen public oversight measures over the activities of audit firms and auditors, regulate the provision by auditors of services other than audit of financial statements, regulate the mandatory rotation of audit firms and key auditors, define a catalogue of public interest entities to which stricter statutory requirements are applied, and create real sanctions for infringement of the law or regulation. I firmly believe that we should strive for as much transparency as possible in the market, because it is not only in the interests of entrepreneurs, but also in the interests of the Treasury and of all citizens, so as not to allow the economic crisis caused by the so-called economic crisis to recur. creative accounting. Experience shows that the State should take responsibility for the control of the independence of auditors and sanctions for breaching them. The statutory auditor is a profession of public trust. It is his work - to a large extent - that depends on the stability of the Polish economy. Excessive concentration of the audit and consulting market is also a barrier for Polish audit companies, which currently have no chance to compete with foreign corporations. As the social side, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers rightly points out: It is necessary to increase the level of competition in this segment of the market so that Polish audit and advisory companies, including smaller, often family ones, can compete with international corporations in any way. And the employers continue to write: Poland should implement a total ban on statutory auditors to provide services other than directly related to the financial audit. What do we think should be pointed out in the course of further parliamentary work? Firstly, to prohibit the provision of services other than strictly related to auditing financial statements. We believe that the auditor has an extremely important task of examining the financial condition of external companies - so he cannot participate in its formation, cannot advise business and tax, because then he evaluates the effects of his own advice and becomes an involved entity. Secondly, we want to draw attention to the definition of the network. In order to be effective, the creation of structures by audit firms should be prevented in order to circumvent the rules, e.g. the division of audit companies or the appointment of subsidiaries in order to provide both audit services and broadly understood advisory services. Thirdly, the definition of an individual of public interest so as to ensure transparency and market security as far as possible by recognising as JZP [[♪ The bell ♪]] all economic players. Finally, fourthly, the obligation to rotate so as to improve the quality of the study by reducing the audit's dependence on the audited entity, so that this dependence is as small as possible to make this rotation real. The project is a government project worth working on to improve the stability and development of the Polish market. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u238	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government bill on auditors, audit firms and public oversight, print No. 1092. The aim of the proposed law is to implement into the Polish legal order the new provisions of European Union audit law, including Directive 2014/56 of the European Union on statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts and Regulation 537/2014 on detailed requirements for statutory audits of financial statements of public-interest entities. The Directive contains the basic provisions for all audit firms and auditors, while the Regulation includes additional requirements for audit firms and statutory auditors investigating public-interest entities. The new Community legislation introduces a number of changes aimed, first, at strengthening the independence and objectivity of statutory auditors and audit firms by significantly reducing and eliminating conflicts of interest between statutory auditors and audit firms and audited entities, in particular audited public-interest entities, second, improving the quality of statutory audits by improving the quality of audit reporting to different addressees, regular dialogue between audit firms and supervisory authorities of credit institutions and insurance undertakings, additional control of the quality of the execution of the audit order, in particular public-interest entities, thirdly strengthening public oversight by strengthening its independence from the environment of auditors and enhancing supervisory powers. The new rules of the European Union are part of the regulatory reform in various areas of the financial sector and are the result of action taken by the European Commission in response to the global crisis in 2007. The aim is to restore confidence in markets and financial institutions and strengthen the stability of the financial system. The new rules aim to prevent errors and irregularities in auditors' reports, lack of reliability and reliability of audited financial statements, excessive intimacy between the management of the audited entity and the audit firm, threats to the independence of the statutory auditor and others. Unfortunately, the draft law in many places raises very serious concerns, which require a fundamental change. Thus, the proposed definition of a public-interest entity significantly narrows down the current catalogue of these entities, particularly in the area of cooperative savings and credit banks. Currently, all SKOKs are included in the catalogue of public-interest entities, while the introduction of this definition will result in only two cash registers and one cash in bankruptcy for SKOKs. Banks as deposit-taking entities whose payment is covered by the guarantee scheme should all be treated as public-interest entities as public funds cover the costs of their bankruptcy. And they've been avalanche lately. The exclusion of most SKOKs from this definition limits part of the supervisory powers, which in particular in this case is absolutely unjustified, and even, I will say more, dangerous. The Act of Procedure will replace the Act of May 2009 currently in force. Much of the legislation comes from that law. As a result of the public consultation, the comments submitted to the draft law were partially taken into account, but some of them remained not covered by the Ministry. They are very important, and therefore, in the process of further legislation, they require a specific, in-depth analysis. An example of this is the Commission's comment on the catalogue of entities defined as public-interest entities that I was talking about. The adoption of this definition will mean reducing public oversight to a minimum and could jeopardise the achievement of the important objective of EU regulation, which is to achieve a high level of protection for consumers and investors in capital markets. This threat must be eliminated in further work. Notwithstanding the above comments and reservations, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club recommends a bill for further work in the Public Finance Commission. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u240	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Blaze Parda, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the Act on statutory auditors and their local authorities, entities authorised to audit financial statements and certain other laws were prepared by the Ministry of Finance to transpose into the Polish legal order the new provisions of European Union law on audit of statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated financial statements and detailed requirements concerning statutory audits of financial statements of public-interest entities. The Stock Exchange Issuers Association has offered numerous comments on the project, with which we largely agree. Attention should be drawn to the general tendency of the proposed proposal not to adapt the proposed regulations to the real possibilities of their addressees and to over-regulation of the rules relating to the way audit firms operate. In this respect, we are questioning the appropriateness of introducing a number of solutions which are not required by the implementing directive and which the projector intends to introduce in some way. We call for a derogation from the provisions introducing additional provisions that are unjustified in EU law and stress the need to adapt the implementing rules to the conditions of the Polish audit services market. The proposed provisions of the Act included local government units which are issuers of securities in the definition of units of public interest in excess of 150 000. residents and obliged in accordance with Article. 268 Public Finance Act to examine its financial statements. The increase in research costs will be 20% compared to current prices and will be covered by the revenue of the local government units, which will unfortunately add to their budgets. The National Chamber of Auditors informs that reducing the rotation period of audit firms from 10 to 5 years will in no way affect the concentration of the audit market, units of public interest, but will hinder the development of smaller audit firms. In addition, countries extending these rotations by 14 years are given as an example, e.g. Germany, France or Norway. The question is whether, with such an extension, the rotation mechanism fulfils its basic task. In my opinion, not exactly. Rather, it strengthens current companies and blocks access to others to some extent. If we had several national large players, this extension would make sense, because to some extent we would create an additional barrier to entering our market, but the situation of the Polish audit market is very different, so solutions used in other countries will not necessarily work well in Poland. The National Chamber of Auditors also proposes a joint study, that is, a study carried out by two different, independent and unrelated companies. The idea itself seems right, because it will really be easier to catch mistakes and irregularities. It may be a problem to agree between these companies and present a joint study report on the joint opinion of the study, resulting in a loss of meaning for the joint study. It would be reasonable to examine separately and present two independent reports, and the differences resulting from them would be the basis for a more in-depth examination of the problems, as well as a certain element comparing the quality of the study. This would give us greater independence, transparency, credibility and certainty of the results of the study proposed by the National Chamber of Experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u242	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u243	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The amendments proposed in this draft law are in fact linked to the alignment of the current provisions with the Directive on statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts and the Regulation on detailed requirements for statutory audits of financial statements of public-interest entities. The Polish Government was obliged to implement these provisions by 17 June 2016, so we are already behind schedule and in fact it is time to take a seat on these changes. The proposed law aims, as we read, to strengthen the independence and objectivity of statutory auditors and audit firms by significantly reducing and eliminating conflicts of interest between statutory auditors, audit firms and audited entities. In particular, it draws attention to this conflict of interest in the case of the examination of public-interest entities, i.e. credit institutions, insurance institutions and pension funds. Moreover, a significant proportion of these provisions apply to this market. With great concern as a modern club we look at changes in the catalogue of public-interest entities and what has already been mentioned here, i.e. the exclusion from the catalogue of public-interest entities covered by the statutory examination of most SKOKs. We know very well what the situation of SKOKs in Poland looks like, how many have fallen recently and how many are at risk of financial problems. Loosening control of these entities is unacceptable, for which the Polish government should not under any circumstances allow, moreover, control of these entities should also be tightened by independent audit firms, which should systematically examine the balance sheets of these entities. This law is also intended to improve the quality of statutory audits by introducing liquidity reporting to the various addressees of the supervisory function, strengthening the independence of public oversight by eliminating the audit community and improving the quality of supervisory instruments. The Act introduces e.g. the obligation of rotation of audit firms carrying out statutory audits of public-interest entities, the restriction of a package of services other than research for the same client, the limits of remuneration for the services accompanying the audit and the limits of total remuneration obtained from one client, the tightening of penalties, the improvement of monitoring. This really requires some changes. It is important to sit down and seriously think about how to change this market so that it is safe. It is worth looking at the position of the National Chamber of Auditors, which was sent to you by Secretary Wiesław Janczyk. According to the National Chamber, the Act lacked a number of relevant elements, including, above all, the envisaged, strangely implemented joint study regulation, which would in the longer term lead to a defocusing of the market for research of public interest entities. The House notes that this market has been dominated by several global corporations, and it is true. A joint study would enable small and medium-sized Polish audit firms to enter the market, which in turn would encourage their development and gaining new experience. Nor can we disagree with the conclusion that a joint study would contribute to improving the quality of these studies. The audit carried out by two independent audit firms is a double verification, and therefore a greater transparency, credibility, and let us remind you that it is a question of investigating institutions whose possible bankruptcy can have disastrous consequences for the economy. To show the scale of the problem, it is worth mentioning that today 29 companies from WIG30 are audited by the four largest audit entities and in WIG20 - all. So it is also worth to lean on this problem in the work of the subcommittee, which I think will be established. As I said, the market requires a lot of changes, but here I would like to refer to the previous statement, because I disagree with my previous speaker. Well, Mr Soboń asked why audit firms did not anticipate the financial market crisis. The financial crisis did not start in Poland and audit firms in Poland could not define this problem because Polish banks had [[♪ The bell ♪]] problems related only to the termination of transactions in the in-bank market. This is where knowledge is worth to be completed. The Modern Club is in favour of referring this law to committee work, and we will be happy to join the work on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u244	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u245	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party will support this project, is in favour of referring to further work of the bill on auditors, audit firms and on public oversight, because it is an important act, it gives more assurance, more certainty that companies to which our country has confidence, function well, do not mislead us. After all, life on a daily basis shows us how many different surprises we have when it comes to failures, irregularities in these companies, and it is important to do this honestly. I'm sure it's not gonna be like clockwork, but it's important that when we work on this law, we take it as honestly as possible to have as little politics here as possible. Fair work in committee, subcommittees, if set up, is needed because examples of law-making in the last few days show us that we do so very often on our knees. You can't do a job like this here, especially since nothing's after us here. If we are already behind in the implementation of European law, nothing will happen if a month or two months later, I think, we adopt this law and it will be well prepared, it will meet expectations. I think it is important to avoid politics here, because we have some examples from earlier years. Here we talked about SKOKs, about how difficult it was to introduce KNF to SKOKs. The effects have been visible and visible so far. If this had been done before, I think we could avoid such irregularities. In this law, in these proposals we continue to try to do something, we cannot do such things, because these are institutions of public trust which citizens trust, the state should also trust and this institution cannot do anything other than other institutions. We will want to work honestly and honestly on this project. We appeal, Your Marshal, to the High House, to prepare a good bill that will serve our economy well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Four people signed up for the questions. Would any of you like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u247	Not much, but I'll fit in, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have this question: How did this happen and why does the proposed definition of a public interest entity significantly narrow down the existing catalogue of these entities? This is particularly the case for cooperative savings and credit banks. Currently, all SKOKs are included in the catalogue of public-interest entities, while following the introduction of the new definition they will be only two cash registers and one cash register, which is currently in bankruptcy. This will reduce supervisory powers over other SKOKs, and it's very bad there, and I don't think that's a secret - bankruptcy for bankruptcy. Is the new proposal for a definition accidental, or is it intentional? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u248	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law is modelled on the EU audit package, and this in turn refers to certain negative phenomena and abuses that in Poland, according to practitioners, simply does not exist. I would like to remind you that each country has the opportunity to adapt the guidelines to its own economic realities. Have there been any economic scandals involving auditors in Poland so far? Further, in accordance with the law, the supervisory authority will receive enhanced supervisory and investigative powers. The penalties will be drastically tightened and their amount is not adequate to the economic realities of audit firms. Money penalties of up to 10% may be imposed on them the revenues achieved in the previous financial year. And it's a drastic change, because before that, it was about the revenue from the financial audit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And now for total revenue. In turn, a penalty of 250 000 can be imposed on the statutory auditor. zł. I wanted to ask you how this applies to the remuneration of auditors, to the planning of the activities of audit firms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u250	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask, because this draft law is supposed to bring our rights into line with EU law, how many of these adjustment provisions are there, and how many new things you put in there as a resort to improve the functioning of this law. But in what percentage... The consultation of what you're giving was quite broad. In what percentage of the comments submitted by the interested parties were taken into account? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u252	Thank you very much, sir. And as your last question, you are asking Artur Soboń, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska pointed out that the crisis did not start in Poland. I didn't suggest that. The thing is obvious. But the obvious thing is that we have to learn from the experiences of others. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. Can these experiences be repeated in Poland and affect the market in Poland? It is about the experiences of Arthur Andersen and Enron, such as Anglo Irish Bank's experiences, such as BEA System, Lehman Brothers, Satyam, Olympus, etc. Is such an experience an abstraction, or is it part of the global market?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u254	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Wiesław Janczyk for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank those who have prepared very substantive club speeches and very interesting questions. I will try to answer these questions immediately, ensuring that this is the beginning of our work on the document, on the government project that will now be sent to the finance committee. In my opinion, there should be a subcommittee which will deal in detail with the regulations that this project contains. There were some concerns about the functioning of this new regulation. Allow me to address these comments and concerns. For example, in the club speech of the Civic Platform, the Member raised this fact and asked why, for example, at the moment. SKOK-i, all SKOK-i, will not be covered by those rigors which are subject to public trust units. Well, the answer is very simple. We have a 2015 ruling from the Constitutional Court which says and draws attention to the fact that financial institutions should be subject to supervision and control in proportion. I would like to reassure you that the fact that JZP entities are leaving the catalogue will not result in an expert examination being carried out there. It will be performed under the supervision of the National Chamber of Auditors. There are a little lower fees, I gave it in my speech. They are much lower and will therefore be more appropriate to the scale of business. We, in general, when implementing various EU regulations, are often faced with such inadequacy, which is that the scale of business, which is regulated by EU directives, comes from Western countries, whose capital has been accumulated and the companies that have it, have much more potential, much more opportunities, much more resources. The imposition of these rules on the countries of Central Europe, sometimes overzealously, by the authorities of some of these countries, makes the burden of reporting, assurance, building security systems so much a burden on business activities that they actually make it irrational or impossible. This is a question of the kind that it could be compared to the insurance market. In fact, you can imagine that everything can be insured, just the question of whether it's worth it or whether we can afford it. We in this regulation, for example at this point, show that we are careful about EU requirements and try not to apply here automation and take advantage of those opportunities which give precisely, appropriate to the scale of the business, the setting of a framework and legal rigours to certify the compatibility of our law and the functioning of the entities with EU law. So that I think this is a good example that is worth noting here as a certain achievement and success in the approach. This time we are talking about the example of cooperative funds, while - believe me - we are currently trying to define these requirements very precisely in the Ministry of Finance. We are also preparing a set of 100 changes for companies and constitutions for the business of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki's Deputy Prime Minister, a number of such regulations that will relieve companies from certain reporting burdens or just such insurance that would be inadequate and disparate to the scale of their business. This is a matter that has appeared several times in your questions. It seems that these standards we are talking about regarding the financial audit, the audit of reports must be as objective as possible, and that is because today capital is international. Often investors, owners - present, but also potential ones, those who are just about to acquire assets through our Stock Exchange or through investments in Poland - want to have maximum objective parameters, including those that are the result of the audit of reports and often this is what ensures the promotion of large international audit firms, which have a brand on the international market, but also an intercontinental one, and give such a specific sense of security. This regulation aims to create the possibility of opening up the market for audit and revision services for smaller operators. We listened with interest, as I heard, to the proposal from the National Chamber of Auditors to extend the Act to include provisions on a model in which small and large entities would jointly audit. I think this is one of the major topics that will be addressed in the process of working in Parliament on this document. Thank you for the initiative in this regard, we are open to it, we want to discuss it. If there are good proposals and good solutions and there is agreement that such a way of doing so will allow more small and medium-sized players to enter the market and kind of demonopolise it, then I think that we will be able to go in this direction in accordance with your expectations. When asked by Mr Soboń whether we can avoid situations like those related to Enron or Lehman Brothers, the answer is always one. It seems that here ethics and standards are what we can imagine as a way of prevention, prevention. We need to be aware that we need to aim for a rational framework for such activities and for the objectivity of all decision-making and reporting processes, so that they have the maximum reflection in actual transactions and risks, analyses of these risks and their scale, which data have, as if this asset, that they can quickly reach owners who can reasonably decide to withdraw from entities or to increase their commitment. Of course, it is important to be aware that the scale we are talking about is imposed on international macro-economic processes, which often have no impact on the auditor, regardless of how high quality the product is supplied, and that this element we are talking about here is only part of the whole decision-making process and the creation of rules for safe movement on the capital market, on the ownership market. There were also references to this so-called. rotation. I would like to say that these periods, designated and proposed in the Act, are the maximum periods, the owners have the opportunity to shorten these periods if they consider it appropriate. The minimum rotation period is 2 years. And I think that's the way... Ladies and gentlemen, I would also ask very kindly. I remember eight years of discussion about which financial institutions, smaller or medium-sized ones, deserve to be branded. And I must admit that I am astonished to listen to people whose voices seem very uncritical to me about those who are doing this, and a little irresponsible, and I would encourage you to move away from such a method of harassing some entities active in the financial services market in Poland. To be honest, I am surprised to see this because I think that if these entities, often with domestic capital, were stronger, there would be a lot of compensation processes and processes for losing a good name or real business influence. I hope, however, that, because I also admire some actors, that they survived despite such massive criticism which was taken and in the Sejm, and in the Sejm committees - we have this in the transcripts of the parliamentary speeches, and I have it in my memory, so I wanted to ask everyone very warmly - we will move away from this easy throwing, especially in the financial services market, our ratings, especially if they are not positive, pejorative. So I would like to ask that, when discussing this law in particular, try to concentrate to the maximum extent on the content, because there is a huge field here that we can define together, hopefully, for the sake of business, which can be done in Poland with a great sense of mutual trust of investors, potential investors, present owners. That's what I'm asking you to do with this bill. We are open to all relevant and good suggestions. I would like to thank everyone very much for their contributions and for their thorough analysis of the entire area of this proposal, this draft law. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u256	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft Act on auditors, audit firms and on public oversight from print No. 1092 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 24 January 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries (Print No. 1091). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a government bill on the exchange of tax information with other countries. The Act is crucial to fulfilling the obligations arising from a number of directives which require Poland to provide information on certain tax and property aspects relating to nationals of other countries on a reciprocal basis. We are entitled to expect symmetrical information about the assets of our citizens in bank accounts in other countries, which will lead to the sealing of the tax systems of the European Union and the elimination of certain abuses and undesirable practices in international trade or in the establishment of international structures. As I said, the Act provides for the exchange of information on financial accounts held by non-residents, individual tax rulings, transaction pricing agreements, protective opinions on the tax avoidance clause and so-called. country-by-country reporting, i.e. groups of entities, capital groups, their composition and size of business, e.g. about revenue achieved, broken down by jurisdiction. The central part of the Act is also the implementation of the Common Reporting Standard system obliging Polish financial institutions to identify, collect and transmit information on their accounts to non-residents to the tax administration. On the basis of reciprocity Poland will receive, as I said, similar information about financial accounts held by Polish residents in foreign institutions. We do not foresee significant costs of implementing this law, but we expect that this information exchange system will result in some sealing both within personal income taxes and corporate income tax. In connection with the time limits imposed by the directive, we are counting on the swift adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u258	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u259	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries, print No. 1091. The proposed law sets out the rules, modalities and characteristics of the authorities for the exchange of tax information with other countries. It also lays down the obligations of a financial institution for the exchange of tax information and for the automatic exchange of tax information on Reportable Accounts and for the control of their execution, introduces a regulation enabling the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation with non-EU countries on the basis of the CRS - Common Reporting Standard procedures. This bill implements several Council directives into the Polish legal order and amends six laws that concern tax obligations. The need for mutual assistance between different tax administrations in the exchange of broadly understood tax information is becoming increasingly important. Due to the huge increase in taxpayers' mobility, the number of cross-border transactions and the internationalisation of financial instruments, it is becoming increasingly difficult to determine the level of the bases due. Without mutual cooperation between tax administrations, a single Member State cannot effectively combat tax fraud and tax evasion. In order to overcome these bad effects, it is essential to create an appropriate system of cooperation between tax administrations. In recent years, the challenges of tax fraud and cross-border tax evasion have come significantly. Undisclosed and untaxed income reduces national tax revenues. Action is therefore needed to improve the effectiveness of the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion by strongly promoting the automatic exchange of information as a future European international standard for transparency and exchange of information in tax matters. The importance of automatic exchange of information as one of the measures against tax fraud and cross-border tax evasion has been recognised at international level by the G20 and the G8. Effective administrative cooperation between Member States is needed under conditions consistent with the proper functioning of the internal market by strengthening tools, information exchange mechanisms. The proposed amendments introduce transparency requirements for entities forming part of a group of entities. Greater transparency should encourage these groups of actors to reduce inappropriate practices. It should also be pointed out that, since 2013, extensive efforts have been carried out to reduce tax fraud and tax evasion within both the European Union and the OECD. The proposed law is another element in the whole package of good change, which will increase the revenue of the state in billions of zlotys. The legal solutions adopted in the proposed law will significantly increase the effectiveness of the exchange of tax information. The scope of reporting procedures depends on whether the account is a high-value account. It is appropriate, in fact, to significantly reduce tax fraud, particularly international taxpayers, with huge amounts of money. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries in print No. 1091. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u260	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries, print no. 1091. The purpose of the draft law is to regulate in one legal act issues relating to the exchange of tax information, as well as the very important objective of implementing the directives in the Polish legal order: Council Directive 2014/107/EU of December 2014 amending the Directive on mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, Directive 2015 of 10 November 2015, Council Directive 2015/2376 of December 2015 and Council Directive 2016/881 of 25 May 2016. It is also important to introduce regulations enabling the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation with non-EU countries based on existing procedures to comply with the obligation of the Republic of Poland in the multilateral agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information signed in October 2014. The proposed law standardizes the rules and procedures for the exchange of tax information with other countries, the obligations of financial institutions in the field of automatic exchange of tax information and the control of their implementation. The need for these measures is due to the huge increase in taxpayers' mobility and associated cross-border transactions, which seriously makes it difficult for tax authorities to properly measure their taxes. The problems of tax authorities in obtaining the necessary tax information are often used by taxpayers to tax evasion and even tax fraud. The lack of close cooperation between tax administrations in individual countries makes it ineffective and, moreover, every year these phenomena are becoming more and more widespread. The creation of a coherent system of cooperation between tax authorities in individual countries is therefore not only necessary but very urgent. For several years, the European Union has been making a cyclical diagnosis of the level of these adverse events in individual countries. On this basis, it considered it urgent to put in place mechanisms to prevent tax avoidance and fraud and thus increase the efficiency and efficiency of tax collection. This objective is served by automatic exchange of information as a European and international standard for transparency and exchange of information in tax matters. This is defined by Directive 2014/107/EU, whose implementation into the Polish legal order is the fundamental subject of the contested law. It is appropriate to agree that such significant and extensive legislation, in particular the implementation of EU law, is in favour of regulating the exchange of tax information in a single legal act. The draft law was subject to a public consultation on a shorter time limit for the submission of an opinion. According to the report submitted, only part of the comments were taken into account. The draft law requires urgent procedure, since the transposition deadline has already expired or will expire soon, only the 2016 Directive has a longer deadline - until 4 June 2017. In the overall assessment of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requires and is important for the tax system and facilitates the activities of the tax administration. However, it requires a detailed and calm analysis in the Committee on Public Finance and an in-depth analysis of the comments submitted during the consultation. There can be no rush here, because hurry always carries the risk of making mistakes. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club recommends that the bill be directed to further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u262	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. Mr. Michał Stasiński, Modern Club. There isn't. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u263	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the governmental draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries, together with draft implementing acts, that is, print no. 1091. The main objective of this project is to implement EU law introducing regulations related to the exchange of tax information between countries. When analysing transactions and financial flows at a time of globalisation, which we have, it must be said that the number of cross-border transactions is increasing, the activity of taxpayers is increasing and it is becoming increasingly difficult to properly determine the amount of taxes due. This situation is obviously conducive to tax evasion at precisely this cross-border level, as well as to the emergence of international tax fraud. In order to increase the efficiency and efficiency of tax collection, it was necessary to establish administrative cooperation systems between tax administrations of different countries. These expectations are met by the European Commission's directives. The main subject matter of this proposed Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries is introduced by Directive 2014/107/EU of 9 December 2014 as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. The project also implements Council Directive 2015/2060 of 10 November 2015 on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments as well as two Directives, i.e. Directive 2015/2376 of 8 December 2015 and Directive 2016/881 of 25 May 2016 as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. The draft law takes into account OECD elements of the global standard, known as the CRS, for the automatic exchange of financial information in tax matters and also applies to countries outside the Union. The whole CRS package was approved by the G20 finance ministers and central bank governors in September 2014 and Poland signed an appropriate multilateral agreement on automatic exchange of financial information in October 2014. This basic Directive 2014/107, as well as the draft law, are based on this CRS procedure and establish uniform reporting rules, due diligence rules in all Member States, as well as in other countries outside the Union. The bill contains a very comprehensive vocabulary of concepts and definitions, protecting against divergent interpretation of the provisions of the Act. Very detailed, with great care, lays down rules for the exchange of information, at the request of the Office, with the Member States, of automatic exchange of information on reported accounts, defines the obligations of reporting financial institutions, lays down rules for the implementation of reporting procedures. The project also regulates the rules for the exchange of information on tax interpretations and decisions on transaction prices in entities forming part of a group of entities. The project was subject to a large number of public consultations. Some of the comments submitted were taken into account and others remained to be re-examined. The draft also contains rules on penalties. Here, one negative assessment is that the duality of this sanctioning is introduced, i.e. through administrative and criminal penalties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, the bill is needed, it is necessary. On behalf of the club, I recommend that the project be directed to work in the Public Finance Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u264	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to inform you that Mrs. Monika Rosa, on behalf of the Modern Club, has made a written statement. One person came to the questions. Would any of you like to ask another question? If not, I invite Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After the implementation of this Act, the Polish taxpayer's holding of funds in foreign bank accounts or the investment of funds through foreign financial institutions will no longer be a secret to Polish tax authorities. The rules for reporting on the amount of income and tax paid and the places of business will be amended. This applies to individual entities that form part of international capital groups. The obligation to provide this information now rests on the parent undertakings operating in Poland, consolidating financial statements, holding an establishment or subsidiaries abroad. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This raises the question which I have for the authors of the project: Will the obligation to report after the entry into force of this Act include entities other than dominant undertakings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u266	Thank you very much, Member. And I ask the Minister to answer the question. Please, Mr. Paweł Gruza, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry... There isn't. The Minister will prepare a written reply. [[Good.]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u267	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries, print no. 1091. The draft submitted is an implementation of the EU directives, so we are obliged to adopt it from the top. It is worth noting, however, that this adoption should be carried out within the time limit set in the Directive. Unfortunately, as is usually the case, in one of the directives we already have almost 2 years of delay, which in turn raises the harmful interest of the EU institutions for Poland. The exchange of tax information involves the increasing mobility of entrepreneurs, freedom of movement of goods, capital, etc. However, we must bear in mind that just as we will have an insight into tax systems, including in particular interpretations, in the countries involved in this information exchange system, so will the other countries have a full picture of our system - no, I'm sorry, a tax mess that makes life difficult for our entrepreneurs every day. I therefore hope that the repeal of the window, which is the introduction of the contested law, will be an incentive to take concrete, far-reaching steps to re-establish a transparent, business-friendly tax system. However, as regards the project under investigation, the Kukiz Club15 recommends that its Members support further work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u268	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position regarding the point: First reading of the government bill on the exchange of tax information with other countries, print no. 1091. The proposed law standardizes how and how tax information will be exchanged with other countries and which authorities will be required to exchange such information. The modalities under which the exchange of tax information will take place, either on request or ex officio, are indicated. The draft law also presents categories of information which will not be subject to such exchange, for example information on social security contributions or tax charges. The automatic exchange of information is intended to enable national tax administrations to obtain information from pre-defined financial institutions on accounts identified by them as being operated by non-residents or entities controlled by them, without prior request and at regular intervals. The Modern Posel Club requests further work on the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u269	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the exchange of tax information with other countries, contained in print No. 1091, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 24 January 2017. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Government's draft act on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 46 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft act on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes between Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies (prints 1151 and 1162). I would very much like to ask Mr Soboń to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u270	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes between the Republic of Poland and the territories to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies, print No 1151. At the 32nd meeting of the Sejm on 14 December, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance. The Commission considered this draft law at its meeting on 15 December 2016. At the meeting and discussion on the proposed draft law, legislative changes were made at the request of the Legislative Office in the title and in the content of this short law. The Act has an annex, which is an agreement between the Warsaw Trade Office in Taipei and the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Warsaw on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes. Two sentences of clarification: treaties on the avoidance of double taxation concluded with States are subject to the procedure laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and in the Act on international agreements. These agreements shall normally be ratified with the prior consent of the law and on the basis of Article. 87 and Article 87. 91 of the Constitution becomes part of Polish law. They may be applied directly and, in the event of a conflict with the law, they shall have priority over their application. In view of the relations between Poland and China, it is necessary to exclude the conclusion of an agreement between the governments or the finance ministers of the parties. The concept, which was adopted, and this is also a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is a concept of a law transposing an agreement between commercial offices into Polish law, approving the agreement and ensuring its execution in Polish law, subject to reciprocity. This agreement is part of the draft law. This reciprocity between Taipei and Warsaw is preserved here, and therefore the Act pursues certain objectives from the point of view of taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u271	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First... [[Not 3?]] ...the vote will be taken by Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u272	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the 1162 report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes between Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies, print No 1151. During the work of the Committee on Public Finance, as presented by the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Soboń, a number of changes have been made, legislative changes to the original draft, including the title of the law. The proposed solutions in the government bill form a legal framework on the basis of which the principles of mutual cooperation in the field of income taxation will be laid down by transposing the provision concluded on 21 October 2016 between the Warsaw Trade Office in Taipei and the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Warsaw. In view of the principles of Polish foreign policy in the case of Taiwan, it was not possible to conclude an act regulating the avoidance of double taxation in the form of an international agreement. The legal status of Taiwan has led to the signing of an agreement between two representatives with competence, including the promotion of economic, commercial and cultural relations between Taiwan and Poland. The proposed bill introducing double taxation regulations in Poland's relations with Taiwan removes the obstacle to the development of trade and economic relations. Taiwan is an important market for Polish goods and a potential source of investment. The proposed solutions open the way for exports in various economic and commercial sectors, which is why the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the report of the Committee on Public Finance in print No 1162 which includes a draft law on the principles of avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion on income taxes applied by the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u273	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club for printing 1162, i.e. the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the draft act on avoiding double taxation between Poland and Taiwan. I spoke about the risks arising from the application of a legislative prosthesis yesterday and these concerns were confirmed by the legislators at the committee meeting today. It is clear that it would be better if it were an international agreement if we had made some changes earlier in the International Agreements Act, so it would be safest. But we have such a legal act, i.e. an agreement between the Warsaw Trade Office in Taipei and the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Warsaw, and to this act, which in a sense transposes these terms of agreement into the Polish legal order. Given that the previous government, the Government of the Civic Platform, has also taken action towards such regulation, and knowing that such an agreement is needed, the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u275	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u276	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern One, I would like to confirm with great joy the fact that this law has been passed for so long expected by Taiwan's representative office in Poland and by companies from Taiwan. It is very important that this law enters into force by the end of the year and starts to apply from 1 January 2017. I will not repeat what has already been said in this Chamber about the dangers of Taiwan's unique situation within international law. Business knows no boundaries, business doesn't know the obstacles, and it's gonna be okay, and we're gonna use it if we support it. Yesterday, as vice-president of the parliamentary team of Polish-Taiwan friendship, I met with the ambassador, a representative of Taiwan in Poland. Three Taiwanese companies are already waiting for this bill to enter Poland, act, create jobs. But it is worth mentioning briefly three things that should still be done. The first thing is the regulation on mutual recognition of driving licences, which the Taiwanese party is also looking forward to. The second thing is to change the name of the Polish representativeship in Taiwan. The word "Warsaw" is a beautiful word, but it would be worth it, as in other countries of the European Union, to change this name to a Polish representative office in Taiwan. The third thing that Taiwan's representatives mentioned, and they pointed to it as an area of good business for the company, which is LOT. The purpose of LOT is to make every effort to open an air link with Taiwan, because it is really a very fruitful market, surely this line would be profitable and therefore LOT would certainly benefit greatly from this. I thank the Minister once again for acting so quickly. To the happy finale. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u277	Thank you. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u278	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on the report of the committee on the bill, prints 1151 and 1162, which sanctions the attached agreement between the Warsaw Trade Office in Taipei and the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Warsaw on the avoidance of double taxation, the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and the protocol signed in Taipei on 21 October 2016. The Act will enter into force on the day following the date of its publication and will apply from 1 January 2017. At its meeting, the Commission only tabled editorial amendments to this proposal. Members of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this bill, this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u279	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Marshal Stefan Niesiołowski, the Circle of the Parliamentary Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said yesterday, I speak here on behalf of the Union of European Democrats, but also as president of the group, or actually Parliamentary team of Polish-Taiwan friendship, the largest team or one of the most numerous teams in Parliament. I wanted to thank you once again, Minister, and I wanted to thank all those who contributed to this matter so quickly. We have a paradox here because I don't know, four or five years since the first moves we've started... This is what the current Leszczyn Member has been working on... [[First of all, Mr Niesiołowski.]] Come on, let's just leave it... Mr Święcicki worked. I have to say that some complete, I don't want to express myself too much here, but some terrible infirmity, some inactivity here, and suddenly, completely instantly, in the last two days... - I know there was a lot of... - but within two days, this case was settled. The only thing that remains is to thank me, I think, also on behalf of the representative office of the Republic of China in Taiwan. I already told you yesterday - I will not repeat - about the history of Taiwan, which is somewhat similar to the history of Poland. This country that once defended itself in the east was a bastion against communism, a symbol of anti-communism. From childhood I remember, the Chang Kaj-shek was drawn with some bloody teeth, axes and claws, was Chang Kaj-shek, called the symbol of evil, was Tito, who was a Bloody Dog, as you know, on the chain. Chang Kaj-szek seemed to me as a child with the worst. He lived a very long time, lived to see the time when all of this became actually obsolete. Today it is a symbol of confrontation with Mao Zedong China, which was probably one of the greatest criminals of all time. The number of victims of Mao Zedong is not fully established, it is difficult to determine, about 100 million. I have to say, about... He can compete with Pol After, but in relation to the people of his own country, I don't think Pol Pot can beat anyone. Today, the island of Quemoy, which was a symbol of confrontation, is an island to which Chinese from mainland China come in search of various luxury goods, as well as wives. There's a population exchange going on. This is the symbol of the most fruitful cooperation. It is not the role of Poland to interfere in the matter of peace in the Strait, nor is it the role of Poland to suggest both sides, two parts of the Chinese nation, one of which lives in democratic conditions and the other not. Of course, we would like the entire Chinese people to live in democratic conditions, but first of all, it's not our role, and secondly, it's not. today's place to criticize continental China to any extent, because it certainly won't help Taiwan. Finally, the abolition of double taxation has, of course, a cultural, political, symbolic dimension. It took a long time for the Taiwanese side to... He also mentioned additional elements that need to be improved in relations with one another. I can only agree with that. Do you have to start with that today, it's a different matter, but I'm sure... For example, most of the European Union countries have long been dealt with, overcoming the problem of double taxation, i.e. This barrier doesn't exist. The names of these mutual representations are also different. In Poland it is called the economic and cultural office of Taipei, which is the name of the capital. I think they'd prefer the name of the country, of course. For various reasons, the name of the country, as they are called - the Republic of China, the Republic of China - is embarrassing, but I think the compromise would be the name of the island of Taiwan, as a compromise between this republic, which they call so... Because technically, they're still continuing Sun Jat-sen's tradition, or they're derived from it. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, with all my heart, thank you all. I'm glad. I think we're gonna vote today or tomorrow on this case. I don't think there'll be any controversy here. This is one of those cases that we've been able to complete. As head of the Polish-Taiwan parliamentary group, I can only express my great satisfaction. Thank you all again. I wanted to share this satisfaction with the High House and government representatives present here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u281	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Report from the Communication Commission to Poles abroad on the adoption of the Senate on the Law establishing the Eastern Cross (prints No 1106 and No 1121). I would very much like to ask Mr Michael Dworczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u282	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad on the adoption of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act establishing the Eastern Cross, print No 1106. High Izbo! I inform you that the Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed on 7 December 2016 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad for consideration. A total of 13 amendments were included in the Senate resolution. The Commission for Communication with Poles abroad after considering this resolution at its meeting on 13 December proposes to adopt 8 amendments, the remaining 5 reject. A positive majority of the amendments are in order and legislative, while one is strictly substantive and worth mentioning. Amendment 1 concerns the extension of the period during which events took place, which means that the award can be given to people of nationalities other than Polish, saving Poles in the East. Let us remind you that it was originally the years 1937 and 1959. The first date is the date of operation of the Polish NKVD, mass repression, 111 thousand. the people who were shot. It's practically forgotten in history. The intention of those who wrote this law was to pay particular attention to these dramatic events. The year 1959 was the end of the second repatriation, so-called. repatriation, which is actually the essential moment of depolonization of the ends of the Second Republic. The Senate in its amendment proposes that this period be extended and closed in the buckle of 1917 and 1991. The first date is the Bolshevik Revolution, the second - 1991 is the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Of course, there are reasons to support this amendment. Namely, after the Bolshevik Revolution, during which Polish lands were already severely affected by Soviet terror, there were deportations to Kazakhstan in 1936, other repressions, so it is justified. After 1959, repression also occurred until 1991, on a much smaller scale and, you can say, milder, but also these repressions took place. After a long discussion, the committee considered that this was worthwhile and a positive opinion on the Senate amendment. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, as I said in the introduction, the Communication Commission with Poles abroad after considering this resolution and the amendments contained therein proposes to adopt eight amendments, the remaining five amendments are rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u283	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this point. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marcin Porzucek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. The purpose of the establishment of the Eastern Cross is to commemorate the heroism and self-sacrifice of those who helped our fellow countrymen in the East who were persecuted for being Poles. The Polish people in the Eastern Kresa experienced terror and various repressions and persecutions throughout the 20th century. However, the Hecatomb of our compatriots was not indifferent to the part of the people of other origins and other nationalities living in the end. In the face of genocide and various acts of oppression experienced by the Polish people there were people who, risking their lives and the fate of their families, were helping Poles. It is for them that the Eastern Cross is meant to be. As regards the submission of the Senate, the key amendment introduces a time frame for assistance to Poles. The applicant's proposal, from 1937 to 1959, is changed to 1917 and 1991. This should be assessed positively. The Polish state remembers and does not forget the heroes who, in an act of heroic courage, carried help to the persecuted, risking even their own lives. Poles on the borders experienced above all the evils of totalitarianism and Russian imperialism, which took various horrible forms, but also fell victim to acts of hatred by their neighbours. As there is currently no state award that would appreciate people saving Poles in the East, the establishment of the Eastern Cross is needed. This distinction will also contribute to the continuation of reconciliation between the Polish people and our neighbours in the East. The Act is a historical gesture and is part of a series of activities carried out by the Law and Justice and President Andrzej Duda, whose aim is to nurture memory, show the truth and rebuild the community. That's why our club's gonna support the draft law on the establishment of the East Cross. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u285	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Wojciech Zietniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u286	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present the position of the club in connection with the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 1 December 2016 on the Act establishing the Eastern Cross. The resolution introduces several amendments to the bill proposed by the Sejm. I would like to comment on these amendments. The Act establishes a new state award awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland - the Eastern Cross, which is intended for foreigners who rescued Poles in the East in the years 1937 and 1959. On the other hand, the Senate proposes to increase the time frame for aid to Poles and cover the years 1917 and 1991. According to the senators, the summer of 1937-1959, it seems restrictive and inappropriate, because in this way we limit the scope of the beneficiaries of this award. It is difficult to argue with this statement, although the initiators of the establishment of the award admit that before 1937 there was also repression of Poles. But it was considered that the operation of Poland is so symbolic, but at the same time a forgotten event in the history of the Polish people, that it is worth to emphasize it, setting it as the limit date for the Eastern Cross. The second limit date was 1959, i.e. the end date of the so-called. Second repatriation. However, in view of the arguments of the Senate, which are set out in the explanatory memorandum, it remains for me, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, to approve the extension of the time frame so that all those who really contributed to saving lives, the health of those in need of help from their countrymen, were honoured for helping Poles. In the case of this award, this time frame should not be a matter of priority, but aid, support and dedication to our fellow countrymen. The other amendments are accidental changes in the time frame or are technical in nature. I have no comment on them. I would just like to point out once again the need to define the criteria according to which people will be qualified to decorate so that no one is left behind and to pay respect to all those who have sacrificed a lot to save Poles. The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u287	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u288	Dear Marshal! High Seym! It's gonna be a very short speech. The Kukiz Club, of course, supports the idea, of course, we maintain our previous speech, we vote in line with the committee's suggestions. I would like to congratulate Mr Dworczyk on the idea of this award. And we're hoping that without any unnecessary palary analyses, the next award or the next award will have the right Chrobry crown. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u289	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party a position on the law establishing the Eastern Cross. The establishment of the Eastern Cross is very legitimate, and it is the historic reparation and honoring of noble, very brave people, who, with exposure to their lives and their families, helped Poles on the former Eastern Ends I and II of the Republic of Poland and on the territory of the former Soviet Union and rescued them in the face of persecution and genocide. The Eastern Cross is an expression of gratitude and respect and memory for non-Polish people. The amendments tabled by the Senate following a thorough analysis of the club of the Polish People's Party consider it appropriate, in particular to extend the possibility of honoring people with the Eastern Cross for the years 1917 and 1991, so far it has been 1937 and 1959, as well as the possibility of honoring them with the Eastern Cross for the years 1917 and 1991. postmortem decorations, and other corrections. Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the proposals of the Parliament's Communications Commission with Poles abroad after examination. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u291	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Michał Kaminski, the Association of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u292	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This Seym in front of all its flaws is a paradise for those who love history. I am convinced that if public opinion polls were to take place in the afterlife regarding trust in our institution, then in the afterlife confidence in the Polish Sejm would certainly be much greater than among Poles really living today between Bug and Oder. Sometimes it is our interest in history that becomes grotesque, sometimes it becomes extremely ideological - this matter we are discussing today is not one of these matters. It is a very noble initiative and all I have to do is join in thanking Mr Dworczyk, who writes, I think, a very good card of Polish parliamentarianism and his own life story, which I know and appreciate. That's good, I'll repeat, the initiative, and I want to say that I agree with these Senate amendments. I think that they, referring to some historical reality, which was the criminal Soviet Union, broadening the framework for those people whom we want to honor for helping Poles, do well, extending this scope for the entire time of the existence of what some of the most fortunate of the systems claimed, which, contrary to these assurances, brought not only to the Polish people endless suffering and sacrifices. It is worth remembering, and I mentioned this in my previous speech, that this cross can be a good way of building reconciliation and friendship between Poland and nations living in the former Soviet Union. But here I want to tempt one historical remark, being an absolute supporter of this law and this cross - I apologize, this resolution of the Sejm and this cross - but let us remember that both the Russian people and other nations of the former Soviet Union were also victims of criminal communism. Of course, this does not diminish in any way the heroism of these Russians, Ukrainians, Tatars, Jews, Belarussians, Lithuanians who were helping their Polish neighbours, but I would like to introduce the idea in the future, Mr Hitler, that we should consider whether it is worth honoring also - separately, I do not know whether with a distinction or in any other way - Germans who helped Poles in conditions in which, however, Germany was not the victim of Adolf Hitler and were not, as some people today want to claim, a victim of World War II. In the case of the Germans - unfortunately there were not many, but they were so - the bigger honor and respect should be given to those who helped Poles. It would be worth honoring, too. There are totally heroic cases, cases of German Catholic priests who paid the highest price for confessing in Polish, although it was punished [[♪ The bell ♪]] in areas incorporated into the Reich simply by imprisonment and death. But let's remember the others. This resolution, the bill is worthy of support, so our circle will support it with all conviction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan put the club's position in writing. Mr Adam Cyranski speaks on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Club Parliamentary The state-of-the-art is in favour of the bill, and we will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u295	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Senate's Senate resolution on the Law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. The Senate has tabled several amendments to the proposal, some of which have been adopted by the Sejm Committee on Communication with Poles abroad. I share the opinion of the committee, both with regard to accepted and rejected amendments. The most important change made by the amendment of the Senate of the Republic of Poland approved by the committee is to extend the time frame for honoring all those who helped persecuted Poles. In the original project the possibility of granting the Eastern Cross was limited to those who helped Poles in the years 1937 and 1959. The Senate considered it appropriate to extend this period to 1917 and 1991. I am glad that this amendment was adopted by the committee, because with it the law allows to appreciate in a more comprehensive way the sacrifice of those who, before 1937 and after 1959, really helped the oppressed Poles. As I have pointed out before, we should honor all those who have been helping our country's citizens with their health and lives at risk. The establishment of the Eastern Cross is the right form of thanks. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u297	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance (Prints Nos 1108 and 1132). I would very much like to ask Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report to the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farming Animals, print No 1108. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 7 December 2016 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 13 December, considered the only amendment tabled by the Senate which it proposes to adopt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u299	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Kwitek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals. The Senate to the Sejm of St. the law introduced an amendment in Article. 2, in which the legislator provided for the possibility to benefit from the State budget up to 65% of the agricultural crop insurance contributions from one or more selected types of risks despite exceeding the tariff rates of the insurance set out in the Act. The provision of this Article sets out in detail the percentage of aid and the manner in which it is reduced in proportion to the percentage of aid increases in excess of the rates, but does not specify exactly the intention of the legislator. For this reason, the Senate amendment is absolutely necessary as it clarifies this regulation. This provision is transitional as it will apply only in 2017. Its introduction was motivated by the fear that insurance companies would not want to insure farmers in the preferred package insurance. Until now, farmers have been insured against one or more risks. The result of this action is that at present only 10% agricultural holdings are insured for about 30% of their crops surface. This is usually the case for commodity holdings producing on the market and the insurance applies to crops that are most exposed to weather risks. The problem was also limited offer of insurance companies for agriculture and the level of insurance rates too expensive for many farmers. Government-planned Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the draft next year's budget, an increase of almost five times in funds for agricultural and livestock insurance has aroused interest in both farmers and insurance companies. Currently, only three insurance companies offered insurance to farmers in the field of agricultural crops. The aim of the Act is to promote crop and livestock insurance and to increase competitiveness among insurers. This can also be done by the plan of the Ministry of Agriculture to set up an Association of Agricultural Mutual Insurances. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In summary, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u301	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals. At the stage when the draft law was still being examined in the Sejm, it has been pointed out on several occasions that one of the main objectives of this act is to ensure that farmers have universal access to agricultural insurance with State subsidies to insurance premiums. I am extremely satisfied that, as we can see, with sufficient motivation and willingness to help farmers, it is possible to make laws that really affect the lives of citizens and farmers in this case. However, it cannot rest on the laurels, because, as I pointed out in my earlier speech on this project, since the start of the insurance system, it was assumed that insurance cover would cover about 7 million hectares of crops. As it turns out, the current facts it does not even approach the expected results, and in addition it has a downward trend. This is a huge field for action. Anything must be done to speed up the process of reversing this trend. This law will undoubtedly contribute to this, but there is a need not to slow down and take further action in this area. As we can see, with good intentions, it is possible to create a law which is not an act that is regulated by law, and in a real way affects the reality surrounding farmers. I hope that this law is not only a one-off or accidental action, and it will constitute the start of a long series in the new year, it will be an action supporting Polish agriculture and Polish farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u303	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club. Switch. You're welcome. He's coming, isn't he? Mr Marek Sawicki? There isn't, either? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Oh, it's hidden... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the issue of crop and animal insurance has been discussed several times in this House since several terms. We're back to different versions. Let me remind you that the original version was a package insurance. The assumption was that of course there would be a minimum of 50% crop and insured animals, initially with state funding up to 50% of the premium, and a very high level of damage in agriculture made insurance companies unfortunately not interested in participating in this process, that of the four companies at some time we had only three. Also in the previous term, when agricultural organisations originally, but also agricultural chambers, were expecting Parliament to change the insurance system from package to individual, such changes were made. Even at some point, there was quite a significant increase in crop insurance, although this was not seen in the animal area, and later quite widespread natural disasters and State aid independent of the crop and animal insurance system made the number and scale of insured farms unfortunately no longer grow in the years to come. Last year an amendment was made to this law. The eligible share of the State budget has been increased to 65% of the contribution. This is also preserved at the moment. Random events within the insurance system shall be re-blocked, i.e. crop and animal insurance. And I want to say that this process needs to be supported, but I think that if we do not fully secure the budgetary resources and close cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and the European Commission, because it is, after all, public aid directed to this sector, we may have to re-new this law in a year and a half. So it is worth not only accepting these solutions and the amendments introduced by the Senate, but above all on the basis of the experiences behind me, I would suggest to the Ministry of Agriculture very active, from the very beginning of the entry into force of this law, its monitoring. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u305	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u306	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate adopted a proposal with one clarification amendment. This amendment clarifies the rules in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 on the tariff rates of insurance with a view to reducing the ambiguities of interpretation. In addition, the Senate specified the rule concerning the reduction in the amount of aid for agricultural insurance premiums in 2017. The amendment proposed by the Senate does not change the meaning of the Act, but it is worth noting that funding from the crop budget with such a high risk, which makes it necessary to set a contribution rate of 15% and more, it raises serious doubts as to whether it is not throwing money into the mud. Shouldn't these measures be aimed at combating losses and not at financing loss compensation after they occur? Droughts are a major threat to crops in recent years, but compensation for losses will not improve the situation, but will only increase problems. It would be much more effective to use these resources to improve the water balance of Poland, to fight against the phenomenon of a decrease in the content of caries in the soil, but also to work on the structure of such crops, which would be more resistant to adverse conditions. Now that we have such a huge budget deficit, it is important that spending is rational and that it gives hope that it will improve the situation in the future. Simple handing out to alleviate financial problems will only shift the financial disaster. When debating the issue of agricultural insurance, it must be borne in mind that a small number of insurance companies involved in this type of insurance result, among other things. the difficulties in the construction of the product, the lack of experience in the elimination of the damage and the imposition of the pricing method (fixing the maximum price levels at which the farmer is entitled to the contribution), the lack of profitability in the short term. As has already been said in the discussions on this project, amendments to the agricultural insurance law are made every year. In the longer term, steps should be taken to improve the insurance system. In many countries, e.g. in Austria, the problem of insurance in the case of drought or profitability in plant and animal production is solved through an index-based insurance system. In Italy, Hungary or Spain, income stabilisation instruments are put in place to improve the efficiency of dealing with instability and uncertainty of income on agricultural holdings irrespective of their origin (e.g. production or market). The payments from the State budget to the insurance premium will be up to 65% when the agricultural producer enters into a contract containing a set of risks, where the insurance undertaking determines a tariff rate not exceeding 9% of the insurance sum. Insurance against any risks, even those that may not concern the farmer concerned, may not be that large [[♪ The bell ♪]] enthusiasm for this insurance system. It is modern with farmers, but with a help that will solve problems in agriculture and not shift them over time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u307	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski joined the question. You're welcome. Question time - 1 minute. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The question is very simple. The insurance system will be the most important element in stabilising agricultural production, in particular field agricultural production. The amount of support that the State allocates for the following years is an impressive amount and should be sufficient for the introduction of a programme that will also enable farmers to benefit from it. Insurance companies, on the other hand, are not interested in this. And my question to the government: What to do, what actions to strengthen our common impact, so that these measures and this law are implemented practically, so that all farmers who want to insure their crops can have this possibility? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u309	Thank you very much. And the last question is asked by Marek Sawicki, the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the crop and animal insurance system has some preventive, preferential action, and when events occur, it saves income, stabilizes at least some of the farms. But it is also no secret that between 2005 and 2007 and later, we worked on the agricultural income stabilisation fund for the next eight years, and that the agricultural income stabilisation fund, if at least at the start could be supported by budget resources, would certainly be accepted by farmers, because today we have not only a problem with natural disaster insurance, but also a problem with huge market risks. So here is the question to the Minister of Agriculture: Are the work on the agricultural income stabilisation fund ongoing and when can we expect to present some option to the High House? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u311	Thank you very much. Minister Jacek Bogucki will answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome. Two questions, it should go very quickly and smoothly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski's question, I would like to say that the first symptom of the change we have, because after a few years, when only three insurance companies in Poland joined the system, five companies already came forward for the next year for the amount of about half of the sum planned for the grant, and already reported these companies, while ensuring that if they are interested in farmers, they will raise their expectations. In addition, work is underway to ensure that more companies join the system, as well as to create a mutual insurance company, a company in which farmers would participate. I hope that package insurance will be so attractive that more companies will enter, with better offers for farmers, more farmers will be insured, so that this grant amount will actually be used to ensure the safety of agricultural production. To answer Mr Marek Sawicki's question, I will say that the Law on the Fund for the Stabilisation of Agricultural Income has been prepared and is now after the changes resulting from the opinion, from external arrangements, with agricultural organisations. Another version has been submitted for agreement. In this difficult situation of farmers in recent years, it would indeed be good for this fund to function and stabilise the period that we have been dealing with. On the other hand, agricultural organisations often argue that at the moment, or at least a few months ago, farmers were simply in such a difficult situation that the creation of a fund that would come partly from the state budget, and in part from farmers' contributions to part of the organisation, seemed difficult, but we do not leave it behind, we are still working on this project. Given that the situation on agricultural markets is stabilizing, there is a chance that, in a good time when there are good prices for farmers, such a fund will start its activity, it will start to raise funds so that, when there is another fall in prices, another wave, which is unfortunately frequent and permanent, changing market situation when the situation is worse, the fund can function. So this is the second element of our action programme in this area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u313	Thank you very much, Minister. [[But the execution, Minister, was a blazer.]] Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on agricultural and livestock insurance includes, among others, a regulation which allows for the financing of crop insurance premiums from the budget of the State in 2017 from one or more risks despite exceeding the tariff rates set out in the Act. The amendment tabled by the Senate is substantive and concerns precisely this provision. It clearly indicates that it is the tariff rates referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. but also clarifies the rule of reducing in 2017 the amount of aid for agricultural insurance premiums. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour. Of course, we wish you the best. Agriculture is the only sector in which nothing can really be planned. Farming is about the climate. The weather that can't be predicted can be productive, but it can destroy the hard work of the whole year in a few minutes and block investment for the next few years. Farmers need stable solutions to ensure that they are rescued in these situations. Will this happen under the rule of this law? Will package insurance affect the universality of insurance? How will insurance companies behave? Finally, is there enough money? We don't know. There's a lot of unknowns. The package system has already been and has not brought the expected results in the form of a clear increase in the interest of insurance farmers. It turned out to be expensive and inefficient. PiS decided to return to these solutions. Next year the government plans to pump 900 million PLN into this system. In the year 2026 this amount is expected to amount to more than PLN 1.5 billion. These are huge amounts. Question: "Is everything enough for you?" Who are you gonna take? We are wholeheartedly with farmers, and we want them not to be deceived by further promises, so that it doesn't turn out that the government is about to say, "We don't have insurance." At the committee meeting, Mr Ardanowski said that he was hoping for understanding from insurance companies. Insurance, however, is a business, and there are no sentiments in business. We will monitor the functioning of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u315	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds (prints Nos 1107 and 1133). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Pole to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u316	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I present the report of our committee, in print No 1133, on the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act on agri-food promotion funds, print No 1107. He sent the Senate on 7 December this year. a resolution on the above matter to the marshal, the marshal in turn, to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Commission met on Tuesday 13 December and examined the Senate resolution cited above. The Senate requested that two amendments be considered, which concerned changes to the editorial provisions. At the committee meeting on 13 December, as I said, the members of the committee leaned on these proposals and unanimously accepted them. I therefore request, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, that the Senate's amendments to the Senate, which I have mentioned, be accepted in points 1 and 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u317	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u318	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present a position on the Act on agri-food promotion funds. At its meeting on 1 December 2016, the Senate of the Republic of Poland examined the law amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds and introduced two amendments. High Izbo! As these are editorial amendments, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u319	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u320	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position regarding printing 1133, i.e. report of the agricultural committee on the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act on agri-food promotion funds, print No 1107. Contrary to appearances, ladies and gentlemen, this law is very important because, for example, it needs to be done. to advertise in some positive way - that is the requirement of the times today - that this pork is not today - so to speak, not just pork - from a health point of view, as it was 40 or 50 years ago. Two amendments were made by the Senate. It's a cosmetic fix. Amendment 1. - in order to harmonise the terminology used by the Act, the words "living weight" were replaced by "living weight." Amendment 2. - similarly cosmetic. According to the reasons of the Senate, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to § 158 (1) of the Constitutional Tribunal. Point 3 of the Rules of Legislative Technology, the words "agricultural market tests', shall be replaced by the words "Law of 30 March 2001 on agricultural market tests'. U. z 2015 poz. 1160). In conclusion, these 2 amendments have not made any substantive changes, i.e. neither a change of function nor a change of meaning, i.e. impact, of the Fund. On the other hand, I cannot refuse to say that, among many minor changes to the previous law, you have no longer customarily denied yourselves the right to tamper with the bodies of the fund, i.e. management committees. There were four producers' representatives, there were five, there were four buyers, there were three, there was one representative of the agricultural chambers, there was one. This will certainly strengthen the role of agricultural producers and weaken the buyers. One representative of the agricultural chambers has been left. Are agricultural chambers, with all due respect, if the election goes from 1% to 4% per region The eligible farmers, on average, less than 2%, is that the right representation? With all due respect to the agricultural chambers, I'm not here to investigate the causes of this phenomenon. I think there is a lack of the courage of the rulers, and the time and here to analyze the reasons, because it is an agricultural government, a very important organization. Whether farmers are successful in marketing for buyers, let's see, let's give them a chance. Hardly, at a known rate, you will settle the issue of the resignation of the previous members of the board of directors, because the law [[♪ The bell ♪]] shall enter into force on 1 January and new candidates in accordance with Article. Paragraph 2 shall apply within 1 month of the entry into force of this Law. The maximum time for the selection of new committees is six months, but I think it's an article. 2 point 1, this entry will result in no release, which would not be advisable. Taking all pros and cons, the Civic Platform Club, after all, pointing pros and cons, due to its maximum tolerance will vote yes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u321	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u322	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. The Senate only made editing adjustments. Therefore, I will allow myself to refer to the entire bill. Undoubtedly, amendments to this Act were necessary. The bodies collecting contributions to promotion funds have repeatedly called for changes in the functioning of the funds so that this appropriation is intended to support domestic production. Unfortunately, the changes proposed by the government have only proved to be a cosmetic procedure, which gives the impression of a change for the better. The facts speak for themselves. The huge funding available to promotion funds comes from farmers. The funds should only promote Polish agri-food products, mainly outside our country's borders. Poles know very well that our food is tasty, healthy and of the highest quality. We do not need promotional measures that only increase competition between producers on the Polish market. The aim of the funds should be to focus the promotion of Polish food products abroad, so that the Polish brand is known, valued and willingly purchased by citizens of other nationalities. The promotion funds should be based on cooperation, joint activity focused primarily on foreign markets. It is only Polish farmers who consist of funds collected by the funds and they should be the main beneficiaries of the benefits of their operation. The Act in its current form does not change the scope and direction of the promotion. Polish farmers' money promotes Polish but also foreign raw materials. They gain Polish companies, but also foreign companies. So the question arises: Is this the purpose of the funds - from the money of Polish farmers to fund budgets and to multiply the assets of foreign entities, entities that currently employ workers in Poland, but when the economy changes, without any more sentiment, they will release these workers and move their activities to their country to support local entrepreneurs and their own country? We've had a few examples like this before, and let's not think it's gonna be different. Each country takes care of its interests, only Poland for some reason puts the welfare of others above its own. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like a moment of reflection in relation to my words. Of course, the entire bill is gaining our approval. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u323	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u324	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Senators have tabled two clarification amendments to the amendment. The bill was supported unanimously. The Senate has made the following amendments: In point 1, the words "live weight' are replaced by "live weight'; in Article. Point 1 (1) 6b in the joint part, the words "agricultural market research" shall be replaced by the words "the agricultural market research" of 30 March 2001. These are editorial amendments, which is why we do not object to them. The direction of the amendment is appropriate because it aims to promote Polish products. The Ministry ensures that the amendment of the Act will not block funds from the European Union, although the proposal to amend the Promotion Funds Act concerns issues of European Union law. If this is not actually seen by the European Union as discrimination against products originating in other Member States for the promotion of domestic products under EU law, the Modern Club is willing to support the proposed changes. Speaking of problems on the part of the Union, we are talking about two cases of the EU Court of Justice: against Germany and against Ireland. In both judgments, the EU Court of Justice stressed that operators established by national rules whose funding is made from compulsory contributions imposed by national producers' law do not have the same freedom to promote products as voluntary producer organisations. According to the judgment, the action of these entities must be attributed to a Member State and must respect the rules on the free movement of goods within the European Union. Therefore, they should not create measures similar to quantitative restrictions or discriminate against products originating in other Member States for the promotion of domestic products. Minister Babalski mentioned in his recent discussion on the project on the implementation of the This is, of course, a very necessary and important programme, but it has nothing to do with promotion funds, which are unlimited and, above all, involve much more money for the promotion of Polish products both in Europe and beyond. I still believe that the promotion of Polish organic food is insufficient, and therefore the prices of such food are very high because there is no demand for it. Yet there are conditions for farmers to develop this agricultural sector. This project is also linked to a project aimed at facilitating the sale of food by farmers. There is also the potential for the development of organic food. However, none of these projects contribute to the extension of production or promotion of organic food. Modern Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] will vote in favour of the project because the proposed changes are nevertheless intended to serve Polish producers. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u325	Thank you. Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Promotion funds adopted in 2008 entered into force in 2009. I would like to remind you that the years 2008 and 2009 were the years of the great global crisis in the food markets, and I believe that this instrument was one of the important drivers of economic growth, as well as of the high export dynamics. In 2007, the value of agri-food exports was just over EUR 10 billion with a positive balance sheet of less than EUR 2 billion. After a few years of functioning of this fund, we have learned, although we are not yet perfect, to jointly promote Polish food in all markets of the world, including the markets of the European Union. It was for the operation of promotion funds that could also be extended to the promotion funds of the European Union. Instead of distributed promotions at various trade fairs and exhibitions, Poland began to present itself similarly to France and Germany, creating large promotional complexes. So I judge this system well. I would also like to draw the attention of my colleague, Mr Sachayka, Chairman of the Agriculture Committee. Let us stop overly empathizing our farmers and consumers with the fact that here Poland is a country which is still threatened by food products from outside. We export more than 30% of our food production. It's also thanks to these promotion funds. I believe the Minister of Agriculture who says that these provisions on the promotion of national products will not harm reaching for EU funds, I believe this will be the case, but I remind you that excessive embezzling of us only and only the promotion of Polish, because good, can make our neighbours, and most of all we sell to Germany, Great Britain and the Czech Republic, will start using the same method. So with promotion funds, with high quality food products, let's try to make it is wise, reasonable to maintain this high dynamics, because thanks to these promotion funds agriculture has been in Polish exports of the third sector, with a positive trade balance for many years. The first is the electro-machine sector, the second is the chemical sector, the third is the agricultural sector. So this field, which for many years was considered a problem in Poland and in the European Union, has become a way of solving many problems, because export surplus, because thirty-two percent of exports are also jobs here in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And let us also not be afraid of making Poland a place where we will process raw materials imported also from nearby countries in order to process them and leave VAT in our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u327	Thank you very much. Time's up. Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Sawicki! I'm glad you're listening to what I'm saying, but I'm afraid you're listening to something so inaccurate. I know that we export a lot, I know that Polish food is well seen, I am only talking about starting to protect the Polish farmer, which is not done. If you'd come to committee meetings more often, you'd hear farmers complaining over the past few years about the fact that it's getting worse in Polish agriculture. I am glad and I think that we should process the export surplus as well as process other products, but we should process in Polish and mainly Polish plants, because we have very high capacity and large production capacity in our market. I would ask, however, that we take care mainly of Polish agriculture and Polish industry, not to boast that we are mainly making coffee and exporting cocoa. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u329	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The promotion of food, i.e. positive information provided to consumers, is one of the few tools on the EU market that we can use, tools that can really help Polish agriculture. It's a good thing we have promotion funds. We adjust the way these funds are spent and managed in order to focus them more on the promotion of those products that are produced in Poland. This law will serve Polish farmers well. I have a slightly broader question. The strength of Polish agriculture, also the attractiveness of the products of this agriculture, is the belief of consumers in the world that it is food produced here, free from GMOs or with a small addition of GMOs. This is our advantage, and this is the expectation of many of our strategic importers that we would produce this kind of food. Therefore, I am interested in the fate of the proposed law or other legal acts which have to resolve this problem in Poland, because it seems that this direction should be maintained both in terms of non-use of additives that might include GMOs, as well as in stages - I stress: the gradual elimination of protein components contained in feedingstuffs that are related to GMOs. What is the state of work on the non-GMO legislation announced by the resort, i.e. on GMO-free food, a law which will also allow to redirect some of the funds from promotion funds, with the generally understood promotion, to convince consumers to this very high, related to the lack of GMOs, quality of Polish food and to these activities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u331	Thank you. Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that there were four representatives of farmers, four representatives of processors and one representative of the agricultural chambers in the management committee, in the management fund management system so far, and that the Minister for Agriculture, in the form of these management committees, resigned from his representative on that committee? The share of farmers is now increasing by one person, the share of processors is decreasing, so if we are talking about promoting and using these promotion measures, then not processors, not entrepreneurs, even if they are foreign processors, will have a decisive impact on what promotion measures are spent on from this fund. So farmers will decide which products, how and in which markets they will be promoted. It is worth remembering that again, as I say, we should not fall into such alarmist tones. And the other thing. Is there, in fact, another, new concept for strengthening organised promotion, integrated promotion in terms of promotion? I remember that in 2007 we had few more than 350 producer groups, now we have more than 1.5 thousand. It is a law on farmers' organisations and producer groups, so it would be good to clarify this promotion scheme in the future in order to favour wider farmers' organisations in order to bind them more closely through processing, including through promotion funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u333	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski's question, although it goes beyond the area we are talking about today, the work on such solutions is ongoing - I would like to say that we must realise that reducing GMO cultivation in Poland does not safeguard, for example. before the influx of GMOs into Poland, so this requires a complex of activities and, on the other hand, providing a source of national protein, which is essential for the future, the source of protein, which would be competitive, allowed to produce competitively also food from Poland. So this requires a whole complex of actions and this is a solution that can be implemented in a short time, so it certainly requires work and time. At the same time, we must be aware that access to the market is open, so we must certainly bear this in mind. On the other hand, in terms of promotion, we are preparing to direct promotion measures also towards awareness of which food is GMO-free, to promote in this direction to increase awareness, because I do not agree here that Poles are fully aware of food and its origin, because this awareness is limited by information that has not yet been available. At a time when there is no information, it is difficult even knowingly to choose the right products, the ones you are looking for. I answer Mr Sawicki's questions. That is true, it has been so before that, in total, if you count the farmhouse and farmers' representatives, you had the majority in the committees, while this change is also the result of an appeal, the conclusions coming to the ministry from agricultural backgrounds, so that the influence and decision are mainly on the side of farmers, how the funds from promotion funds are to be used, and this is to improve the effects of this promotion, because there is always so much to be done. In terms of integrated promotion, we are already able to have the first effects of increasing the number of promotions that you have already mentioned in your speech, so building national stands wherever it is possible at the fair, encouraging entrepreneurs to promote their products together, even though they compete on the domestic market to create a single national stand outside the borders. The effects are already there, but also a draft strategy for food promotion has been developed in the Ministry for the coming years. It is the subject of internal arrangements at the moment. We will want to join forces of both state institutions and funds of funds, which are non-public funds, and join forces of entrepreneurs and thus introduce one nationwide strategy to promote Polish food, bearing in mind that this promotion under this law is to be aimed at products originating from Polish raw materials. So when it comes to what one Member said, it is impossible to agree that we do not promote Polish food. If someone wants to benefit from the promotion of products of their own company as part of the program he will present, he must ensure that the products come from Polish raw materials. This is why we should sell as many products as possible from Polish farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u335	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Piotr Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to thank all those who actively participated in the debate and the process of the act on promotion funds for our products. I think that thanks to this law, the form of use of promotion funds, the efficiency of using these collected small resources, because the amount of about PLN 50 million per year, will be much, much bigger and it will bring tangible benefits to Polish producers, farmers, but also Polish entrepreneurs, processors, who process good, excellent food in Poland from Polish products. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u337	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws (prints Nos 1109 and 1131). I ask Mr Leszek Galemba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u338	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in relation to the amendment of the law on support for rural development, with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture held its meeting on 13 December. She considered the Senate's amendments, which the Senate had tabled in the number of three. The Committee on Agriculture has given a positive opinion and agrees to the adoption by the High House of these amendments and at the same time to the entire law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u339	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u340	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club has a position similar to that of the Committee on Agriculture - it supports the Senate's amendments, agrees, and at the same time asks the High House to adopt these amendments and the entire bill. The amendments aim to speed up and implement the provisions that will aim to improve the implementation of all implementing rules and the use of European Union funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u341	Thank you. Mr Leszek Korzeniowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's just like my friend. On behalf of the Civic Platform, we will vote in favour of these three amendments, although, returning to Amendment 1, I think it is a bit camouflaged here, as we discussed in the Committee on Agriculture during the discussion on this point, slow activity in the style of the liquidation of the Agricultural Market Agency. I think it's a matter of saying it, not hiding it, and under the pretense of some kind of amendment, to put it in that way. So that, as I said, the Platform will vote in favour of these three amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u343	Thank you. Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the amendments tabled by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the Act amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 This amendment to the Law, known as the Law on the Implementation of Rural Development 2014, is the result of the revision of the Rural Development Programme for 2014 and 2020, and the proposed amendments to the Act will in particular make it possible to simplify the procedures for beneficiaries of the individual support instruments in the framework of the Instrument for Rural Development 2014. It should also be noted that the amendment of the Act will contribute inter alia. to develop more effectively databases containing multi-annual soil analyses in our country, which will facilitate future evaluation of the effectiveness of rural development measures undertaken in the framework of the 2014-2020 RDPs. In my opinion, the amendments made to the Act by the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland are of a more specific nature and therefore the Kukiz15 club will vote in favour of them and, consequently, in favour of the adoption of the entire Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u345	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a modern position on amendments to the law amending the law on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. The amendment of the law on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 As pointed out in the explanatory memorandum to the draft government amendment, the main objective of the proposed solutions is to ensure the smooth start of the activities of the 2014-2020 RDPs and to make simplifications for those receiving support under this programme and to adapt national solutions to EU regulations. In addition, the aim is to harmonise the rules in order to eliminate gaps and notable doubts so far. The modern one will also support these three Senate amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u347	Thank you. Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the amendments are specific and are not subject to further discussion and analysis. However, it remains to wish the current majority of the United Right to speed up the implementation of RDP measures, because indeed everyone, not only farmers but also entrepreneurs, is waiting for this. I hope that a shorter discussion on this point will contribute to the fact that reflectively and efficiently, including in action, the resort will deal with the implementation and mobilisation of funds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u349	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The main amendment, which prejudices that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will be responsible for implementing the cooperation programme, seems reasonable. This is the main agency implementing the programs. I have a question about another part of the RDP and the support of rural areas from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, namely the part which was passed on 10 years ago to local governments of voivodships. The so-called outsourcing was supposed to be an incentive for the regional authorities, which serve several activities, to encourage more cohesion policy funds available to regional authorities to be transferred to rural development. It's different. In some voivodships it is an important contribution to regional operational programmes, in others it is an insignificant share, rather cosmetic. This also requires better cooperation with regional governments to make them aware that the responsibility lies not only with the Minister of Agriculture and the Government, but also with regional authorities. I am interested in a brief assessment of the Minister's assessment of how cooperation with voivodship authorities is looking in relation to these actions which have been passed on. I'm not expecting an answer right now, because I'm rather interested in an in-depth response. I will ask the Minister to give me such an answer in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u352	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to refer here to the Minister's previous statement, because you concluded by saying that it is not true that we will not promote foreign products, that the processor will have to prove that he is using Polish products. My question is: Do we not allow 25% use of foreign products: Spanish, Greek, Tunisian or any other, i.e. we will promote Polish-Spanish, Polish-Greek, Polish-Thailand products? So that's one thing. The second thing is also connected with whether there is a mechanism in the Promotion Funds Act that would promote the use of these funds by Polish companies, or whether all companies can benefit from this fund regardless of their capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u353	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u354	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Don't you think it's a violation of the Constitution and an unfair failure to allow individuals outside of individual farmers to enter different types of RDPs into different kinds of measures? These are the same bets, the same people who work in the field, work with animals, and some are treated like this and others are treated differently. Don't you think that the constitution is being violated, and there's aversion, and it's not enough for those who don't get it? Here's another thing. As Minister, did you apply to the European Union to eliminate in our country activities such as greening, which does not produce in accordance with its purpose, but only makes costs because it is simply about receiving other payments due? It's a loss, it's a loss. We don't have this vegetation in other countries. I just think it should be lifted. Did the Minister, or did the Ministry request that this element of common subsidies be eliminated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u355	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr.Ryszard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the opportunity to provide some information. As regards the amendments that were proposed today in the framework of the contested law - the basic one and the transfer of capacity from the market agency to the restructuring agency - this is an orderly change due to the fact that under the AROW Act, the Rural Development Agency, this function will be performed by the restructuring agency. During calls for action: Cooperation simply cannot be done, because it will further complicate and make it more difficult, messy, it is about moving documents, positions, accreditation and other issues. It's a tidying change. That's the first thing. As for Mr Aichler's questions, my question is: What groups? Which ones are excluded? I just want to remind you that the Rural Development Programme may not be some kind of programme that is aimed at everyone and can provide prosperity for everyone. He is targeted at a select group of people, certain access criteria are defined. We'd have to talk on a case-by-case basis. Generally, we always aim to help and effectively spend these measures so that they effectively improve the competitiveness of agriculture, so that they create new jobs to protect the environment, to support the building of social capital or infrastructure in rural areas. It's the simplest thing I can say. It may always happen that someone is more or less excluded, but that is where the lines are, Mr, the demarking ones, cohesion policy, development policy, the common agricultural policy. There are regional operational programmes and there are other funds. You can talk, I'm asking for specifics, then I'll talk to you about it. Who's excluded? How? What kind of action? There is also one more thing to remember: after all, we do not have 17,2 billion... Just yesterday, we concluded the last meeting of the monitoring committee of the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013, closing the period when there was as much as 17.2 billion available. We have 13.5 billion. So there's a choice for whom to make these funds available so that they can be used as efficiently as possible. You can say that you can give each one after the gold, and you can divide them according to some procedure that will allow you to use effective, deliberate, rational and one that will give some effect. As far as greening is concerned, we understand that this is a big problem, but the most important thing for us is that farmers receive payments and that these funds are not returned to the European Union. First of all, this year, by 30 December, we paid 70% advances. Last year, I remember, in mid-January, one could dream of even a part of this amount being passed on to farmers. We understand these problems. At the moment, a revision of the multiannual financial framework is underway. Commissioner Hogan also identified the possibilities of simplifying and cleaning up, among others. as part of greening. But let me say this, this is spring this year, these are our demands. Of course we agree. These are changes to European law, 1305/2013, and this is the first year of implementation - 2018. So this perspective is clear to us, we are working on it, and here it is agreed that we are looking for good solutions. On the other hand, when it comes to referring to these issues relating to local governments, of course, I will reply in writing. This is also such a good reflection to look at how it is distributed, but let me just add that these are delegated tasks and in the weight we have, the resources are as much as - 15%. 15% The Rural Development Programme is dedicated to funds for local governments, for local action groups. These are activities such as roads, modernisation - roads for the first time - water and sewage, these are actions: Fairs, village renewal - but I will say that this money is not much - and the Leader approach, which has 5%. About how we are working together - we are having a difficult time working together. I'm an object myself... It's about a marshal convention where you can't... Why can't a marshal's representative be invited? You can take certain decisions that are against the truth, false, little of that, rebelling, somehow translating it into emotions in local governments, and it just happens. We're trying to talk to people later, people are starting to wonder what's going on, and it's kind of unacceptable. I left, today we talked in a team, that we would come up with such a proposal to form a team, and I had two such meetings already with representatives of local governments, and today we also analyzed the memo for this purpose, to create a working group - cohesion policy, i.e. Ministry of Development, local governments, Ministry of Agriculture. These activities are really much and work ahead of us more. I wish we could work together better because we're in a wheelchair together. This means that on 31 December, there must be a certain pool of funds available in the Rural Development Programme in the beneficiary accounts. If we don't, we're just gonna have trouble accepting this amount. And that's the biggest threat. Therefore, our strenuous efforts to motivate and mobilise the local government to work together. The help of KSOW, or technical assistance, has been arranged, also according to certain rules, and we have developed this in the spring. Cooperation is difficult. I think there are too many political things going on out there that do not make it easier for us, but we will be determined to carry out these actions and not to lose any of the money available within the European Union. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Minister, I'll put my question in writing. Let me write it in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u357	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present my position on the Commission's report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 At its meeting, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered all the amendments of the Senate to be valid. An important change in my view is the establishment of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as an implementing entity for the activities of Mon. Cooperation included in the framework of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. The Senate amendment eliminates the doubts raised by the solutions set out in the original bill. The Senators stressed that the implementing entity should be an entity with appropriate experience in the implementation of projects implemented by the European Union, and that they justified the proposed amendment. We fully agree that such a change is rational and extremely important. As at the earlier stages, the Free and Solidarni Circle legislative square will support the bill by amendments of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u359	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of item 37 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate's resolution on the Act against unfair exploitation of contractual advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products (prints Nos 1110 and 1134). I ask Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u360	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the Senate's resolution on the Act against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. On 7 December 2016, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. The Joint Committees: Economics and Development and Agriculture and Rural Development considered the amendments of the Senate on 14 December 2016. These amendments were seven. The joint committees recommend their adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u361	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to present the opinion of the Law and Justice Club on the law on combating unfair competition in contract leadership. This is an important bill. The Senate's amendments put it in order and it's hard to question. Of course, we will support these amendments, just as we will support the entire bill. This is, as I said, an important law that greatly strengthens the position of agricultural producers in the chain from field to table, introducing a real tool in the form of the UOKiK's capabilities to eliminate those advantages that have so far been impunity, and those methods and mechanisms that have been impunity, both from processors and large commercial networks. Of course, we are not quite sure how widely this law will apply, how many potential victims will want to use it, whether its preventive action, its presence will be preventive enough that there will not be too many examples of cheating suppliers. We do not know, but this law is undoubtedly needed, because by introducing this additional tool, we will be able to eliminate at least some of the prohibited, bad, harmful agricultural producers practices that we have also encountered in recent years. Sometimes the amount of the minimum amount which entitles you to run the UOKiK procedure is contested. This will also be the subject of observation, because maybe this amount should be less. But the point is that agricultural producers can first of all benefit from this, for which the loss of a significant part of annual sales is actually an element leading to the bankruptcy of the farm. I am also afraid that if this amount was definitely much lower than proposed in the Act, then the endless range of interventions could block the OOKiK and lead to the analysis of this whole mechanism. So let's give this bill a chance. The Law and Justice Club will, of course, support this bill. We also encourage other clubs to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u363	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to present a position on the Act against unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products. The Senate has introduced seven amendments to this bill, the bill, as I said in the previous parliamentary debate, promising well. Unfortunately, the good intentions of hell were paved. These amendments do not really make any significant changes to this law. I'm a little disappointed, gentlemen and ladies. You announced that you would use the amendments and comments made during the parliamentary debate by opposition clubs, including by me, by the Civic Platform, but I see that you do not want to improve the bill which could actually be useful in the area of the Republic of Poland when it comes to contracting sales. Of course, the Civic Platform Club will support these amendments, but we have not changed our mind. There will be no vote on the entire bill, Mr Ardanowski. We have already voted on this, and now we will only vote on the amendments themselves. We haven't changed our sentences. The bill isn't well prepared. These amendments slightly improve it, but they do not, as I said, have a significant significance for the entire bill. The Civic Platform Club will support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u366	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I am pleased to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. The Act is very important and necessary for both suppliers and buyers of agricultural products. They are organized by mutual relations, seeking to balance the position of operators at each stage of the food supply chain. The amendments tabled in the Senate clarify the law, which is why I will refer to the whole law. This law grants tools to protect both sides of the agreement because fraud occurs on one side and on the other. I was surprised by the strong opposition to the bill presented by supermarkets and large commercial networks. The bill was threatened to force companies to search for trading partners outside our country to avoid the risk of being punished for unfair exploitation of the contract advantage. At the stage of my work in committee, I tabled amendments aimed at equal treatment between the two parties as regards the burden of any penalty which has not been accepted by Members. Large entities remain privileged. The intriguing struggle for the absence of a lower limit of penalties for representatives of commercial networks, unfortunately supported by the government's position, may mean that corporations presume that they will continue to exploit their advantage and act unfairly towards suppliers. Why are you so worried? As long as the networks operate legally, they do not have to fear any sanctions. It's time to stop favoring and indulging. Although the bill is a step in the right direction, unfortunately it is too conservative. We can't celebrate her success for now. We need a comprehensive law, actually a package of laws that will create favourable conditions for the development of agricultural production, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises. They are the driving force of the Polish economy. I believe that we should help the government to prepare comprehensive solutions for agriculture next year. Polish agriculture is waiting for such solutions. Of course, the amendments will be accepted by Kukiz15. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u367	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern. There is no Member. Or are you Eva Lieder from Modern? There isn't any either. In that case, I invite Mr Marek Sawicki from the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is one of those introduced laws which, of course, give hope, but it will - I would not want to do it, and so will - another ineffective act, like the Commercial Tax Act, which gave the traders a pretext to force suppliers to lower prices, change supply conditions, raise prices, earn a dozen billion. In fact, it turns out we don't have that commercial tax. The legal solutions to which Mr Sachajko approaches with great hope, under the conditions of fragmented agricultural production in Poland, under the conditions of weak producer organisations, under conditions that are still still emerging, no legal solutions and no bans on strong trade will change much, because groups of lawyers, trade specialists will always find ways to solve them. A few years ago, when the first processes for imposing penalties on the network for shelves fees began, a certain space was created to discuss and seek agreement, a kind of code of good commercial practices. And in the process of finalising this work with the various groups of agricultural producers, several important heads of organisations, companies trading with networks have flourished in this way: what are you interfering with, since we are dealing well with these networks, they pay us in time and we can pay farmers on time. And the processors themselves then closed the way to agreement, to concessions also from commercial networks. This is a very difficult problem, which we will not solve by this law, because if well-organized Danish agriculture, where there is already only one cooperative with six or seven cooperatives externally, representing all these farmers outside also in this great European competition, today the world is not an important position, force, although of course it has a better bargaining card than Polish farmers, so if we do not do our best, perhaps also money, in terms of better organisation of farmers... Maybe it's time to convince each other and also the Ministry of Finance that cooperatives are not double. [[♪ The bell ♪]] taxed in order to give way to this organization of processing and trade...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u369	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u370	...from ad hoc budgetary revenues. Maybe it'll just strengthen the position of farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u371	Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. The aim of the Act is to eliminate in practice the supply of agricultural raw materials and food from unfair commercial practices. And it's the right thing to do. The pressure exerted by operators having a dominant position on the market towards the lowest possible price from the buyer may affect the quality of the food products offered to the customer. Agricultural producers and processors of agricultural products are often forced to replace good quality raw materials with worse ones as a result of pressure. This is detrimental to consumers. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle voted in favour of this law at third reading in the High House, and so they will vote now. We consider it reasonable for the Senate to amend and welcome the Senate's assessment of the intention of the legislator to include money penalties. It will prevent the person to whom the penalty will be imposed from tampering with the contracts in order to affect the size of the penalty. The penalty will have to be paid in the amount resulting from the contract originally concluded and the new contract itself will remain outside the scope of the penalty. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to point out that the bill is preventive in nature and does not serve to create a tool for filling the cash register. The Act aims to prevent unfair practices and to create causes for good trade relations. In order to do so, the threat of severe punishment must be real and leave no possibility of legal runways in order to avoid it. A law against unfair practices in the marketing of agricultural and food products should be adopted as soon as possible. The Circle of the Free and Solidarni Members will support the bill, along with the amendment adopted by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u373	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am more optimistic than Mr Sawicki on the positive effects of this law, although I share some concerns about the ways in which it is introduced and enforced. She's supposed to be preventive in the first place. I would like never the penalties that are written there to be applied to simply eliminate the possibility of cheating farmers, to create from the unfair functioning of even some companies' development strategies. This also applies to parts of commercial networks. This legislation will encourage farmers to organise themselves in producer groups to form economic organisations, giving them a greater opportunity to defend themselves, because it will be easier for these farmers to defend themselves against the unfair practices of the advantages we have seen so far on the market. I would like to appeal to industry and agricultural organisations, above all, to those who have certain opportunities, including organisational and legal assistance, so that they look very closely at this law and provide the necessary assistance when the need arises. This is also an appeal to the agricultural chambers. When I created this institution, I also made sure that agricultural chambers had their chambers of attorneys to help farmers in such crisis situations. I would like to make the most of this law, but unfortunately the experience of recent years shows that this type of mechanism is necessary. That's why I supported, our club supported this bill and also those Senate amendments that sort things out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is to be taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u375	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u376	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law should be written in such a way as to include mechanisms in order to involve officials to a minimum. We should trust citizens as well as market players. My question is whether it is true that the Act lacks such a mechanism as to automatically waive punishment when both parties agree, colloquially speaking, and there will no longer be unfair use of practices, so that the UOKiK will refrain from imposing a penalty, but that it will work from the machine when two parties agree earlier. The second question relates to the lower limit of punishment. The point is that the bill lacks a lower limit of punishment, whatever it is, so again the official will decide how much, and what amount of punishment will be applied to the group as well as to the farmer. Do we not sometimes put too much responsibility or decision-making in the hands of the office, which can punish both the company and the farmer with a similar penalty, let's say, 5 or 10,000.? It's just that it's gonna be nothing for the company, and it could be a lot for the farmer. Why isn't it just equal for everyone, 0.1%? turnover, 0,5% But for everyone to feel the same pain? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u377	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! First of all, as rapporteur, I would like to thank you for your work, both earlier when this law was being examined, for working in the subcommittee, but especially for this last stage, namely the examination of the Senate's amendments. I would like to thank all the Members because all the parliamentary clubs have spoken about the need for this law. There have been discussions about the particular provisions, the paragraphs, but everyone has made it clear that such a law should be. Those institutions that participated in the meetings of both the subcommittee and the committees also expressed the need for the law to enter into force in order to prevent unfair practices in the trade in agri-food products. It is known that the direct contractor of this law will be the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, but hopefully as little as possible should be intervened and that there should be as little notification to that office as possible. Let us act this law, let it enter into force. If necessary, I think that here and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and we as Members are able to clarify those provisions that already exist. So once again, thank you all very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u379	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The questions raised a problem concerning the absence of a mechanism for withdrawal from the penalty and the absence of a lower limit of the penalty. It should be borne in mind that the Act states that, in the event of infringement of its provisions, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection is the institution which initiates proceedings of its own motion, so that these are proceedings before a specialised institution, although an office, but specialised in dealing with such problems, with a huge experience of protecting competition and consumers in the field of economic activity and functioning for years. The records are similar to those used in those mechanisms and have worked well in practice, but it must also be borne in mind that the institution's activities are subject to judicial review because it is possible to refer to the court from the decision and there is a final determination as to whether the penalty imposed or whether the mechanism applied is appropriate or not. So this is not going to be any kind of official self-control, because judicial review, it seems, is the farthest that goes in this case. I also wanted to thank you because today we are finishing work on a package of several laws that we have talked about recently. Thank you for this support for government projects coming from all sides of this room. The subject matter of this law and of those mentioned earlier is to put the situation in order to strengthen the position of farmers in Poland in the supply chain of agri-food products, including what is most important and what the European Commission points out, because Poland has been defined as a country in which the situation in this area is one of the worst. This is also the case with the European Commission's work, which is currently being considered in its position on the development of such mechanisms at EU level, as they would further strengthen these activities. So I am convinced that this package of laws, and especially this law, will strengthen the position of farmers, because we have not mentioned this, but there have also been changes in these records in another law which impose criminal sanctions, this time in the form of a financial penalty, an obligation for buyers to conclude contracts for agricultural products. So these measures together should lead to a stronger position indeed for farmers. I would also like to say, in response to the problem raised by the Member, that it is important for farmers and good news that today the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers has adopted a law on farmers' cooperatives, in which we implement the ideas that you have spoken about, so exemption from taxes of this type of cooperative. This is one of the incentives for farmers to actually strengthen their position by combining and acting together, because no law will replace the actual negotiating power of farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u381	Thank you. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u382	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In my earlier speech, I thanked the Members. I would also like to thank farmers, social organisations, trade representatives who participated in committee meetings, subcommittees, joint Commissions: Agriculture and Rural Development and Economics and Development. I would like to thank the Ministry at the hands of Minister Jack Bogucki, and thank the workers and all the countries who have contributed to the fact that this law will serve everyone well and prevent unfair practices in the trade in agri-food products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u383	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 20. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 03 hours 20 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 98th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This is print number 1161. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for a second reading of the project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft Parliamentary Law amending the Nature Conservation Act and some other laws, print Nos 1143 and 1148, will want to raise its hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 236 voted against - 173, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 47 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 98th anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising (prints Nos 1156 and 1158). Please take the floor of the committee rapporteur, Mrs Joanna Lichocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the celebration of the 98th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising. The author and author of the draft resolution is Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Member of Law and Justice from Wielkopolska. [[Applause]] [[There is a Greater Poland Uprising, of course.]] The Committee on Culture and Media adopted this proposal unanimously after first reading and considering the draft at its meeting on 15 December 2016 and asks unanimously that the High Sejm adopt this resolution. [[Is there a Smolensk appeal in its contents?]] And here's what it says: [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising. The Wielkopolska Uprising 1918-1919 is an exceptional event against the backdrop of the Polish national uprisings. Its success brought freedom to the Wielkopolskas and contributed to the consolidation of independence and the establishment of the western border of the Republic of Poland reborn after 123 years of captivity. The uprising was preceded by many months of political procedures and organizational and military preparations of Polish society in the Prussian partition. The arrival of Ignacy Jan Paderewski to Poznań on 26 December 1918 met with enthusiastic reception of Polish residents. The next day the fights broke out, which in a short time led to the liberation of almost all of Poznań. The popular, popular break was based on the excellent organization of the Polish society, the efficiency of civil and military authorities, joint and several cooperation of all social groups. At the head of the Polish movement was the District of the General Council of the People's Republic of Poland, which included, among others, Fr. Stanisław Adamski and Wojciech Korfanty. Insurgent troops were commanded by Major Stanisław Taczak and then General Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki, organizer of the Wielkopolska Army. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising reminds of the political maturity and dedication of Poles. The sacrificial struggle for the Independent is worthy of commemoration. Glory be to the Winners! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u385	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much to the House. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. The question is asked by Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, the Kukiz club15. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u386	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Poselski Kukiz Club15 is aware of the important anniversary of Poland's 100th anniversary of regaining independence, and in our opinion it should be primarily the citizens' celebrations which will unite so much today a divided nation. It must be a bottom-up civic celebration. On the other hand, I have a question for applicants who ask to reject the project at first reading: In whose interest are you acting, why do you continue to heat this Polish-Polish war, which is now on the streets? It continues, and we must finally unite and reconcile the nation, not this war to heat and turn the atmosphere on the streets. [[Applause]] Because it is certainly not in the interest of the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Adam!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u387	Thank you. Of course, Mr President, it is difficult for me to accept your question, because the representative of the applicant for the bill, the President of Poland, is present here in the Chamber the head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Sadurska. The question is asked by Mr Kurzepa, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u388	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are walking around the majesty of the Republic of Poland and its first citizen's proposal. I assume that the High House will accept this proposal with great hospitality and kindness, because it seems that the people expect us to have a community. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask the question: Should the High House turn against this initiative, will the President go with the nation? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What?]] [[But which one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u389	Thank you. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u390	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We believe this is a wonderful act of the President. Indeed, we are talking about the most important Polish holiday. After 123 years Poland regained independence. As young people, relatively young, we cannot imagine how difficult it was to live without our own country, without our homeland. So that, in this sense, the President's initiative is certainly right. One might wonder if a special committee is needed to celebrate these celebrations. Perhaps we could just sit down and organize them together. But if this is the idea of a joint committee, we as Modern will support it or we will not vote against it. On this occasion, however, it is good to point out that it is not only worth it since the big bell that the President connects us, but also every day. It seems to us as modern, that the President is paying attention to one side of the political scene, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Except for the other one. We also appeal to see on a daily basis that Poland is long. And we're counting on the President to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u391	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u392	... he will be president of all Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u393	The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we should celebrate the 100th anniversary of independence dignifiedly and collectively, as it was at this important moment, appreciating what is most important in our history: the sense of building a community under the patronage of the President, who should represent the whole society, the whole nation, and for that is responsible. But it is also a test of the credibility of this initiative, because since it is to be a year of the community - and we talked about it during the debate, as the Civic Platform Club, we asked this question - whether the composition of this committee, which is to be a joint committee and our common experience of building free and democratic Poland after 1989, may include not only representatives of political parties, but also living presidents, who certainly also contribute with their experience. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the construction of free and independent [[Applause]] Did they bring the Republic? Can the Minister respond to this request? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u395	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. [[The Minister wanted an answer.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 1093, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 15 votes against 413 and 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred it to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. We return to the examination of point 43 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the law on entitlement to reduced travel by means of public collective transport and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no 1124. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank the President of the Republic for this initiative. Contrary to appearances, it is not just a law dealing with reliefs for Polish children, it is a law that builds a community, a Polish community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u397	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1124, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 434, against - 1, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on the right to reduced travel by means of public collective transport and certain other laws. We would like to return to the discussion of item 40 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of 300th Anniversary Coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1142. The question is asked by Members. Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz.15. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that the Polish people took Jasna Góra vows, in which they fell, among others. such words: We promise you with our eyes stuck in the manger of Bethlehem, that from now on we will all stand watch over the awakening of life. We will fight to protect every child and every cradle as bravely as our fathers fought for the existence and freedom of the Nation, paying richly with their own blood. We are willing to suffer death rather than death to the helpless. We will consider the gift of life to be the greatest grace of the Father of All Life and the most precious treasure of the Nation. Queen of Poland - we promise! [[We promise.]] How, then, the text of the submitted Jasna Góra vows and the text of the resolution, which we are about to adopt, has to do with how the Polish Sejm behaved this year, rejecting [[♪ The bell ♪]] A project that protects every child you conceive? I hope that in 2017 ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u399	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u400	...make the right decision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u401	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are all aware of the role that the image of Our Lady of Częstochowa played in Poland's history. It is the goal of pilgrimages and prayers of many Poles. We have no doubt that on 8 September 2017, the anniversary of the Coronation of the Picture of Our Lady of Czestochowa, Queen of Poland, the crowns of Pope Clement XI should be celebrated exceptionally and solemnly. But let us also remember - and we are proud of it - that Poland has been the homeland of people of different denominations and examples of tolerance for centuries. Modern always says... [[For centuries.]] ...to the clear, friendly separation of the Church from the state. We therefore believe that we should not adopt this resolution by acclamation. We should leave the decision to everyone in the vote - according to his beliefs and the world view. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The statements shall be completed at the end of the day.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u403	Thank you, sir. Actually, that's what we're gonna do. At the moment, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform. [[Tragedy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u404	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Civic Platform Club did not participate in the debate that took place yesterday, late hours. We didn't take part because... [[You were in a meeting with Wałęsa.]] ...if applicants wanted so much to introduce another, seventh, probably already patronage over 2017, then perhaps they should have better prepared this project, better prepared and followed the rules. This draft resolution was influenced by the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which gives the Marshal of the Sejm the right to submit additional ideas, apart from deadlines. [[That's right.]] It seems that the 300th anniversary of the Coronation of the Picture of Our Lady of Częstochowa is or was it a quite famous fact. It wasn't at the right time. So I repeat, we did not take part in this debate. That's what we're gonna do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this vote. Of course, there is absolutely free will here, everyone will vote as he wishes, but the truth is, as it was prepared, so we want to end it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u405	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are voices that the celebration of the 300th anniversary of the Coronation of the Picture of Our Lady of Częstochowa can in any way offend unbelievers, atheists or people of other religions, is just as true as the statement that the celebration of the Greater Poland Uprising offends Silesians, inhabitants of Mazowsze, Lubelszczyzna or Pomerania. This has nothing to do with it and nothing to do with it. [[The leader of Wielkopolska was Silesian. Korfanty was a Silesian.]] But, the High Sejm, the question to the applicants is as follows: Is it because the resolution at the very end reads: The image of the God-parent on Jasna Góra - honored for more than 600 years - is one of the most important religious and material national treasures. Jasna Góra, as the spiritual capital of Poland, is the main center of this cult and pilgrimage on Polish soil, talking about religious, but also social, patriotic and cultural aspects - isn't it worth it that the High House in 2017 would consider placing this image of Jasna Góra Queen and Hetmanka in the territory of the Polish Sejm? Isn't this a good time for this image to appear in the Parliament of the Republic? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[I'm in.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u407	There you go. [[Let's bring this painting from Czestochowa here.]] I will exempt the applicant's representative from answering this question because it is not the applicant's, this decision does not belong to the applicant's draft resolution. [[More like a marshal.]] Mrs Joan Lichocka, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u408	I wanted to ask the rapporteur a question. Is it true that we were sitting during the day, not at any late time, as Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasinska says... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: I said nothing of the kind.]] ...and that was at the exact time when the Members of the Civic Platform were in a meeting with Lech Wałęsa? [[Applause]] [[The truth is!]] Therefore, not one of their representatives has found time for the meeting of the cultural committee on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But you're lying! What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u409	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Lech Wałęsa! Lech Wałęsa! Lech Wałęsa!]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Bolek! Bolek! Bolek!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Peterowicz! Peters! Peters!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on one of the most important resolutions. Let's be serious. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 1142, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. The vote was 349, against - 30, with 24 Members holding back. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of 300th anniversary Coronation of the Picture of Our Lady of Czestochowa. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the death of the Polish Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1123. The question is raised by Members. Member Michał Stasiński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u410	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I am surprised that you are introducing this kind of resolution to the Sejm. This character is not worthy to be honored by such a resolution. [[Applause]] In the 1920 defence war there were much more prominent commanders, there was General Rozwadowski at the level of the staff, there was General Sosnkowski, the later chief general. We should remember about the Rydzu-Śmigły Marshal that he did not prepare Poland for the defence war in 1939... [[Voice from the room: I escaped.]] ...leaded in a tragic and fatal way, led to the defeat of the battle of Bzura, which was the only act of attack in this war... [[Specialist.]] ...he escaped on September 17th, crossing the eastern border of the Republic of Poland... [[What does he know about this?]] ...and gave a shameful order not to fight the Soviets. [[Applause]] In the second half of the 1930s, he established a system based on the cult of the individual. And that might bother us, because the desire to celebrate this kind of person by the PiS can be a bad fortune for our present. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u411	Please. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u412	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is not about what time the committee considered these projects, it is about when they were read in the plenary room. And that's what I was referring to. [[But it's not about that anymore.]] Unfortunately, I had to explain to Mrs Lichocka. As for this resolution, the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the death of the Polish Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz, I would like to say that it was a project that supposedly sailed from the Sejm Bureau. There was no consent to the acclamation. There were a lot of criticisms during yesterday's debate, because it is very ambiguous. Yesterday I asked if there was any point in worshiping a special resolution a historical figure well known, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when there are such significant differences and reservations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u413	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u414	And I can only repeat that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u415	Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Polish history there are certainly many heroes whose memory is to be worshiped, but Edward Rydz-Śmigły does not belong to this group. [[Applause]] Captain's off the ship last. This beautiful and noble principle, unfortunately, of your hero, doesn't apply to... [[Voice from the room: What about Santa Claus?]] ...for not like the captain, but as the rat ran away, [[Applause]] when thousands of Polish soldiers spilled blood on two fronts - western and eastern. Is that the kind of hero you want to worship? Today, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party claims that not a resolution, but a minute of silence and prayer belong to this tragic figure of Polish history. [[Applause]] [[Green flags.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u417	Thank you. I would just like to point out to you that it is not appropriate to use such words here... [[Voice from the room: What kind of voices?]] ...the pejoratives you used here. [[Voice from the room: The real ones.]] [[There's freedom of speech.]] [[The voice from the hall: In the Seym there is, he has the right.]] Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem, Mr. Marshal, is that actually historians agree on chopper-Rydz. At best, they give him an assessment of bmw - passive, mediocre, but faithful. Such an average megalomaniac man, who was co-responsible for the catastrophe of the Polish state, was Śmigły-Rydz. And this is a profound contradiction that first we worship the Greater Poland Uprising, an example of good organization, an example of victory, an example of wisdom, political responsibility, an example of wise patriotism, and, on the other hand, we are to adopt a resolution on Świgły-Rydz, which, as was said here, has escaped... [[Socialist.]] ...who gave the order - and it's PiS who wants to worship him - not fight the Bolsheviks. That's what Blade-Ridz did, among other things. to the fact that there was illegal internment, [[Applause]] that Polish soldiers had no rights, just like prisoners of war. Śmigły-Rydz co-responsible for the catastrophe of the Polish state in 1939. To worship such a character is to worship defeat, and we should not worship defeats. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u419	Mr Kaminski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor. I only ask the Member to ask a question, because here...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u420	Yes, Mr. Marshal, let me ask you a question, because the teaching of the parliamentarianism of your Marshal is deeply etched in my heart. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And I ask the questions, Mr. Marshal. I ask the rapporteur a question: What is the punishment of the Polish rules for desertion from the battlefield today, and what was the penalty of the same provisions for desertion from the battlefield in 1939? What if the answer to that is that such punishment is the death penalty? Because in 1939 the privates who had been deserted from the battlefield were executed, and today we will honor the deserter from the battlefield who left his fighting armies. [[Applause]] Gentlemen and ladies, I think there is another hero of the Second Republic, who is much more suited to you. It's Biernacki Kostek. [[Bravo!]] Really, Kostek-Biernacki - much better character. [[Applause]] He showed how things work and how people talk to opposition. [[Applause]] [[He ran away, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u421	Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question. The question is: What are the circumstances of the death of the chopper-Ryd called the marshal? Is it true that Blade-Rydz came back to the country trying to make a deal with the Third German Reich? [[Really, don't exaggerate.]] Is it true that Blade-Rydz had an agreement with the Third German Reich in mind? The circumstances of his death are still unclear today, because he may have been executed on him for this attempt to collaborate. [[Applause]] I'm asking you to clarify this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This isn't a historical seminar.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u423	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reporters. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 1123, would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[Hands fall off.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 175 voted against - 207, with 25 abstentions. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] I state that the Sejm has not adopted a resolution. [[Part of the members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, the Kukiz Poselski Club15 and the Modern Posel Club gets up, applause, bell]] We are returning to the review of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1125-A. I would like to ask Maria Zuba to submit an additional report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: Second time!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Calm down, please. [[Voice from O.R.: 3rd!]] Have you finished your envoy? I have already called on the Member a moment earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the bill amending the act on gambling and some other laws, a motion for rejection of this law was received and seven amendments were received. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Today, the Public Finance Commission has examined the proposal. As a result of the vote, it has issued a negative opinion on the application for rejection of this law and recommends that the High House also reject this proposal. In addition, the first two amendments, Amendments 1 and 2, the Finance Committee has given a negative opinion and recommends that you reject them. On the other hand, amendments 3 to 7 gave a positive opinion and recommend that you adopt these amendments. The Public Finance Commission also recommends the adoption of the entire law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u425	Please. As we have heard, the committee has examined the proposals, including the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. We'll start with him. The question is raised by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, club Kuzkiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question. Is it possible that a state monopoly on one-armed bandits is being introduced in a country that wants to build capitalism? Monopoly, which has nothing to do with competition, nothing to do with the market economy, which is going to cost more than PLN 5 billion, and it will be from the pocket of the Polish citizen, the Polish citizen will finance or co-finance hard gambling. A thing that hurts him, that doesn't help him at all, and that he's gonna pay heavy taxes on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u427	Please. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law, as the previous speaker said, on the one hand introduces a monopoly on this gambling which is most addictive, i.e. the game on slot machines, on the other hand introduces a monopoly of the state to this part of the gambling. It is hard to resist the impression that the purpose of the Act is purely fiscal, because the state itself, according to various estimates, said that it would give the state budget between PLN 15 and PLN 24 billion. You also write in the explanatory memorandum of this law that this gambling is most addictive. So you follow the principle: no money stinks. Why? Why are you willing to expose Poles to this disease in the 21st century for a fiscal purpose? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u429	Thank you. We will now vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. I would remind you that the committee requests that the second reading request be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 189 voted against - 246, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests from 1 to 12 and amendments from 1 to 7 were submitted to Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the act on gambling. In minority applications from 1 to 6 applicants propose, among other things, that the activity in the field of games on slots outside the casino may be performed after obtaining permission for the slot dealership. We will vote on these proposals together. The question is asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that these six amendments, which we are now going to vote together, will restore competition, for which authorisations are obviously required, but still competition in this market? If already this evil, which is gambling, must exist in Poland, let this be done by specialised private entities that will compete with each other, let it not be a state monopoly, which will be inefficient, which will be very expensive, which will generate at the entrance of 5 billion PLN from the taxpayer's pocket. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u431	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 1 to 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 191 voted against - 246, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the seventh majority proposal to the article. Point 17 of the Act proposes that the entry in the register of domains for offering gambling does not comply with the law by decision. The question is raised by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that if we enter this entry by decision, the one who will be included on this list will be able to appeal against this decision, and if it is as you propose, there will be no one to whom, where to appeal in this case? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u433	If you're asking me, I'm gonna have to ask... Because you asked me? [[Is that true? That's what I said. But it's for the applicant, not your marshal.]] I'm going to have to ask the finance minister Wiesław Janczyk to deliver me in response. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u434	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I wanted to bring down the wrong amount of 5 billion here. I don't know how she was calculated. [[Not about that.]] That would mean that one slot machine, which will install a monopoly, would have to cost about 140 grand. zł. There is no such amount for this type of equipment, probably here the Member was mistaken for one row of magnitude. In addition, the entity which will perform services in this respect under this law will be able to rent, lease, or purchase these equipment. This is one dementi about the words of my previous speaker. And the second point - the action of displaying websites providing the possibility of illegal gambling will be a material and technical activity from which the appeal will serve. The decision will be taken by the Minister of Finance and this decision may be contested by the Provincial Administrative Court or the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u435	Mr Wójcikowski is reporting for correction, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If we're counting, it's 60,000. Slots times 30,000. zloty is 1.8 billion - the machines themselves, not to mention the costs remaining, indirect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u437	Well, I can take this as a form of correcting the misunderstood statements of the Member. [[Time's running out.]] In that case... Mr Nitras is once again a heads-up. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Oh, you don't like Marshal Nitras, oh, you don't.]] [[Applause]] Mr President, yesterday you crossed the rules of procedure. But I'm paying attention to you not screaming and joking, so to speak. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[That's character, Marshal.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 184 votes against - 248 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 8th minority proposal to Article. Point 17 of the applicants propose that the blocking of illegal gambling sites should be carried out on a fee basis. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rapporteur or the Minister - if you would like to choose. Is it true, ladies and gentlemen, that the blocking of illegal gambling sites, which will take place if we adopt this law, is to be carried out free of charge? And since there are no free lunches, as Milton Friedman said, so they will pay telecoms companies for this, and, of course, they will pass costs on to taxpayers and consumers of telecommunications services. Couldn't the Treasury, since it's already introducing a monopoly on one-armed thugs and this gambling blockade, pay itself for this service and not force citizens to co-pay for these services? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u439	Yes, Minister Janczyk wants to answer that question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker, Mr Wójcikowski, has once again misled the High House. Well, he didn't read with understanding the bill that we're proceeding at the moment, he overdid the number of slots that may be placed in our country by virtue of this law, by 50%. I would suggest that we read this information, sir. On the other hand, as far as the blocking of websites is concerned, it does not require telecommunications operators to make significant investments in infrastructure adjustments and can be carried out as such free of charge. Thank you. [[What's the point?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u441	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 67 voted against - 265, with 102 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 1 point 33 applicants propose that the advertising of bets on which the establishment on the territory of the Republic of Poland has been authorised by the competent minister should be allowed. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u442	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! My question is this. Ladies and gentlemen, gambling isn't just a game, it's a lot of money, too. And the question is a little bit from history: Was there an anti-corruption umbrella used in the work of this law? I'm asking because when we know history, there were people who wrote the law at the cemetery. The question is for you, too. You want to monopolize action by the state, and on the other hand you are against the finance minister, the Polish minister, who is to punish the illegal market, the underground. Question: "Does the Ministry of Finance know how much money is washed as part of gambling, how many foreign companies, from the Union and from the world, treat Poland as an ordorado and a colony for money laundering?" Why do you not allow your blocking of this amendment to act effectively on the grey area? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u443	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 68 votes against 363 and 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Point 33 of the proposal for a new wording of paragraph 1 shall be proposed by the applicants. Article 6 29. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 67 voted against - 368, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Point 35 of the applicants propose, inter alia, that, in certain cases, advertising of bets should be allowed during the transmission of sports events between hours. 6 a 22. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 399 against 4 and 33 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th minority proposal to Article. 1 by adding a new amendment, applicants propose that operators who have online betting without authorisation may obtain an appropriate authorisation upon payment of a specific fee. This proposal is combined with 10. minority request. We will vote on these proposals together. The question is asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask whether, instead of registering prohibited websites, companies that run betting together without the so-called. permits, it is not better to legalize their activities, allow these companies, these establishments to implement into economic life. We propose that they pay the tax for five years back, which will verify the independent auditor so that they can act legally if they pay the tax due for five years. That would make about 500 million, or 0.5 billion profit. Instead of spending some billions - we are arguing with the Minister about how many billions - we could raise 0.5 billion, at least 0.5 billion at the start. Isn't such pro-market solutions better than bans and registers of prohibited websites? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u445	Minister Wiesław Janczyk will answer Mr Janczyk's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the government does not share the view that legal entities that could have acted legally should be legalised and not applied for licences since, for example, 2015, when they could have done so. The Member proposes that, as a model for some European countries, e.g. Romania, benefit from the type of tax absolution and take a specific tribute from the entities, calculated differently. I would like to draw your attention. Only in one detail, that those countries which took such a tribute, by the way very rachitic, small, insignificant, made available the market for slot machines to those who applied for licences. But here we are still facing another dilemma. Namely, the notification made in agreement with the European Commission regarding the government project, which took us 4 months, does not provide for such a mechanism as restricting market access by imposing an additional charge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u447	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 9 and 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 72 votes against 363 and 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 11th and 12th minority proposal to Article. 1 point 58 applicants propose different from the existing rules for calculating the tax base and the gaming tax for betting. We will vote on these proposals together. The question is asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In reply to the Minister, I would like to say that these companies did not apply for legal activity, because the tax treatment that the Polish State is carrying on against these companies is condemning companies legally acting to give customers significantly lower rates in establishments than those companies which may operate on the basis of a different tax system or without a tax system. We propose to change the tax system for these companies from income tax to income tax. We also propose that instead of a player, the payer should be an institution that deals with gambling. Such solutions are in a number of countries. They are a much more effective tool than monopolies, blocking parties or other restrictive measures. Let's go out with free market solutions. Let us not introduce unnecessary restrictions, unnecessary monopolies, which will bring nothing good to the economy in the long term. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u449	I have the impression that you did not refer to the 11th and 12th minority proposals. Minister Janczyk wanted to do it again? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: I don't have to.]] No, there's no need, because it was a little bit, sir, not about that. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 11 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 39 against - 365, 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. Amendments 4 to 7 to Article. 1 applicants propose, inter alia, to set up a Civil Society Development Fund and to make the fund revenue 4% proceeds from the payments in force in games covered by the state monopoly. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is one of the amendments that you read the marshal, and here are some amendments that we will vote together. One of them, among others. decreases from 77% to 75% revenue from the so-called proceeds from the Physical Culture Development Fund subsidies, and another reduces the revenue of the Gambling Fund from 3 to 1%, i.e. the state at the same time increasing the availability of gambling and, on the other hand, reducing the subsidies to the Gambling Problems Fund from 3% to 1%. And there's another line. During the work on this law, doubts arose regarding the constitutionality of one of these amendments, whether it sometimes went beyond the scope of that law at the stage at which it was notified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u451	Thank you. You're also an MP, aren't you? [[Yes.]] Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the question: How do we counteract the effects of gambling when we reduce funds for this purpose, and this, it seems, from 3% to 1%, which is three times? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u453	Thank you. Minister Janczyk answers Mr Janczyk's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say here that the money received by this fund from the amount of 3% The subsidies that the Totalizator Sports allocates to culture, sport and addiction treatment are at the moment in this project and with this amendment adequate to the expenses that this fund has incurred in recent years. In addition, I would like to point out that the fund has accumulated an additional PLN 100 million for addiction treatment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u455	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 4 to 7 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 280 voted against - 152, 4 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Before voting on the whole of the bill, Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, raises the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u456	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Question to the government: Why does the government intend to introduce national gambling? Why does the government make it easier to access gambling online? After all, it is the addiction of Polish families, after all it is the wreaking of the budget of Polish families. Why do you put Polish families at risk? And I'm addressing Minister Janczyk. Minister, I think you have a good memory. What Mr Wójcikowski was talking about. 5 billion PLN of expenditure from the budget for the organisation of national gambling, for the purchase of slot machines by the state. That's what you said at the finance committee meeting: we have a good memory. [[Oh, so do we.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is the worst of the laws, introducing national gambling, and the state should ensure that the budgets of Polish families are not destroyed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what you want to make money on? That's a question for the government. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u457	Thank you, Member. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u458	Ladies and gentlemen! Now, the fundamental question is: Do you want to fight the grey zone by introducing a monopoly on gambling, or do you really want to support it? [[Applause]] Because the best gift you can give a gray area is to introduce an artificial monopoly. The gray zone dreams of nothing but a state-owned, infirm monopoly for which billions will be spent, which can be played with one finger. [[Applause]] Do you not realize that by spending these billions, you can lead them to drown, thrown into the mud, because just as private and illegal gambling flourished, so will it flourish that your tools, even if they are linked to blocking online betting opportunities, will prove completely ineffective and can easily be celebrated today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u459	Please. Another question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u460	Dear Marshal, Dear Members! Dear Messengers! [[Voice from the room: Comrades and Companions!]] I think it's serious because we've come to the climax where we decide on this bill. Whether it's 1 billion for slots, Minister Janczyk, or 5 billion, it doesn't really matter. Today we decide that the state will spend public money on a state monopoly and organise gambling for society. He's gonna make money from this gambling, and he's gonna make money from this gambling, and he's gonna heal. Why? There are countries like Denmark that withdrew from the monopoly in 2012 because it turned out that this is ineffective, that this is a bad organisation of this area. We remember how PO-PSL introduced this law within 7 days, which at that time seemed to be the world's record in speed. [[One night at the cemetery.]] This is the wrong solution, and you need to introduce new ones, but not like this. Do you really want to ask yourself if there are any other needs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u461	Please. At the moment, the Deputy Minister of Finance Wiesław Janczyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I thought Members of the Civic Platform would be quiet tonight, at the moment... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...when the Polish state tries to regulate this area. Maybe I'll just say one thing. Since 2009, we have had this situation: in many small towns, in many small towns there are slot machines and they can be used in an unstoppable way, and the Polish state you left helpless, [[Applause]] Dear Member State, for six long years, in such a way that without notifying a document or part of a document as regards the law on gambling, you have caused opposing court decisions and the need to frequently hand over vending machines. I would also like to talk about the consequences of the lack and carelessness of this regulation. Well, in 2009, when there was a gambling scandal, which you didn't completely solve, you left the problem for many years, in a regulated, documented area, with low and high winning slots, the revenue of the industry amounted to PLN 20 billion, in 2015. - only 10 billion zlotys. This shows how much of the financial flows went into the gray zone. Today, an attempt is made to regulate this area in agreement with the European Commission and on principles such as that in the most transparent countries, e.g. Scandinavian countries. This is something that really needs to be recalled today, it needs to be picked up, and there is one more thing I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen. The Polish state does not introduce a monopoly on gambling, it is a public lie and please withdraw from it. It introduces this monopoly only to part of this market, because it leaves bets, i.e. bookmakers and totalizators for those entrepreneurs who want to operate in this area in agreement with the whole fiscal system of the state, with regulations and regulations. The second point: on commercial terms, as so far, operators will be able to operate in casinos to play. [[But it's registered.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u463	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 1125, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 244 votes against 186 and six Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the law on gambling and certain other laws. We return to the review of item 44 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Budget Act for 2016. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1149. You will be asked questions before the vote. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u464	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! This is a very bad project, an outrageous draft amending the budget, which violates the constitutional principles of parliamentary control over the government, over public expenditure. We have not received an answer as to the important reasons that the government is urging us to take part in this project. We have not heard what expenses will be blocked, whether it is PLN 700 million, PLN 1 billion, PLN 2 billion or PLN 5 billion. In fact, we have not received any answers in this matter. We have not received an answer, which cultural goods will be bought or at least how much money will be spent for this purpose. We can't accept this kind of procession. We haven't heard how much money will be blocked in MON, among others. for the purchase of helicopters. And the scandal in this courtroom is that the minister accuses lobbying and doesn't answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u465	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u466	The Minister of National Defense will not be French...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u467	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u468	...or taught me how to eat with a fork. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u469	Thank you, Member. I would just ask the Member not to continue the discussion. We're in the middle of asking questions before the vote. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u470	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on amending the budget law for the current year, which was introduced in accordance with the rules and principles of parliamentarianism, was intended to cover the transfer of funds so as to be able to purchase the famous Czartoryski collection. [[There's enough for a caterpillar, too.]] Meanwhile, it turns out that as usual, you had to make a change in order to spoil more. You expect the Sejm, on behalf of its citizens, to issue a bill to the government in Blanco for the Material Reserve Agency and the Enterprise Restructuring Fund. [[For the cattle in the pasture.]] I would like to remind you that last year the agency bought coal for coal in breach of its principles, and the privatisation money financed the activities of public television, also not in accordance with its basic tasks. It is therefore confirmed, since today we have to finance these places, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you spent money that wasn't there again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u471	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u472	Stop doing that. [[Applause]] [[That's good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u473	I would like to inform the Member and the High House that the work on the bill has been carried out in accordance with the rules of procedure, inter alia. on the basis of Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1149, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 228 voted against - 175, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Budget Act for 2016. We are returning to the examination of item 45 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1150-A. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u474	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The additional report of the Public Finance Commission of 15 December 2016 concerns the amendments submitted at the time of the second reading of this project, the Government's draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016 (Prints 1130 and 1150). Two amendments have been tabled, which have been negatively assessed. The Commission requests their rejection and recommends that the High House adopt a draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u475	Thank you, sir. We will vote on the amendments first. Both amendments were tabled to the Article. 18a Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete it in paragraph 1. Point 2 (3). The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. You're asking questions, Mr. Messengers. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u476	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! As your marshal says, we are acting according to the rules of procedure, unfortunately in this case. We do not act in accordance with the Constitution because Parliament does not know to block what expenditure is involved. It is also not true what Minister Janczyk said about the gambling bill. Minister, that's when we sealed the gambling, and you say 60,000. The vending machines are somewhere in humans. What did you do last year? [[Applause]] Why didn't you try to fight it? You admit your failure. One more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not know how much expenditure will be blocked, we do not know how much expenditure will be blocked by Minister MON, we do not know if there will be a purchase of helicopters, and military helicopters are very much needed by the Polish army. These questions should therefore be answered. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There was no answer in the whole process.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u477	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u478	We expect an answer because you can't break the Constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u479	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u480	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland provides explicitly: the Sejm exercises control over the activities of the Council of Ministers within the scope of the defined provisions of the Constitution and the Act. This function also includes control over the expenditure of the Council of Ministers, which is exactly what you are trying today to collect from the Committee on Public Finance. You expect changes to the financial plan of the Material Reserve Agency and the Enterprise Restructuring Fund to be made without approval of the Public Finance Commission. Thinking that way, I wonder why the committee is working two months on the budget, wasting its time. Maybe we should just determine the receipts, the expenses and the deficit, and then let the ministers share. But the basic question is, what are you trying to hide? If you make these changes, there's always a purpose. I wonder what it is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are you trying to hide from the members of the Committee on Public Finance and Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u481	I'm not calling you, but if you want to answer... I can only inform you that we have worked under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The Rules of Procedure have not been infringed and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are adopted in accordance with the Constitution and are not contrary to the Constitution. [[But the legislation was misjudged.]] So much for the rules. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: corrected.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[But the marshal misunderstood.]] I don't allow correction. I just want to let you know that the Sejm's rules are in line with the Constitution. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 157 votes against - 239 abstentions - 36. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete point 4 of paragraph 2. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u482	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what this is? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Postcard.]] Card, very good. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's a blank blank card. And today the government wants this card, ladies and gentlemen, to be adopted by Parliament. A clean, emptiness card, which will write down expenses that the Sejm will not have a clue about, because in fact, the deletion of this point, which we are now trying to make this amendment, leads to the fact that Parliament is being deprived of - the PiS club knowingly deprives itself - of the ability to control how the government spends public funds. [[This is an outrage.]] Minister, what do you want to spend your money on from the Enterprise Restructuring Fund? Because we've been doing this at one and the other committee meeting, at one and the other reading, and you're hiding this secret... [[It's good for the committee of inquiry.]] ...you don't want to tell me what this public money is meant to be for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, citizens have a right to know, and the Sejm has a duty to control, [[Applause]] for which the government spends public funds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u483	Thank you, sir. [[This is an outrage.]] But I would ask you not to abuse it here, because it's not the PiS club, it's the Public Finance Commission. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But that's the fundamental difference. [[We all know how it was.]] As far as I know, all clubs have their representatives on this committee. [[It's good for the committee of inquiry, Mr. Marshal.]] Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote - 179, against - 226, abstained - 28. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[There's gonna be a committee of inquiry.]] Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor before the vote on the whole draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u484	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With regret and heartache as a Member of this House, I must say that the Marshal of the Sejm misleads Members consciously and intentionally. [[Applause]] I said that this law was introduced into the Sejm's deliberations with full awareness of the non-Rules, and I am still signing under it, because the principle is that the printing must be made available by the hour. On the 21st day preceding the session of the Sejm, and this law was first introduced to the working schedule of the Sejm, and the printing of the Sejm appeared on the page only about an hour. 24. [[Applause]] I will not mention that point 3 of that law was introduced without first reading, which is also incompatible with the legislative procedure. Mr. Marshal, please withdraw from your lies. Enough of the Members of the Law and Justice have lied about important matters from this speaker in recent days. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u485	Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u486	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Why didn't you answer any questions? What do you have to hide? [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] We want to know. [[Where's the finance minister?]] You are always lying, and in the Committee on Public Finance, these amendments have been passed by the votes of the PiS. Why didn't the government answer any questions? How much money does he want to spend without parliamentary control? Why did you take such a form? [[Some members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice: Shhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ……]] There is no Prime Minister, therefore, a question to the government. Maybe we can finally get an answer to that question. Why are you hiding from the public, from the parliament, what do you want to spend money on, how much expenses you want to block? And the PiS state is acting like snakes. Goodbye. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u487	Thank you, Member. I inform the High House that the work on this bill was carried out in accordance with the regulations. Let me remind you, Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm explain these doubts... [[That's what you say.]] ...so I ask Members to read the Rules of Procedure carefully. Sejm control is maintained. [[There's gonna be a committee of inquiry.]] The Public Finance Committee, first reading, second reading and voting right now. [[Where's the government?]] Everything takes place in the Seym. We therefore proceed to the vote on the whole draft law. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1150 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 228 voted against - 178, with 31 abstentions. I state that the Sejm law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016 has passed. We return to the examination of item 46 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft act on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes between Poland's Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1162. We'll proceed with the vote. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, questions are being asked. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern Club. Stusinski, I'm sorry... Stasiński. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u488	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that there may be a project in this House on which such Members as Mr Stefan Niesiołowski from the European Union of Democrats, Mr Marcin Święcicki from the Civic Platform, Mr Waldemar Andzel from Law and Justice, Mr Jacek Żalek from Solidarna Polska, have worked in the last and current term. Am I right, sir? [[Poland Together. The PiS Club.]] From Poland together. This joint project is what we will vote on, i.e. the act on avoiding double taxation between Poland and Taiwan. You'd think it was a small bill and it didn't matter. But let us remember that Taiwan as a country with a small area and a small number of people is one of the largest financial investors in the world. We're here according to some people to fight batons on their heads, preferably in front of the media, but there are projects where we can work together, [[♪ The bell ♪]] working together for a better cause. And let it be such a Christmas good fortune for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u489	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before we proceed with the vote on this law, I just want us to be fully aware that, although we must do so, we are doing the circumvention of the law, we are doing the circumvention of the Constitution, we are doing the circumvention of the International Agreements Act of 2000, art. 89 and 91 constitutions. All this in the name of some higher purpose, and we allow it. In other words, my question is whether we will treat entrepreneurs who are going to circumvent tax law in the same way, and then we will not apply the circumvention clause. If you can do that, the entrepreneur can. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u491	I don't know if it's... Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 1162, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 429, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the principles of avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of taxes on income applied by the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. [[Applause]] We would like to return to the discussion of item 33 of the agenda: Report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad on the adoption of the Senate on the Law establishing the Eastern Cross. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In Amendment 1. to Article. 1 The Senate proposes to replace the words between 1937 and 1959 between 1917 and 1991. Amendments 7 and 13 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against Amendments 1, 7 and 13 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Four votes against - 429, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In Amendment 2. to Article. 1 The Senate proposes to delete the word 'old'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. The vote was 421 against - 8, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 3. to Article. 1 The Senate proposes to delete the word "ex." The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. The vote was 426 against - 3 nobody abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 4. to Article. 2 The Senate proposes to delete paragraph 2. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote was 6 against 429, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 5. to Article. 2 The Senate proposes to delete paragraph 2. 3. Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 5 and 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. The vote was 391 against - 39, with 0, that is, no one abstained. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In Amendment 6. to Article. 4 The Senate proposes that the provision be clarified. Amendment 9 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6 and 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Nobody voted against, everybody voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 10. to Article. Point 6 (2) of the Senate proposes to delete the words "the list of applications submitted'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. The vote was 402, against - 2 and 32 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 11. to Article. 6 The Senate proposes to supplement the guidelines for the regulation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. One Member voted against - 437, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 12. to Article. 7 The Senate proposes that, after the words "except for Article." add the words "and art.' Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 1 Member voted against - 436, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We would like to refer to item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the amendment to the article. The 2nd Law amending the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 35 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) 6b (3) of the amended Senate Act proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219 Members. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 6b of the amended Senate law proposes a legislative and editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219 Members. Five Members voted against - 432, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We would like to refer to item 36 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate Act amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 3 (2) of the Rural Development Support Act, with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, the Senate proposes to amend its reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Nobody voted against - 438, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 5th Law amending the Senate proposes to amend its reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Applause]] 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219 Members. Nobody voted against 437 Members, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The 13th Law amending the Senate proposes to amend the transitional provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219 Members. One Member voted against - 436, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We would like to refer to item 37 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate's resolution on the Act against unfair exploitation of contractual advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. The amendments of Senate 1 and 3 are editorial and legislative. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219 Members. Nobody voted against, 436 Members voted against. So the Sejm adopted the amendments unanimously. In the second amendment to the article. 2 The Senate proposes clarification of the reference. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218 Members. Nobody voted against 434 Members, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. The third Senate amendment has already been examined. 4th Amendment of the Senate to the Art. Paragraph 7 2 is editorial and legislative. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219 Members. Nobody voted against 437 Members, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 3, Article Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218 Members. Nobody voted against, everybody voted against. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes to amend its referral. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219 Members. Everyone voted against. So, in the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm adopted the amendment quite unanimously. 7th Amendment of the Senate to the Rule. Paragraph 41 (4) is editorial and legislative. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. I'm declaring a 10-minute break, and I'm informing you... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] ...that during the break I will call the Senior Convention. [[Voice from the Chamber: One more vote!]] We'll have at least one more vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min 48 hours 22 min 08]] I'm reopening the session. I inform the High House that the committees have actually submitted a revised report on the government draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for a second reading of the project. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote to complete the agenda of the next session of the Sejm. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda of the next session, the 33rd session of the Sejm with the following item: Revised report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Government bill amending the Act on Pension Provision of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families, prints No. 1061 and 1159, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 237, against - 192, with 4 abstentions. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. A formal conclusion? Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed to the final point in this block, we will pass this vote and there will be a formal motion. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1161). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1161, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 425, against - 2, with seven abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The formal application is submitted by Anna Maria Siarkowska, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. I request a break from the Sejm's Rules of Procedure so that the Minister of National Defence can prepare himself and answer today the High House's question about the circumstances of the resignation of General Mirosław Różański. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The resignation is all the more disturbing... [[Sam quit.]] ...that her details are unclear, her circumstances... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u493	Mrs... [[But he quit!]] Madam, I am so sorry, ma'am, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u494	...more importantly, it is the responsibility of the President of the Republic of Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u495	...your proposal does not concern matters of concern...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u496	...and the Minister has appointed the Minister for this post. [[Applause]] There's already a BBN announcement on this. [[Punishment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u497	...of the day's order. I remind you... Madam, I am so sorry...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u498	This is an unacceptable situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u499	... You'll have the right to appear on this matter in the Members' statements, not... [[Let the people talk!]] This cannot be a formal proposal because it does not concern the current session of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Bravo, Ania!]] [[These are important things!]] I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 13 hours 22 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 48 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and some other laws (prints Nos 1143 and 1148). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] But before that happens, I would like to ask Members to leave to discuss, in the colloquials. Mr Cymanski, please, and Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Cymanski! [[The voice from the room: Cynian!]] Gentlemen! [[They're not gentlemen, they're ordinary men.]] I wanted to ask very much for peace in the courtroom. [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] And I ask Mrs Paluch to present a report to the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u500	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry carried out the first reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and some other laws contained in print No 1143, and then examined it. The committee's report is contained in print No 1148. The draft law presented by the group of Members responds to the demands of many landowners who have for years expressed their dissatisfaction and discomfort caused by the rules on the cutting of trees and shrubs resulting in a serious reduction in the rights of property owners. The project presented by the Group of Members of the Law and Justice, which was discussed yesterday by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, leads to simplification of the regulation on the cutting of trees and shrubs, and to equip local authorities with the competence to adapt the level of protection of greenery to their needs and to differing national conditions, which are characterised by different localities. Let me remind you, High Izbo, that the current regulations require the owner of the plot to apply to the right uncle, mayor or city president for permission to cut out trees or shrubs, which is undoubtedly some kind of interference to the right of the owner of the property to dispose of the property. Let us add that the overwhelming majority of these decisions taken by municipalities in this respect are positive. So why the administrative nuisance? The project in question aims to enable municipalities to refrain from obtaining permits for the removal of trees and shrubs in situations which the local authorities consider justified and to waive fees for the removal of trees and shrubs if the local authority so decides. The municipalities will have the power to set, in relation to the maximum rate set by the Law, the rates of removal fees for trees and shrubs. Those maximum rates referred to in Article. The 85th Nature Conservation Act is 500 PLN for the removal of trees and 200 PLN for the removal of shrubs. In addition, the changes introduced reduce the scope of administrative control of clippings, e.g. by increasing the value of tree circuits for which there is no obligation to obtain authorisation and reducing the financial burden on applicants by increasing the value of tree circuits for which there is no obligation to pay for their removal. There will also be a change in the principle of measuring the circumference of trees. Now it will be driven at an altitude of 130 cm from the ground, not, which was often impossible, 5 cm from the ground. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The competent council of the municipality will be able to determine, by means of a resolution forming an act of local law, that the rules on the fees for the cut-off also do not apply to other trees or shrubs identified on the basis of criteria which take account of the species, age, circumference of the tree, the purpose of its - the tree or shrub - of the removal, the characteristics of the property on which they are located, its use in the local spatial planning plan or the types of land on which the trees or shrubs grow, or other criteria. Thus, as in the field of spatial policy, the municipality council will have in its hand a tool to conduct nature conservation policy in the area of the local municipality. The facilities described above for property owners are included in the article. 1 draft law. High Izbo! Art. 2 in turn contains amendments to the Forest Act. The proposed amendments aim at a closer link between the Forest Law and the environmental protection system, which regulates the protection of individual elements of the Forest Law. It is therefore proposed that the Minister for the Environment should lay down, by means of a regulation, the requirements of good forest management practice, taking into account the need to preserve all resources, creations and nature components in good condition, in particular those species which are of interest to the European Union, but also taking into account social, economic and cultural circumstances and local characteristics. High Izbo! Art. 3 introduces a transitional provision resulting from the systemic amendment of Environmental Law, i.e. the Act of 9 October 2015 amending the Act on the provision and protection of environmental information, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments, which enters into force on 1 January 2017. One of the changes is the separation of environmental impact assessments of forest management plans and the assessment of forest management's compliance with nature conservation requirements. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 3 is a transitional provision because it introduces a transitional period of one year, i.e. shall postpone entry into force until 31 December 2017. Let me remind you that the current wording of the article. 3 in the draft, the report of the committee shall read as follows: Until 31 December 2017, the forest economy shall be deemed not to be in breach of the prohibitions referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 of the Act of 16 April 2004 on Nature Conservation, paragraph 1, paragraph 7, point 8, point 12 and point 13 of the Act on Nature Conservation, here the publication address where it is carried out on the basis of plans which have been subject to a strategic environmental impact assessment. High Izbo! It should be noted here that art. 3 of the project referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1, that is the provision introducing the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive. In short, Art. The 12 Birds Directives contain implementation and Article. 16 of this Directive contains exceptions to its implementation. It is similar with the second of the EU directives - in Article. 5 are provisions which implement it and in Article. 9 in turn there are derogations from the Birds Directive. The opinion submitted by the Sejm Analysis Office raises doubts as to the fact that Article. 3 the project does not refer to the specific conditions for the admissibility of derogations from the prohibitions set out in Article. 16 Habitats Directives and Article. 9 Birds Directives and these conditions will not be taken into account, for example, in situations where species and habitats are to be protected, which in the area covered by the forest management plan subject to a strategic environmental impact assessment only appeared after the plan was drawn up, i.e. that the proposed regulation does not take into account all the situations covered by the regulations of those Directives. For this reason, the wording of the article. 3 raises certain doubts as to the compatibility with the said Articles of the Directives. Nevertheless, the basic question must be whether the value of rational forest management at 30% of the country's territory and the economy of the State Forests is important. Blocking this transitional provision in the event of failure to adopt an Article. 3 would have a serious impact and the committee has therefore decided to adopt this article. High Izbo, in turn art. 4 of the bill presented contains transitional provisions for amendments to the Nature Conservation Act, those which we are establishing, which we define in the article. 1) and Article 2 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iv) (iii) and (iv) (iii) and (iv) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iv) and (iv) and (iv) and (iv) and (iv) and (iv) and (iv) and (iv) and (iii) and (iv) and (iii) and (iv) and (iii) and (iv) and (iv) and (iv) and (iv) respectively. 5 provides that the amendments contained in this proposal will enter into force on 1 January 2017. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry adopted the draft law contained in the committee's report by 16 votes in favour, with one abstention. In addition, the Commission presents two minority proposals in the report. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt a draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and certain other laws contained in print 1148. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u501	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm decided that in the discussion on this item he would listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Agata Borowiec, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u502	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on printing 1143, i.e. a draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and some other laws. We consider the proposals put forward by the applicants to be reasonable. The proposed changes have been expected by society for many years, restore real property rights, reduce costs, eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy, i.e. procedure for unnecessary administrative authorisation to remove trees or shrubs growing on a private plot. We agree with the applicants that the proposed law aims to make the most urgent changes and we support these changes. I would like to remind you that the current legal situation does not allow for a reduction in the amount of the penalty for the removal of a tree without permission or a waiver of that penalty, e.g. because of the particular circumstances of the case, such as the health status of the cut-off tree, the nature and extent of the damage caused, the degree of culpability of the perpetrator or his motivation. There have also been numerous complaints to my parliamentary office about these provisions, as they did not provide for the possibility of taking account of justified circumstances. The lack of proportionality of the administrative penalty to the seriousness of the damage to the good has also been repeatedly raised. Ladies and gentlemen, on 1 July 2014, the Constitutional Tribunal examined complaints by private owners on which a public administration imposed penalties for the removal of trees without permission. And so on. for removing one poplar it was over 102 thousand. zł, one beech - almost 160,000. zł. The amount of the penalties was clearly not appropriate to the seriousness of the damage to the good, with which the Constitutional Tribunal agreed. This draft law aims to make changes that will allow a significant increase in the rights of property owners. The current restrictive state of law does not fulfil its role, as almost all the decisions made by public administrations are positive and thus allow the removal of trees. It is worth mentioning data: in 2014 and 2015 e.g. The municipality of Krościenko nad Dunajec issued 156 decisions, all positive. Lomza - 263 decisions, including two were negative. Gdansk e.g. Made nearly 1800 decisions, including only 15 were negative. The current procedure is therefore unnecessarily burdened on both property owners and public administrations. In addition, proposals for amendments to allow municipalities to refrain from obtaining permits for the removal of trees and shrubs in the situations they choose and to waive removal fees, including in the situations they choose. Such solutions will enable municipalities to adapt the scope of their proceedings to the real opportunities and needs of the municipality concerned. The aim of the proposed law is also to enable the conservation of all elements of the environment in an appropriate conservation state, in particular species of interest to the community and protected species of birds, in the forest area and in their vicinity. We also consider these solutions to be positive. It is worth noting in conclusion that the project has a positive socio-economic impact, has no impact on the state budget or local government units and is compatible with European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u503	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u504	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are dealing with as appalling as the normal option for ruling over laws. I am sorry to say this, because this time it is about the special good, the conservation of nature, and I really can't find any argument that would support this way of proceding issues that concern, as the applicants here call for, very many issues related to the everyday life of Poles, which for many years have been advocated by many people. In this law, on the one hand, we have a question of authorisation or the procedure for granting these permits and the fees and penalties for cutting down trees and shrubs, and this is like one package. I would like to say that, in a situation where, here, I present the opinion of the Civic Platform, our club, we are interested in being honest about this issue and rationalising these rules, but in a civilised manner, in consultation with non-governmental organisations, in a normal way of proceding, and we are dealing with on the one hand... The project, as far as we know, was being prepared - even in committee there were conflicting information - it was prepared if not in the ministry, in circles close to the ministry, then it was suddenly submitted as a parliamentary project, as if bypassing the public consultation, bypassing the consultation and mandatory opinion of the local government in this situation, because according to e.g. Article 2 Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of our Rules of Procedure: The review of laws (a resolution) which may lead to changes in the functioning of local government includes the consultation of local authorities, which form the local government of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. What prevented - and we are introducing local law to which the municipality will regulate these issues - what prevented it from doing so? At the same time, I applied for a public hearing on this issue, because it also arouses emotions in NGOs. It's rejected, too. What happens that in the three days before the festivals de facto this law must be passed? At the same time, an article is being proposed. 3, which is an obvious violation and says this to the Legislative Bureau and... [[Office for Sejm Analysis, Member.]] I'm sorry. Both. The Legislative Bureau... presented the representative on the committee that the rule is unconstitutional, because it does not concern the matter of this law, and as such it may be declared incompatible with the Constitution. Secondly, it is advisable by the Sejm Analysis Office that there are serious doubts and these serious doubts cannot be resolved in such a 5-minute mode, because we do not even give the analysis office a chance. We want to put ourselves at risk of breaching directives and losing European funds, e.g. for European projects in the field of nature conservation. [[But the analysis office did make it.]] You really can't understand it. At the same time, I have submitted as a minority request precisely because this article, which is not related to this law and causes suspension during the EU directives, does not provide for this... It's not like the president said it would be. Besides, the vice-president of the committee has already assumed all the roles, because she has already decided for the president, and for the Senate, as they will refer to this law and even for the period. [[There was nothing like that.]] Congratulations on your well-being. But... [[Madame, don't lie to me from this speaker. She's heard a lot, but don't exaggerate.]] ...but please, but please don't disturb me. Marshal, may I have your intervention?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u505	Ladies, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u506	And it didn't happen either... It would be easiest to reject this article, which has nothing to do with it, and to debate honestly on the regulation of tree and shrub clipping rules. And in fact, if the Poles are waiting for this, if they notice it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's talk. Let's hear them out. At the same time, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, in connection with this process and this way of action, I propose that this project be rejected in its entirety by declaring that the debate and new regulations on the removal of trees and shrubs from the premises and the equal treatment of property owners are proposed not only from a property point of view, which I have already raised in the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u507	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u508	There you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u509	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u510	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that when you hear what Mrs Lenartowicz said, you must say this: I don't think you've listened to people and squirrels. [[Applause]] That's why your position... [[The platform hasn't listened at all in the last eight years.]] [[That led you to the opposition bench.]] ...or the position of the Civic Platform Club. I must say that this bill is a rare case of PiS legislation that makes life easier for ordinary citizens and authorities. It is also proof of either the conscious creation and maintenance by the previous coalition of conditions in which the citizen was wholly dependent on the administration, or the separation of this coalition from the conditions of existence of this man. This bill will change some pathology. It is surprising that the Civic Platform insists on continuing with it. They do not mention the fact that these regulations have been drasticly validized by the citizens, but sometimes necessary cuttings of trees and shrubs. This was radically different from practice in other areas. But these regulations also hindered the functioning of the administration and exposed it to accusations of voluntaryity in terms of decision-making. High Seym! It was probably the first case someone came to me at the parliamentary office, pointing to the absurdity of the previous solution. The attributes of this proposed change are mainly the regulation of the rules for cutting down trees and shrubs in such a spirit that they protect nature from devastation, while at the same time not unduly restricting the rights of property owners on which trees grow. Another is the introduction of simplified clipping procedures. The next issue that needs to be raised is the commitment of local authorities to the conservation of nature decisions on the possibility of providing it and the extent of the needs of the local environment. We can say, maybe not quite, but we're getting close to that moment when a man will be a full owner on his property. Detailed provisions of the Act will facilitate the lives of people and the functioning of administration. To prove it. Here, for example, a solution which gives municipalities the right to determine the rates of fees for the removal of trees and shrubs, which means that local authorities have a real impact on the level of their income. A positive element of the law is also the link between the legal solutions governing nature conservation into a single system, the link between the forest law and other regulations in this area. Usually, the wording that the project has beneficial socio-economic effects when looking at the content of legislation makes it difficult to doubt the trueness of this phrase. This time, however, this wording is entirely justified by the arrangements introduced by the Act. The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of this law and at the same time against the proposed amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u511	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u512	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult not to notice that the proposed project is consistent with the policy of Minister Szyszka, even though it is a parliamentary project, surprisingly. The proposed changes include a reduction in administrative control of tree and shrub clippings. As a result, many more protected trees can be cut out. There is no way in this project to cut out old, rotten, sick trees above all. If they are fruit trees, then they do not need permission to cut them. If we have ornamental shrubs or those that are not more than 10 years old, then they can also be removed freely. Together with this law, the trees will be threatened with natural value and can be cut out of much older trees than before. The measurements will be valid at 130 cm height, not 5 cm as before. This will significantly increase the number of trees capable of cutting. The loss of one large mature tree is 561 kg more carbon dioxide per year in the atmosphere, 600 l less preserved water in the country haunted by droughts and 4.5 kg less absorbed air pollution. In addition, the project drastically reduced the maximum rates for tree cutting. The municipalities will be able to set the rates of fees - and thus the municipality will be able to propose a different rate, which is an absurd idea, given the issue of state policy in the context of nature conservation, including trees. The law will work backwards and the pending cases will include a new law. [[You do not understand the transitional provisions, Madame. Don't embarrass yourself.]] The committee was talking about inconveniences for people with parcels. There's been talk of draconian punishment for cutting. A system of educating landowners is needed, awareness of which trees can be cut, and at the same time the need for permission to cut, rather than abolishing to this extent the mechanisms for controlling the cutting of trees throughout the country. That's an exaggeration the other way. We need to find a balanced position that will not be a threat to nature conservation in Poland, and at the same time will not be an excessive burden for citizens. The project has not been consulted with citizens, although it is strictly about the good of common and common values, which include nature conservation. Even regional environmental directorates fear that the tree clippings carried out by investors or developers will be out of control. This is very real, all the more so as the obligation to agree with the Regional Environmental Director on tree cuttings in the public road lane is to be repealed. There have often been situations in which officials tended to decide to cut down trees, but as a result of the social opposition to which the local board of appeal was favored, there was no clipping. Once the proposed legislation has been introduced, these opportunities on the part of the public will be significantly reduced. Art. 3 of the project says: until 31 December 2017, forest management shall be deemed not to be in breach of the prohibitions referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 (1), (7), (8), (12) and (13) of the Nature Conservation Act of 16 April 2004 where it is implemented on the basis of plans which have been subject to a strategic environmental impact assessment. This provision is incompatible with European Union law. Repeal of the existing Article. Article 52a (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Nature Conservation Act implements According to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, European Union law does not provide for time-limits or transitional periods for the application of the prohibitions referred to in Article. 12 Habitats Directive and Article. 5 Birds Directives. The designer proposes that forest management be possible regardless of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 Nature Protection Act, which implements the prohibitions of these EU directives. The introduction of this provision into Polish law may threaten to withdraw the funding, as we have already heard here, by the European Union of environmental projects. The Forest Act is about to bring about changes that will enable the Minister of the Environment through the regulation to present a model for achieving the objectives and principles of forest management, a code of good practice. Knowing the destructive approach of Minister Szyszka to nature conservation in Poland, we cannot agree to such a change. The Act also aims to facilitate the clipping of the State Forests. It is hard to imagine that, after such a law, the statistics on the trees cut out in Poland will not begin to present large numbers. There is a difference between the relaxation and the drastic abolition of rules on cutting down trees in the country. We do not agree with the proposed changes. The Modern Posel Club is against the project in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u513	Thank you very much, Member. Ten Members signed up for the questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Gosiewiski, the Law and Justice are the first questions to be asked by Mr Jerzy Gosiewiski. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u514	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to say that we have fought for several years to change the rules on nature conservation, which weaken nature conservation. Minister, is it true that people are afraid to plant trees and shrubs so that their grandchildren do not suffer so that they are not severely punished? [[Sir, have you seen the gardens? Are they out of trees?]] Is it true that the proposed law is the defence of democracy in Poland? Is it true that the proposed law gives citizens freedom, freedom to citizens? Is it true that the proposed law gives, restores property to Polish society? [[It's a pity you don't respect property in hunting law.]] Is it true that the rules put in place allow people to manage their land normally? Is it true that Poland should be for Poles that we as a parliament should take care of the interests of our society? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u515	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Golinska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u516	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a short but very important bill, a very important social one. [[That's why we need to consult.]] And the questions are: Is it true that not only the owners of private parcels are waiting for this law, but also farmers who have so far had to obtain consent and sometimes pay horrendous fees for cutting out trees on agricultural land and the municipalities have not been able to depart from the calculation of these high lobes? It must be borne in mind that the farmer uses the land to maintain it in good agricultural culture, which is required by other provisions. On the one hand, he has to make clippings, and on the other hand local authorities charge him horrendous fees. I was talking about the scale of these fees, about how horrendous they are, in the course of the committee's work. A farmer from my county, Szczecin district leased 20 hectares of land from the Agricultural Property Agency. The municipality charged him a fee of 39 700 thousand. zł and could not waive the charge. Will the proposed project change this state? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u517	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u518	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We heard here that Poland is meant for Poles. Yes, for Poles and all other citizens who in peaceful intentions come to Poland, to our beautiful country. Just remember that Poles should have something to breathe and live in a clean environment... [[Eight years.]] ...and today we have one of the worst air in the country... [[Air?]] [[Air?]] Madam, do not disturb me, you must always stop me. ...in the European Union. Please note that by introducing a free American woman in terms of nature conservation and tree cutting, we will make our air even worse. But what do you care, you can smile and say, let's have the 50,000. Poles die every year because of smog in Poland. Why protect nature? Why should we strive to ensure that citizens' rights are preserved in all respects? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Remember, one man's freedom ends where another man's freedom begins. [[That's what we remember.]] And we must pay close attention to that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u519	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u520	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! It's not regulation, it's devastation. [[Why your government has been torpedoing for eight years...]] You're introducing this law to a free American woman in the cutting of trees. A businessman comes to the parliamentary office and says he wants to be able to cut out a tree because he's tired of cleaning leaves. That's how it's gonna look. I don't like trees, branches break when there's winds, so I'll cut them out. Are stihle and husqvarny supposed to work in Poland since 1 January? [[Do not advertise to companies, Mr President, the speaker is not meant to do so.]] Is this about the massive amount of wood you get because you need biomass? Well, maybe there's a reason. Wood sells well. The Minister will cut it all out. [[Why the Minister? This is a parliamentary project.]] Why do we need woods? What do we need green for? Why do we even need to breathe? We've got a good shift, haven't we? She's more important. It's touching the woods, it's affecting our lungs. How do you plan to make space, grow gardens? This bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] comes back to early communism, which is very significant for you, when valuable species of trees such as beech and oaks were regarded as a manifestation of bourgeoisie. [[Applause]] [[What are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u521	Thank you very much. [[Yeah, yeah, they cut the beech, you're gonna be there.]] I would like to invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u522	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is back to normal. The solutions proposed here are expected by citizens who want to be able to manage their property normally. I hear a lot of whining from Members of the Civic Platform here. Apparently, they never had a cut of their own, and they don't know what the difficulty is... [[Sir, I have a powerful garden.]] [[I've got an old tree.]] ...but it's no problem to buy land, plant forests and have clean land. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] And as a citizen, I want to be able to manage it normally... [[It's normal to smoke garbage.]] ...not that you or you want to see my share and my trees. But I have another question for the applicants: How many jobs will be released as a result of the implementation of this law? Only short estimates show that these are hundreds of jobs on a national scale, hundreds of jobs that are non-productive, which are... [[How many accidents are going to happen?]] ...they can do something completely different. We just heard 1,800 decisions. And these aren't decisions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which seems to be sitting behind a desk, only needs to be carried out a local vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u523	Thank you very much. I also wanted to ask you to calm your emotions. Please, Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u524	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law restores a fundamental sense of justice to many who are waiting for it. It also saves unnecessary mitraga where it was often also some kind of humiliation. I also have an appeal to Members of the Platform: a little more faith in the common sense of Poles and in the sense that it is worth protecting nature because it is our common good. My question to the Minister concerns this part of the Forest Act, because we point out there whether we require the Ministry to define and implement the principles of good practice by means of a regulation. They are described in many articles, in many documents. It's about getting them in one. Is the time we have set for you sometimes sufficient? Will the Ministry have time to introduce this? But I'm really convinced that this is a law that we solve a lot of problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we respond to social expectations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u525	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u526	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will start with a question addressed to critics of this law, questions that they very often like to ask themselves. Members of the Civic Platform! Modern Members! Why do you not like Poles so much that you still want to maintain such sick regulations? What did the old lady do to you who removed the tree in her backyard... [[The old lady...]] ...because this tree grew so big, it prevented her from functioning normally, and then she was terrified to learn that for what she did in good faith, she had to pay hundreds of thousands of zlotys, which was a huge drama for her? Do you want such people to continue to experience similar situations? I would like to ask if the changes made will protect Poles from such situations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u527	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Skurkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club. [[Wojciech.]] [[Zbigniew's a painter.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u528	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a pity that your friends and colleagues from the Civic Platform are no longer in the room. Your marshal is the only representative of this formation, which is why I will direct these words to your marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform, which calls itself a citizen's party, as we have just heard, does not want to trust citizens, does not believe in the wisdom of citizens, does not believe what their needs are, does not listen to the social voice, which has been repeatedly articled. This shows how over the last eight years this party has separated from reality, has separated from these simple and very important cases for an average Pole. These are issues that attract many people who report to our parliamentary offices, and probably also to the parliamentary offices of the Platform Members, the Modern, Kukiz Club15. That's why, Minister, my question is, are these regulations [[♪ The bell ♪]] do they have the right to act even in the area we are talking about, that is, cutting down trees in their own property? Will the municipality also have the right to provide local law in this respect if it wishes to do so? And will the proper forest management be possible since January? 'Cause unfortunately, the laws that we'd like to adopt would put a State muzzle on the Forests that would make it impossible to run a rational economy...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u529	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u530	...forest as of 1 January 2017. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u531	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u532	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think appealing to communism is a bit of a derealization. We do not take away, we give citizens the opportunity to decide their own property. That's the fundamental difference. I think it will finally reach those who speak so easily and simply about returning to communism. Now, here's the question. Is it true that the State Forests operate forest management on the basis of approved plans, which are assessed by the authorities responsible for nature conservation, and this is how nature conservation is conducted? And second question: Is it true that the gminas charged in the case of illegal cuttings of the trees of punishment, in many cases reaching hundreds of thousands and even millions of zlotys, often led to many personal tragedies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u533	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u534	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to thank my colleagues very warmly for this bill. For many years, I've been experiencing this as mayor. Many times the inhabitants wanted to remove the trees, and they simply could not. Few of this resulted in huge costs, trips, visions, the entire administrative process and later decisions that were often detrimental to the inhabitants. We are really restoring the opportunity for their owners to own the land. It's a very important bill. At the same time, the question remains: the possibility of municipalities to regulate, define and respect greenery remains in the law. In fact, the municipality council will establish rights on the basis of which the cut-off will operate in certain areas, whether protected or not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] conservatory, so that nothing bad happens here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u535	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, the main conservationist of nature of Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u536	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many questions were asked here about the proposed amendment to the Nature Conservation Act for the removal of trees and shrubs. They can be grouped, so in these blocks, if you don't mind, I'll answer. I'm sure it's true that people are afraid to cut down trees. In the Ministry we receive many letters from all over Poland, which in their content are letters referring negatively to current regulations. There was an example of a farmer here, we have some dozen such letters from farmers in the ministry. This is the problem of restoring agricultural land to agricultural production, which is covered by self-sowing, let's assume birch, because in the current wording the farmer is treated as an entrepreneur and applying the current rules, each entrepreneur must pay fees for the removal of trees and bushes. This law abolishes the obligation for a farmer to pay fees. Little is going on - in general the need to request an administrative decision on the removal of trees is abolished in this case, so this process greatly improves. Mrs Borowiec gave examples which clearly show that almost 98% decisions are positive decisions. Why is this happening? Because over the years of the current rules, there have been dozens of judgments of courts which have repealed the decision prohibiting the removal of trees, explaining this by restricting property rights. The officials knew - they had access to these judgments and learned - that they had to make a positive decision, because it is necessary, because if they do not, they violate property rights. Therefore, the existence of such provisions is unfounded. I believe that the group of Members who have proposed these provisions is very right to abandon them and to amend them. I'm sure these recipes will improve the cutting out of trees. As I read this amendment to the Act, responsibility for the construction of the rules on tree clippings is transferred to municipalities and it must be made clear to one another that communities vary in nature. Otherwise, it will construct those regulations of the municipality, which has e.g. 95% forestists and does not have to de facto take care of greens like the municipality, which has only 5% or 10% Lesity. This is, I think, very sensible and will allow municipalities to set these rules accordingly. With regard to the second part of the amendments proposed in the Law, i.e. amendments to the Law on Forests, 1 year is certainly enough for the Ministry to prepare these provisions. It is practically possible to say that the State Forests are already in line with this code, it is only necessary to collect this code, so to speak, in whole, because the State Forests are engaged in sustainable forest management on the basis of a number of their own internal rules, which simply need to be collected and systematically arranged into appropriate blocks, so that they correspond to the scope of the laws, Birds and Habitats Directives. The Member of the Kukiz Club15 asked whether forest management would be possible from 1 January. If the High House passes this bill and you sign it before January 1st, it will be possible. If he doesn't, it won't happen, unfortunately there will be a paralysis of forest management. It must be made clear that this paralysis of forest management will result from the rules poorly laid down in the previous term of office. Thank you very much to the applicants for this project, because these regulations, which refer to the Forest Act, are repairing what was broken in the previous term, so we thank you very warmly on behalf of the State Forests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u537	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Ms Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u538	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the representative of the Kukiz club15 for the declaration of support of this law. We're very happy about this. I am saddened by Mrs Lenartowicz, a representative of the PO, especially her statement on the appalling way of proceding, and I would like to ask - if Mrs Lenartowicz were present - what has so upset her. Was the draft in print 1143 available in the Sejm Information System since December 7th, 8 days before the commission meeting was convened? The bureau of its party colleague, Mr Gawłowski, also decided to include the committee bureau on the agenda yesterday in order to consider this item. I am in a hurry to say to Mrs Lenartowicz that in the previous two terms in which she did not sit, and so there is no experience, we have been regularly forced by the ruling majority to process draft laws, which could not even be read, because they were not available on the Sejm's website, they did not even have a well-defined print number. We were protesting, of course, but the majority of PO-PSL did so in general. So I would really like to hear what Mrs Lenartowicz has so upset me. I am sorry and saddened by this motion to reject the bill in its entirety. Here I would like to comment this way: this is the attitude towards human problems that led the current opposition to the opposition bench. And it can be seen that even though they sit on these opposition benches for a year, their thinking was not contaminated by the slightest reflection of why they were there. We need to start thinking about people's affairs, leaning on the problems of Poles and dealing with the problems of citizens of our beautiful homeland, not our own. The third point is the loss of European funds prophesied by the Member. Well, Madam President, I must say this clearly and calmly: for extending this transitional provision, we are not in danger of losing our resources, but we are in danger of unimplemented directives. In the water sector alone, where the previous government has not fully implemented directives, the Water Framework Directive and the Flood Directive, for these simply botched flood risk maps and other documents related to this, all the measures that we may lose in water management, namely EUR 3.5 billion. And it's our government that's fixing these omissions on a large scale. I will refer to the questions of Members, to Mrs Gądek's question, whether we care about the air and why we are simply not concerned about this issue. That's what's bothering us. On the other hand, if Mrs Gądek's colleagues and her own concern of clean air were concerned, 8 years ago Minister Jan Szyszko presented a project to take into account the absorption capacity of Polish forests. This was presented in 2007, i.e. almost nine years ago. For the next eight years, the PO-PSL government sabotaged and mocked it instead of trying to implement it. And Minister Prof. Jan Szyszko succeeded in introducing provisions on the emission balance and absorption into the Paris Agreement in the second month of his ministry. So if the previous government did not fall asleep in ashes, did not ridicule according to the principle that what the previous government did, then it is necessary to throw away, then perhaps the Poles would already benefit financially from the fact that this balance of emissions and absorption can be taken into account. As for the adverts of the sawing companies that Mr. Suski here at the podium worked out, I'm going to say that the seymoral platform is not for that purpose. Responsible politicians, who have been elected by their voters, should be guided by their well-being, try to ease them, try to get in their place and try to lean on the problems of ordinary Poles in their legislative work, have confidence in local authorities, and show confidence in local communities, it is precisely to give them some competence in order for the council to adapt nature conservation policy in its territory to local conditions. High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the representatives who have expressed their support for the bill, and I hope that the opponents of this solution will see in time that this is a very good bill and that it will bring many benefits to Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u539	Thank you, Member. I would like to point out that your speech was far from the committee representative's report. It was like a club appearance. So, in the future, I would ask the committee's rapporteur to deal with the matter of the committee, and if there is such a temperament, please take the floor in the club speeches. [[Your Marshal, I will not refer to you.]] The representative of the applicants, please. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u540	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As a representative of 86 Members of the applicants, Members of the Law and Justice, I would like to thank you very warmly for this discussion today and for the very interesting discussion in the committee where the first reading and examination of the project took place. I am convinced that we are serving a good cause, because this law brings back some basic sense of justice to many people, we are restoring the belief that the state is not a oppressive institution, which uses every moment to put the citizen in some way. We also give large powers to local authorities because we extend the power of local government. We allow farmers to clear fields that have been abandoned for many years due to the non-profitability of agricultural production. Let me remind you that farmers will apply good agricultural practices there, they will take care of their land. A rebours, too, in relation to what the Platform Members have said. I am convinced that Poles love nature, that they are aware of its role and value nature in their lives. However, the fear they had so far had, fearing fresh plantings, fearing planting trees, was precisely because those who, in the generations to come after them, would have a great deal of trouble, which they could not cope with. Now I am convinced that if we extend the right to decide on the plantings we are going to do, we are expanding the possibility and even increasing people's interest in planting trees. We Poles love planting trees. Therefore, I am convinced that what is important for photosynthesis, for this clean air that has been mentioned so much, will not only not be worsened, but, on the contrary, will be improved. That is why I am convinced that this bill will serve a good cause. Thank you very much, all of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u541	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading without referring this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Applause]] On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 32nd session of the Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak again? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u542	Dear Marshal! High Seym! In a few days, December 19th, it is the 110th anniversary of the birth of Major. Stefan Rychter - Officer of the Polish Army and the Home Army, Chief of Staff of the Wachlarz. Stefan Rychter was born in 1906 in Nowa Słupi, a village between Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski and Kielce, at the foot of the Holy Cross. He was the son of Bolesław and Marianna of Kozłowski. In 1919, he began his studies at the State Men's Secondary School in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, a school that still exists and has been named Joachim Chreptowicz since 1923. Her students were among others. B. Tadeusz Dulny - martyr from KL Dachau, Major Jan Piwnik The latter was Mrs Jadwiga Kaczyńska's uncle. It's important to mention these few names to show the atmosphere Stefan Rychter was studying at this school. And it was, in short, an atmosphere filled with patriotism. After a sentence in 1925 he started his law studies at the University of Warsaw. However, he was not given the opportunity to become a lawyer, because after finishing in July 1928 with the second place of the School of the Artillery Reserves in Włodzimierz Wołyński decided to serve in the Polish Army. Between 1928 and 1931 he studied at the School of Podchorażych Engineering in Warsaw, which he will finish with a high fifth place. On August 15, 1930, he was promoted to lieutenant and in 1935 to lieutenant. Since 1937, he has been a student of the Higher War School. In September 1939 he fought in ranks 3. The Division of the Legions Infantry, and after its break-up from 9 September he held the duties of chief of staff of the group of troops of this division led by colonel. Stanislaw Tatar. The documents preserved show that he was doing very well with the tasks entrusted to him. He was taken into captivity on 19 September, escaped from a POW camp in Tarnów and entered his home town. As early as October 1939 he joined the conspiracy activity, and since November this year as a representative of the chief Polish Victory Service General Michał Karszewicz-Tokarzewski was responsible for the merger of groups and conspiracy organizations in Kielce. Since 1940 he has been an officer of the Kielce District Command of the Armed Fighting Union, and since August 1941 he has been head of the Union of Retribution at the District Command of Kraków ZWZ. In the spring of 1942, Rychter was transferred to Warsaw, where he became Chief of Staff of the Wachlarz from April. As chief of staff of this organization, he demonstrated the qualities of a good organizer in particularly difficult conditions in which his soldiers came to work. On 19 January 1943, he moved to Minsk with the task of organising the release from the local prison of a dozen soldiers arrested in December 1942, among whom he was among others. Commander of section IV of the "Wachlarza" section, Major Tadeusz Sokołowski "Trop" section. It was a suicide mission. The strange thing was that the command of such a difficult and dangerous operation was entrusted to a high-ranking officer, not to one of the silent ones. Rychter left for Minsk full of anxiety, felt that this expedition could end in disaster. And in spite of these feelings, he follows the order, goes to Minsk, and there, betrayed by the Minsk prison guard, dies in the fight against the Germans, but his life is occupied by the death of five of them. The significant thing was that Major Tumry died a few days before his wedding. His choice was a soldier of the Home Army, a liaison, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who had also been arrested by the Germans a few days earlier. It wasn't until after the war that she found out about her bride's death. Recalling this Polish fate today, it resembles the figure of Major. I would like to stress that he remained faithful to his soldier's oath until the end. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u543	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u544	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now, in a very flowery speech from one of the messengers, we have heard that we, as Members of the people, should listen to our constituents. As it turns out, in Poland, even though in our country more than 52% of Poles are women, Polish women, something strange has been going on for several months when it comes to state policy towards women. First, there is a proposal, a proposal for a bill proposing to punish women for abortion. Weirdly enough, only women, even though, as we all know, at least two people are needed to conceive, including a man. Under great social pressure, our parliament, fortunately, is pulling out of this project with a clutter, but at the same time there is the idea of a total ban on abortion. At the same time you want to punish women just for lack of heroism, which even in the doctrine of the Catholic Church is unacceptable. In the meantime, it turns out that Poles, Poles, the right to treat infertility in all known ways, and children who are born thousands as a result of an in vitro method, are branded as worse ones, with specific defects, which is of course not true. Once a woman is able to successfully get pregnant and she wants to inform, to have a baby, it turns out that suddenly, we don't know why, by one regulation, the Minister of Health takes what doctors, midwives, Polkas, social organizations have been fighting for for years, and so standards that apply all over the world, or at least in those parts of the world where he cares about man as a being. When pregnancy turns out to be difficult, the child is disabled, another heroism is proposed at all costs and occupied by 4,000. zł, but even later, when children who may be under professional care pass into adulthood as disabled people, the funds for environmental self-help homes, where those with disabilities can be covered by professional care, are reduced. It turns out that it is an idea for those Poles who raised children and whose husbands worked hard for years to give their families, to take pensions after their husbands - those women, mothers of Poles who had just given birth and raised Polish children. Ladies and gentlemen, where is there any logic where there is respect for the Pole, Polishness, Polish woman, mother, wife? In fact, at the end, we have another great news, great in quotes, of course. I hope that is not true, but we are working on a convention on violence against women. Today we heard about weddings made at Jasna Góra, where we talked about the fact that we vowed to take care of the weakest beings. Why do we not want to ensure that there is no violence, no punishment for violence? Suddenly today we learn that at the last moment, after one day of control, the agreement of the foundation, which is currently training Polish girls anti-violence. Ladies and gentlemen, where are we going? What is the purpose of these actions? That's what millions of Poles ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u545	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Aleksandr Anczynski, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u546	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my honor to present a statement about the railroads and the railroads in Chojnice. It's been 145 years since the first train entered the Chojnice station in November. As part of the royal railway of the eastern Prussian aggressor through Chojnice led the railway line from Berlin to Gdansk and Królewiec. After the construction of the line to Człuchów in 1877. The chords have become a railroad hub. In the following years of partitions further development of the node and station in Chojnice took place, there were lines to Nakła and Kościerzyna. Through the Chojnice there was Nord Express from Paris to the east of Europe, to Riga and St. Petersburg, then the capital of Russia. After Poland regained independence, Chojnice became a border town and the station in Chojnice was a border crossing. It is the Chojnice railway station, the railway workers accepted the first hit of the Germans during World War II. On 1 September 1939, at 3 p.m. 4.23 to the station in Chojnice instead of the announced train relations Berlin - Chojnice - Tczew - The Royale entered the armored train from which the station was attacked. Among the first victims and prisoners of World War II were the pioneers of the railway. During the years of the Polish People's Republic, the railway node in Chojnice belonged to the District Directorate of the State Railways in Gdańsk. The locomotive, together with the staff of the auxiliary units - the carriage, the traffic and trade units, the station service - was for many years the largest workplace in the Chojnic district, employing more than 2.5 thousand people. persons. Hard work, especially traction teams first serving steam locomotives, then combustion, today, after years, deserves respect and admiration. 18-year-old boys working on steam trucks during the 12-hour service moved 10 tons of coal to the boiler pit. Several days' service, sleeping in accommodation facilities throughout Poland during the running of freight warehouses - this was the everyday life of train drivers and helpers and conductor teams. In the 1970s, the Chojnicki node received about 100 pairs of trains a day, freight warehouses transited from GDR through Dziadowowo and Braniewo to the Soviet Union. Among the trains run by Chojnice were also military warehouses with nuclear warheads. In the period between August and September 1980, the company committees of the NSZZ.Solidarity were established at the junction of the PKP in Chojnice. The first president was Zbigniew Reszkowski, an engineer and his deputy were Maria Chrapkiewicz, Janusz Rolbiecki and Jan Buczek. The railwaymen from Chojnice actively joined in the activity of Solidarity, acting in the pastoral ministry of the people of work. Many members of the union organization were detained after the introduction of the martial law and were persecuted by their employer. Zbigniew Reszkowski was interned in Potulice under absurd allegations of organizing armed action in a militarized workplace. After regaining independence in 1989, thanks to the very good contacts of Chojnice railwaymen with decision-makers, the importance of the railway junction was significantly increased. It was renamed the rolling stock plant, which employed more than 4.5 thousand. employees. The Department of Regional Transports was established in Chojnice, which employed about 2 thousand people. employees. New rolling stock plant facilities were created, which were put into service on the eve of the railroad holidays on 23 November 1991. The solemn sacrifice was made by a sleeper. Bishop Marian Przykutki. Unfortunately, after the transformation of the system and shock therapy funded by Leszek Balcerowicz to Poles, rail and rail transport in Poland have lost significant importance. This phenomenon was not missed by the Chojnice Railwayrs either. Today, after many years of railway history in Chojnice, railroaders sadly say they have no successors. Young people do not have the opportunity to learn the professions connected with the operation and running of trains, railway schools shared the fate of many vocational schools in Poland. Rail work is difficult and responsible and therefore unattractive for young people entering the labour market. Many families survived from the work of their fathers on the railroad, many of the Chojnic families are related to the railroad. Worshiping and remembering tragic events [[♪ The bell ♪]] I pay tribute to the railwaymen, the victims of the treasonous German attack on Chojnice on 1 September 1939, their hard work in the post-war years, their activity in the NSZZ Solidarity and involvement in the development of the railway junction in Chojnice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u547	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u548	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to make a statement on behalf of the parliamentary team to amend the constitution and introduce one-mandate electoral districts. The local elections in Poland remained for less than 2 years. This means that the shape of electoral ordination should actually be known to voters by now. However, today, i.e. 15 December 2016, we do not even know whether or not the ordination will be changed. Let me remind you that previous local elections in Poland ended in a disgrace on an unimaginable scale. It turned out that a large country in the middle of Europe at the beginning of the 21st century was not able to conduct elections to local governments efficiently. First, the IT system fell apart, because the elections in Poland are so complicated and absurd, that writing a computer program to calculate the results exceeds the possibilities of Polish IT scientists who pretend to be the world's IT elite. There's just no algorithm for this chaos perfect. This delayed the announcement of results in some parts of the country for up to 2 weeks. Let me remind you that in the elections to the Silesian Sejm, 130 thousand were wrong. Voices. The uprising of society turned into street protests - in Warsaw people went out on the streets and invaded the headquarters of the State Election Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, just two years ago in Poland, the most important institution of democracy, which is elections, proved to be a rotten decay, not a permanent and solid foundation for democracy. Nothing's changed since then. What do we do today? What are politicians doing today two years before the elections to be held in the same way as the previous ones, according to the same order? I answer: they deal with Mr.Piotrowicz, a past that can no longer be changed, bringing people out into the streets, sharing society, excluding one by one from the community. Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of Kukiz, 15 recently wrote: "They are accusing us of a pile of moronic laws. Each one needs to be read, referred, scored, although you can immediately see that nothing in people's lives will change. Do not underestimate these words, they are written by the Marshal of the Polish Parliament. What lessons have been drawn from that embarrassment? Cleanly cosmetic, grotesque. Transparent urns were introduced - not transparent choices, but transparent urns. Recently, on the 2nd anniversary of mega-compromising, the State Election Commission was again discussing issues such as whether the voting card is to have a format of cover or brochure, or whether the electoral instructions should not be composed of two sentences, which are often composed of 60 words in total. Reading all of this, it's hard not to quote the famous Boy-Żelenski phrase: because progressive paralysis hits the heads. High Izbo! A failure and a disgrace can be converted into a victory, a lesson can be saved, evil can turn into good. After all, the same local government elections from 2014 showed with all power the advantage of the majority of one-mandate ordination over the proportional one-mandate. Its greatest advantages were: transparency and simplicity. Suffice it to say, in the one-mandate elections of the mayors, the mayors, the presidents of the cities, only 2% were given up. in parallel proportional elections to district councils and voivodship sejmists - as much as 17% Voices that don't matter. It is enough to remind that the results of the one-mandate elections to the municipal councils, as well as the elections of the voivodeships, mayors, presidents were known several hours after the vote was completed, and the results of the elections proportional to the voivodeship sejmists in many cases - only 2 weeks after the vote was completed. Only Kukiz15, which already established a Parliamentary Team in April for the introduction of Unimandate Election Districts, is currently running the process towards the introduction of a majority ordination in general elections of all levels. The team shall also provide a forum for the exchange of views between Members and Members representing all groups in the Sejm. Still, there aren't enough of us. If we want to take the results of the elections seriously 4 years ago, the team should include 460 Members and 100 Senators. That's what we're still hoping for, an agreement over division. There is no more important matter in Poland than changing the inefficient, degrading Poles and compromising the state of the electoral system. Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Kukiz Club15 calls you: Abandon the bias of transparent ballot boxes, join the bias of transparent elections! I encourage you to join the parliamentary team. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u549	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, Mrs. Teresa Noise, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u550	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! It's a slow-burning, Advent candle. In a moment, God himself will come to us on a quiet, holy night. In today's busy world, many of us often say: I am not happy with Christmas, I am no longer a child, so presents, Christmas tree is not fun for me. It used to be different, it used to be the atmosphere of Christmas, christmas, Christmas food, the first Christmas, meeting with the family, singing Christmas carols at the table, talking. And now? He's in a mess, and he's in a mood, and everything. Sometimes we don't know why. Maybe it's because of what's gone wrong with this Christmas? It's new. For the joy of Christmas should come from the birth of Jesus, not from gifts. After all, it's his birthday to celebrate. We're just invited to this holiday. Don't we remember how hard it was for Mary that night? How often have we been modest and poor in our family homes, but have we been able to warm ourselves with the closeness of the hearts of our loved ones? Today, when many of them are no longer at the same Christmas table, there is a touching memory of them, so while we are allowed to experience this beautiful, magical night among our loved ones, let's enjoy the moment in which there is a place for love, memory, emotion, smile, tender mom's hug, dad's carol, grandfather's look and grandma's apple pie. So today please return to earth, star of that birth of God-man. Warm up the Bethlehem stable, cheer up the shepherds. Carry the gift of reconciliation to men. Look at the empty seat at the table, wipe your tears, touch the pain, break the white petals, comfort and hug, and smile at the people. Happy holidays, folks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u551	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mrs Teresa Glenc, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u552	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Saint John Paul II, during his first pilgrimage to his homeland, saw the helplessness of the nation towards the communist hungarian, called us to en. Victories in Warsaw to go to God during this difficult time, asking him for a moral and spiritual renewal of our nation. At that time, as a much younger participant of those events, I could not predict how far-reaching their effects would be for the new Polish system 37 years later. The spirit of those events brings us directly to the 19th of November. in the Sanctuary of Divine Mercy in Krakow-Łagiewniki celebrations of the Act of Adoption of Jesus Christ as King and Lord. This ceremony had a larger symbolic dimension, that despite the collapse of the totalitarian system, which was communism, it took place in the face of the ongoing global extermination of Christians. According to the annual report published by the Papal Association of Church Assistance in Need, now about 200 million people cannot freely confess their faith. In 38 countries, there is systematic religious persecution. I am all the more pleased that, together with a group of parliamentarians, with Mr Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, I was able to participate personally in this historic celebration, which was the Act of Adoption of Jesus Christ as King and Lord. The personal participation in the celebration of the dedication of the homeland of Christ the King had a special dimension for me, the more that this celebration was perfectly included in the celebration of the 1050th anniversary of the baptism of Poland and announced by Pope Francis of the Year of Mercy. The personal participation in the dedication of Christ the King's homeland had a special dimension for me. The event of such a great symbolic and axiological significance allows to correct and perpetuate the right moral attitude in the rulers and positively values daily decisions made in the service of the nation, which should be the service of a parliamentarian. For those who believe in Poland, Jesus Christ should be taken away as the beginning of a new path, which we should follow as a country with a strongly rooted Christian culture. However, it is up to every man's will whether he will voluntarily recognize Christ's royal dignity and submit to his rulership and his law. Those pursuing the law-making process should remember that human law is only secondary law to God's law. When adopting standards that are universally applicable, we must remember that human law must act as a servant and specify moral orders of natural law in terms of public and individual life of every person. In view of the symbolism and the importance of accepting Jesus Christ as king, let us remember that every day, in serving the nation, we should put into practice the values that are at the heart of our Polish Christian identity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u553	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Grzegorz Puda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u554	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to draw attention to the problems of the rescuers of the GOPR Beskidzki Group. The subterfuge is an area of increased activity of mountain rescuers. Tourism is especially increasing during the winter period, as Beskidy Śląski and Żywiecki are one of the main destinations of winter sports for the inhabitants of Silesia. Paramedics operating in Beskids are forced to call for more serious accidents in aircraft rescue helicopters from Gliwice or Krakow, while statistics show that in Beskids there are up to 1/3 of the mountain accidents that occur throughout our country. For the region of Podbeskidzia it is very important that a rescue helicopter with a fixed HEMS base is quickly located in this area. The base could be located, for example. in the area of Bielska-Biała as the largest centre of the region or in another location in the region. I would also like to point out that the helicopter that is currently being used by the Air Emergency Service is not fully fulfilling its role. These helicopters are not ideal for rescue operations in the mountains, so it is worth considering buying a much lighter machine with much more power, with the possibility of doing so-called. hang, such a machine, so that help can reach the victims even under these most difficult conditions and in the worst, most difficult terrain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u555	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jack Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u556	Mrs. Marshal! Fellow Members! All uniform and civilian service of the Sejm, maids, maids, cleaners, conservators, archivists, secretaries and assistants of the secretary, our benefactors, who make it possible to live here after all. Dear stenotypers, all the employees of the pulpit in the Seym Hotel, scattered throughout the Seym and in the services integrated with them, nameless for us actors of the second plan - our helpers. In a few hours, the Sejm will be deserted, parliamentarians will have their custom, with their hair untied and flashing in their eye, jumping out of the starting blocks to catch on to their train or plane today. They're in a hurry. It's justified, it's natural. After more or less turbulent discussions, however, always burdened with a heavy load of emotion and intense work, they rush where it is more predictable and more kind - to their families and homes. Since Christmas is coming, let me, my fellow householders, and here and there, that I will address you with a few words, first of all I apologize, thank you and please. I'm sorry, we're sorry, folks, for the constant shortage of time for you, for the gestures of impatience and impertinence, especially when you're undeservedly being beaten by us for not keeping up with me, I don't know which case I'm supposed to give priority to, for everyone still wants something from us, and when you, wife, husband, daughter, son, expect me to be completely normal for you, then I'm not in this parenting role, including waiting. And at the same time, I want to assure you that when it's hard for me here, I feel like I'm in a cage, it's a rescue to think of home and loved ones. And for that I thank you for continuing to stand by me, accepting with this crazy political manners, supporting, protecting, loving. For this haste, unpredictability, puffs and various indispositions I apologize, we also apologize to you, our seym supporters, quiet, modest and at the same time extremely perfect and hardworking. It remains to be asked, perhaps first of all, by colleagues of parliamentarians, that we change the face of this House together, the ways in which disputes are fought, and that we take care of mutual respect and respect for dignity. You, housewives, constantly reminding us that first you are a human being and then you are a politician, and that you have the right to demand from us first the integrity of our household duties, so that we may later be able to glean in salons and in college. Finally, the paragraph to you, the actors of the second service plan and the employees of the Sejm, so that you may hope and believe that in the near future all the Sejm clubs - I have this confidence - will, with interest and reliability, analyse the conditions of your work so that we can express our gratitude for your diligence and support sufficiently. May Christmas be a blessed time for all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u557	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u558	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In today's statement I would like to draw attention to the organized 19 November in the hall of the Municipal Centre of Culture in Wielowsi IX Provincial Song and Patriotic Song Festival. The festival awarded 29 awards in the categories of: soloists, vocal bands, choirs, duets, tercetes. The festival was organized by the im Junior High School. John Paul II in Wielkowsi and the Municipal Cultural Centre. Over 300 performers from our Silesian Voivodeship took part in this important event. The festival itself was organized for the ninth time. It made many sounds of famous songs and patriotic songs. The jury composed of Dr. Joanna Pudlik and Sabina Borner selected among young artists from Gliwice, Bytomia, Pyskowice, Tworoga, Pniowa, Wieluwsi, Knurowa and Kotulina laureates who performed during the gala concert. At the festival there were also councilmen of the Gliwice district Adam Wójtowicz, the commune of Wielwieś Ginter Skowronek, who can be applauded as the host of such a wonderful event, and Józef Wałach, chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sports and Social Affairs of the Municipal Council of Wielowoś. I am extremely satisfied that, together with Senator Prof. Krystian Probier and the Ministry of National Education, I was able to patronize this event. I would also like to thank all the organisers, the winners, the participants and the guardians of the participants for being part of this extremely important celebration and for the wonderful message that is produced every year when the festival is organized. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u559	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On December 31st, we will celebrate the 160th anniversary of the birth of Wojciech Kossak, one of the most famous Polish painters, a representative of painting on historical and battle subjects, co-author of the Battle of Racławice. Wojciech Kossak was born on the last day of 1856 in Paris. His father, Juliusz Kossak, painter and sketch artist, gave him his first lesson in drawing. Later he studied at the School of Drawing and Painting under Władysław Łuszkiewicz and then at the Munich Academy of Fine Arts. He also served as a volunteer for a year's military service completed with an officer's exam. The artistic success of the young painter began in the 1980s. In the 19th century, when his paintings bought the Imperial Museum in Pest, the Prague Museum, and even Emperor Francis Joseph himself to one of his castles. Kossak lived and created in Berlin and traveled to France and the United States on numerous occasions. He was the president of the Society of Friends of Fine Arts, he founded a painting group called "Zero." He was awarded among others. The Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland and the Golden Wawrzyn Academic of the Polish Academy of Literature. He was an artist extremely talented and hardworking, associated with painting all his life. He painted events from the Napoleonic Wars and the November Uprising, numerous genre scenes and portraits. In his paintings he showed an interest in battle and history. He created such painting works as Olszynka Grochowska, Battle for the City, the Kościuszki Staff, the Artilery in Fire, the Battle of Raszyn and many others. One of his most famous works is created together with Jan Styka's painting of Panorama Racławicka. It is worth noting that Wojciech Kossak was a true patriot. He even decided to break contact with the Berlin court after the anti-Polish speech of Emperor Wilhelm II, even though the court had been a protectorate over his painting for several years. He also refused to create paintings for the Germans during World War II. Wojciech Kossak was the father of famous figures of Polish culture: Maria Pawlikowska-Jasnorzewska, Magdalena Samozwiec and Jerzy Kossak. The artist has permanently entered the canon of the most outstanding Polish painters and personalities of the world of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u561	The uniform doesn't make a good cop, but the belief that the most important value is the other man, and no matter what the circumstances, you should always stand up for his life. The long-standing governments of the PO-PSL coalition have contributed to the liquidation of many local police stations in municipalities. The reform of the previous authority, known as the reorganisation, from 2007 resulted in a reduction in the number of constables from 811 to 399. After the change of power in Poland, as a result of detailed analysis and assessment of the level of safety, it must be noted that this reform has significantly reduced the level of safety in individual municipalities and small towns. The lack of district police stations increases social unrest and lack of security. The successful restoration of district police stations by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration has resulted in the reactivation of units also in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. With undiscovered joy and great satisfaction, I would like to inform you that in recent days there has been an opening of the restored police stations in the district of Włocławska: Lubranec, Lubień Kujawski and Chodcz. The ceremony was celebrated by Deputy Minister Jarosław Zieliński, who not only made a solemn opening, but also rewarded well-deserved uniform and self-government staff by giving promotions, awards and medals. In his speech, he expressed his deep faith in the fact that the reactivated police offices will best serve the safety of the inhabitants, and the service of duty officers, based on the motto: among people and for people, will be an idea that they always have to respect. The reconstruction of police stations is a response to the expectations of residents and the efforts of local authorities. As Minister Jarosław Zieliński said, the program of restoring individuals has enabled the support of local authorities with the government. The efforts of local authorities, district authorities and regional politicians have carried out many years of efforts to improve the safety and quality of life of residents. It is proud of the fact that mutual cooperation policy brings such measurable and necessary results as a response to social expectations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u562	Statement on the long-term maintenance of road infrastructure in Tarnów and other urban centres. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Remont al. John Paul II continues, although he was to finish more than a month ago. Tuchowska Street was to be opened on 1 August, then the date was postponed (...), the third attempt to open the viaduct was scheduled for 8 August. The modernization of Krakowska Street (...) was to end on 15 November. If necessary, the work will be done at night. Dehydration problems are the cause of delays related to the reconstruction of the crossing at ul. Krakowska and Gumniska. The workers didn't make it in time. It's unacceptable that he drives heavy equipment on a newly built sidewalk. The loud construction scandal in Tarnów will end with the replacement of the street's representative surface. The renovation cost about 7 million zlotys four years ago. Once again, the city will pay 4.5 million zlotys for the fuss. The material was imported from Italy, where climate conditions differ from ours. The cubes... were too thin and simply could not withstand our winters. Ladies and gentlemen, these quotations were taken from the local Tarnowski media. They come from different periods. Part is up-to-date, part comes from a month or so ago. But believe me, this kind of situation is everyday for the inhabitants of Tarnów, but not only because this state of affairs persists in many cities of Poland. Closed streets, changing traffic organization, building material of poor quality, which can damage cars, and also poses a threat to human health, and huge sums of money injected into this repair cycle, which seems to have no end. Just as famous as funny is the case of renovation, renovation, renovation, street renovation. Krakowska in Tarnów. As you can see, this is still not an end to the matter. There is much talk about the need to repair the plate of the Tarnów market. Will we also be dealing with such distortions of reality in this case? It should be made clear that the above mentioned situations are naturally also marked by continuous delays and shifts in the final completion of renovation work. Part of the renovations were finally completed after long and difficult crossings, but it cannot be so that all such robots will be carried out on the principle of "to several times" art. Of course, I understand that sometimes situations happen that a person is unable to resist, such as. difficult weather conditions. I accept the fact that sometimes things don't go well with project coordinators. We need to change our plans. There will be a delay in the delivery of the material. We will run out of hands for intensive work or we will deal with other unpredictable events. However, cases such as the latter should be acidental situations, and the delays described above bear the marks of repetitive systemic pathologies, which can be described colloquially as the quality and carefree principle of some local authorities, which, I believe, is a post-communist blemish on the mentality of some local authorities. Therefore, I would like to ask from this place: How long will the citizens of Tarnów and many other cities in Poland have to tolerate the incompetence and inefficiency of officials, contractors and subcontractors responsible for the state of infrastructure in large urban centres? Voladors of many cities are not able to carry out repairs quickly and efficiently, and thus, lead to paralysis of major urban arteries. Prolonged renovations implicate situations of danger to human health and life, because tired of changing the driver and staying in constant haste, in a situation where everyone has had enough of the forever digged streets and pavements, it is undoubtedly a mixture that can quickly lead to tragedy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u563	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Construction of the S19 expressway running through the eastern part of Poland will not only be a significant factor for economic recovery, but will also allow to relieve existing national and voivodship roads and significantly reduce travel time. This will be part of the trans-European road Via Carpatia, which will allow for cooperation with many countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The scandal was that Tadeusz Zwiefka, Jarosław Wałęsa and Julia Pitera rejected the project to build this road in the European Parliament. This road would have been long gone. This is particularly close to me because it concerns the region from which I come. That's how I know how important this project is. I therefore express my gratitude to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction Andrzej Adamczyk for his favor and commitment to the implementation of the investment and for his personal supervision of the work already under way. I would also like to express my thanks to Mr Tomasz Poręba, Member of the European Parliament, for supporting this initiative in both local and European forums. I believe that the opening of the S19 road will contribute to significant economic development and will enable highly developed voivodships to match. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-sejm-32-3.u564	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 32nd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 33rd session of the Sejm, convened for 16 December 2016, was served to the Members. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 48]]
