ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u1	Resume session. I ask Members to take their seats. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would like to call Peter Lukasz Babiarz and Daniel Milewski to the secretaries of today's proceedings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Daniel Milewski. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Special Services Committee - half an hour after the end of the vote. The Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture will meet today at 3 p.m. 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u3	The competent committees have submitted an additional report on the Government's draft Safety Act on the trading of explosives precursors. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the third reading of this draft law. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is in print number 317. [[Game in the O.R.]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to inform you that our deliberations are being listened to by the Ambassador of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Republic of India in Poland His Excellency Mr Ajay Bisaria. [[Applause]] Welcome, Mr. Ambassador. We would like to return to the discussion of item 7 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Jam Saheba Digvijay Sinhji. The Commission proposes that the draft resolution be adopted in print No 255. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No 255 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 423 Members voted in favour. We adopted a resolution on honoring the memory of the Good Maharajah unanimously. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Members. I now inform you that the formal proposals have been made by Members. [[Voice from the room: O break!]] Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform pursuant to Article. Paragraph 184. I am asking your marshal for a break and a convocation of the Senior Convention on the following matter. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Prime Minister, listen to these applause, because at the end there will also be a motion for you. It's based on art. 121 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Mr Marshal, is obliged to appoint a representative from among his fellow Members - I stress: an obligation - a representative in the case before the Constitutional Tribunal. Please inform the members of the Senior Convention why the Marshal has resigned from this obligation. On what basis? [[Because there was no trial.]] Why didn't you appoint a representative for the constitutional order of law, [[Applause]] on a case in which the Minister of Law and Justice requested a deferral in a case in which the judges elected by the PiS participated in the ruling? Finally, a large appeal to the Prime Minister: Please fulfil your constitutional obligation and your statutory obligation. Publish immediately the judgment of the Constitutional Court. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Publish! Publish!]] [[Some of the MPs of the POs pick up the pages with the inscription "The Government of Publicity" and hit the desktops]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u5	Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. Please, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] Do you wish to take the floor, sir? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request that the item on the resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the declaration of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March 2016 on the compatibility with the Constitution of the Act of 22 December 2015 amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act be included on the agenda. I wanted to point out that there was no Senior Convention today. We wanted to introduce this point at the Senior Convention, but it didn't work. I would therefore like to say that the publication of a judgment is purely technical. Constitution in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the The authority is obliged to publish, is in no way entitled to block, hold, assess the usefulness of the judgment. I repeat: the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be published immediately. The resolution was to specify that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland called on the President of the Council of Ministers to immediately announce in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March on the compatibility with the Constitution of the Act of 22 December amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act, issued in case K 47/15. According to Art. 190 of the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling on the compatibility of laws with the Constitution shall be binding and shall be final and shall be immediately published in the official body. At the same time, the Constitution states that the evaluation of the Constitutional Tribunal enters into force [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the date of publication, which results in legal effects resulting from the judgment. The process of announcing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal has therefore been precisely and unambiguously defined by the legislator. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, acting as this body, which according to the Law of 20 July 2000. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the publication of normative acts announces them, has not done so. Prime Minister, we really ask you to perform your constitutional duties. [[There was no verdict.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u7	There you go. However, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask Members to submit formal proposals. We would like to return to the discussion of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Maria Mirecka-Loryś - the steadfast hero of the independent Polish state. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 254. Mr Robert Winnicki raises a question about this point. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a favor to ask. Could you read the draft of this resolution because it is a special occasion when the Polish Parliament for the first time...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u9	You're welcome, sir. I would just ask you to limit yourself to reading the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u10	The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Maria Mirecka-Loryś - the steadfast hero of the independent Polish state. On February 7, 1916, in Ulanów nad Sanem, in the district of Nisko, Dominik and Paulina from Ścisłowski were born, Maria. Since 1937, she has been a law student at the University of Jan Kazimierz in Lviv, where she joined the Academic Union of All-Polish Youth. During World War II she participated in the national conspiracy. She held the positions of commandant of the National Military Organisation of Women and the head of the women's section of the Rzeszów National Party's District. After joining the National Military Organization with the National Army, she was promoted to the rank of captain. She was the chief of the National Union of Military Women and the commandant of the Military Service of Women in the Rzeszów AK suburb. She was arrested in Nisko by the communist authorities. Amnestyd and released on September 1, 1945. Threatened by repression, she left Poland, claiming to be a Luxembourg national. She reached the Second Corps of General Władysław Anders near Ankona. In 1952 she emigrated overseas. In Chicago, she was an active activist of Polish organizations. She held managerial positions in the Polish Union in America and in the Congress of American Polonia. She is the initiator of many actions of assistance to Poles in the East in the territory of the Second Republic. The actions supporting Poles in Kresów lead to this day, driving cyclically to Lviv and other villages of the former Republic. Known for her warmth and activity. On the 100th anniversary of the birth of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, she wishes to express her appreciation and thank the extraordinary patriot Maria Mirecka-Loryś, for her huge contribution to the struggle for independence of Poland and constant concern for Poles around the world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u11	I understand that the Sejm adopted a resolution by acclamation. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I can't hear the voices of opposition. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government bill amending the Law on the Animal Identification and Registration System. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 259. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 259, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 424 votes against - 14, 5 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Animal Identification and Registration Act. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation. The additional committee report shall be in print No 296-A. We proceed to the third reading. At the moment, I would like to ask the floor of Wojciech Skurkiewicz and to present an additional report to the committee. There's no envoy. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is!]] I can't see. Where are you?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry rejected all the amendments tabled during the second reading and recommended that the High House adopt this amendment to the Law on forests without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u13	Yeah, of course, but she didn't reject it so much, which she didn't think was right, because the Sejm might reject it. Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 296. In an additional report, as you have heard, it also presents the amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Forest Act. In the first amendment to Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 (5a) applicants propose that forest fund funds may also be earmarked for nature conservation in the ecosystems of national parks. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 64 Members voted against - 380, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the third amendment, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 96 Nature Protection Act. Amendment No. is combined with this amendment. 4. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is raised by Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The Białowieża Forest is our national good, it is our heritage, it is unique on a global scale. It is also included in the UNESCO heritage list. Recently we hear more and more about the intention of additional logging in the Białowieża Forest. The National Council for the Conservation of Nature issued a devastating, negative opinion on these plans. My question to Minister Szyszka. Before you cut out the Bialowieza Forest, are you going to cut out those insubordinate members of the National Council for Nature Protection so they don't give negative opinions? Is this the true intention of this amendment to the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Law on Nature Conservation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u15	Thank you. I don't understand what it means to cut out the members of the National Council for Nature Protection. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[She'll explain.]] But maybe Minister Jan Szyszko will answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u16	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I was gonna say no one's planning on cutting out the Bialowieza Forest. [[Exactly. Yes, sir.]] The Białowieża Forest is a great cultural and natural heritage of Poland, the local population and Polish forestry. It is indeed unique on a global scale, admired by the whole world. We can say that if we have something like this here in Europe, it means that other countries have already destroyed it, so we can really be proud of it. [[Applause]] I would also like to tell you that each Member has been invited to attend a special conference held in the international agreement tomorrow, namely from UNESCO, as well as with the European Commission, on the subject of the Białowieża Forest - myths, facts and the future. Those who do not come to this conference will be informed of its results in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u17	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 200 Members voted against - 245, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 296, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. There were 233 votes against, 154 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Forest Law and the Nature Conservation Act. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 282-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! The Committee on Public Finance considered the amendments tabled at second reading. They all have a positive opinion, and they also have a positive opinion on the vote on the whole of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u19	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 282. The additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a applicants shall propose that the basis for calculating the fee for a quarter be calculated in accordance with the rules laid down in that provision at the end of the quarter immediately preceding the quarter to which the fee relates. Amendment 3 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 443 Members voted in favour, 1 Member voted against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1b applicants shall propose a change in the subject-matter of the fee for the quarter referred to in paragraph. 1 of this article. Amendments 4 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2, 4 and 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 447 Members voted in favour. So the Sejm adopted the amendments unanimously. In the 5th amendment to the article. 38r paragraph. 5 applicants shall propose that the Minister responsible for financial institutions may increase the rate of the fee for the quarter referred to in Article. 13c paragraph. 1 of this law, however, not more than 0,15% . The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 422 Members voted against - 26, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 282, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted in favour, all in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act. We would like to refer to item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, drawn up in Beijing on 29 June 2015. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 246. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 246 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted in favour, all in favour. I inform you that the Sejm unanimously passed the Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, drawn up in Beijing on 29 June 2015. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 276-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to present an additional report from the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. The Commission considered 40 amendments at its meeting yesterday. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt amendments 20, 34, 35 and 40, reject all others and adopt the law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u21	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of Draft Printing Law 276 and presents, as the rapporteur said, in an additional report of amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 29 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. In the first amendment, applicants propose, inter alia, to delete Article. 330 and Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 465. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Forty-two Members voted against - 246, 159 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose not to delete Article. 80a. Amendments 3, 6, 12, 15, 18, 19, 22, 23 and 36 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. The questions have been raised by Members. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u22	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Does not the government consider that the repeal of the article. 80a The Code of Criminal Procedure violates the constitutional right of defence and violates the defendant's right to a fair trial? This Article provides the defendant with a guarantee of real and real access to the defender, which the European Court of Human Rights considers to be a fundamental prerequisite for a fair trial. In addition, this provision constitutes the exercise of the constitutional right of defence under Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. In addition, it should be pointed out that Poland has committed itself to implementing the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings. These provisions of the directive are to be implemented in our legal system by 27 November 2016. Therefore, this amendment [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's completely legitimate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u23	Please. Right now, I'm asking Mr Arkadiusz Myrch from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Art. 80a, which the government proposes to delete, concerns an extremely important institution for citizens, namely a defender on demand. This amendment correlates with the new wording of the Article. 78 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is in its present form, that at the stage of the preliminary investigation, any person with low earnings has the right to apply for a public defender. The Code clearly uses the notion that this right is open to the suspect. After the changes proposed by the Law and Justice, the defender will only be entitled to the defendant, which is after the indictment has been formulated. Minister, please answer: Why do you restrict the rights of Poles not only to defence but also to a fair trial? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u25	There you go. The answer will be given by the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro. [[Voices from the hall: Boo...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, Mr President, I would kindly ask you to take a closer look at the content of the provisions in force and those which we propose, because it is worth asking questions that do not expose elementary ignorance. [[All-knowing...]] Namely, at the stage of the preliminary proceedings, the solution that is in force today, and which is introduced by the PO-PSL coalition, do not give the right to apply for a defence granted by a court or prosecutor, because it had to be a prosecutor at a certain stage of the preliminary investigation - such a right is granted only at the stage of judicial proceedings. Now, on the other hand, there is and will be a right, on the basis of the law of the poor, that those who cannot afford a lawyer may apply for a lawyer also at the stage of the proceedings, and the changes envisaged assume, and there will be no revolution here, that if the court considers that the person is not able to defend himself effectively, then he is obliged to grant such a person a defender. Let us also remember that in principle we change the philosophy of criminal proceedings and the role of the court in the case. So, at the stage of the court today, when we have an adversarial system, the court is not obliged to pursue the truth, it is not obliged to make an evidence initiative. [[Yes, sir!]] On the other hand, this change, which we are introducing, also gives much greater guarantees to the accused, because it obliges the court to investigate all the circumstances - all these circumstances which will also speak against the accused, must be carefully examined by the court, because it is obliged to seek to establish the material truth, not just the judicial truth, the formal truth. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u27	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 2, 3, 6, 12, 15, 18, 19, 22, 23 and 36, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 181 Members voted against - 261 and 5 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 90, 95 § 1, 171 § 2 and 370 § 1 applicants propose amendments concerning, inter alia, transparency of meetings and to delete the Article. 91, 95b and § 1 and 2 in Article 2 96. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 42 Members voted against - 243, 162 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 147 and Art. 358 The applicants propose amendments to the preservation of procedural activities by means of audiovisual equipment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who stopped it? 444 Members voted. 38 Members voted against - 244, 162 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to leave the article. 167 in the current version. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. There have been 178 Members voted against - 263, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to leave Article. 168a in the current version. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Ziobro! I'm not surprised that you don't see the difference in the matter recently, because for you, the suspect is equal to the defendant. [[Applause]] High Izbo! The government proposes to legalise the admission of evidence obtained under certain circumstances by means of a criminal offence. This is completely unacceptable in the current Code. The sad experiences of 2005 and 2007 have shown that such a necessity is necessary. However, the President has again entrusted the prosecutor's office to Superminister Zbigniew Ziobrze, and the special forces to the pardoned Mariusz Kaminski. Recently, Law and Justice have adopted extremely dangerous laws: the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Surveillance Act. This provision, which permits evidence obtained through a criminal offence, complements those dangerous laws. Minister, please answer: Why are you entering a lock? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the illegal activities of the services and the D.A.'s office? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u29	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 181 Members voted against - 261 and four Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 168b. Amendments 11, 30, 37 and 39 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question was asked by Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u30	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Your good change never sleeps and she's always hungry. And that's how she grew a real legal monster. And I don't mean Minister Zbigniew Ziobra at all... [[What do you mean, no?]] ...but so-called. the fruit of the poisoned tree contained in Article. 168 of this project, according to which material can be used... [[Do you have a mirror at home?]] ...from a wiretap set up in one case to prosecute a crime in which there's no consent at all, and the evidence from such a wiretap to use against a person who doesn't have a wiretap. [[What are you talking about?]] The D.A. would decide that, not the court, so far. With these rules, the PiS wants to legitimize the abuses that have emerged during its previous governments, including the abuse of powers to provoke police, and to make full use of the illegal wiretap so far. Another kind of abuse will be by eavesdropping on one person to eavesdrop on a completely different person, on which eavesdropping is not allowed, or for the detection of a crime. [[♪ The bell ♪]] not entitled to wear a wiretap. Does the government realize that this is destroying, for example. Lawyer's secret? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u31	We'll proceed with the vote. Ah, Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobro. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That is the case, the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Rights, is defending an ordinary citizen against criminals, betting on solutions that operate in most countries of the European Union, because in most countries of the European Union, contrary to the suggestion made in the Member's question, there is no prohibition on the use of the so-called. the fruit of the poisoned tree. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] In most European countries, such as Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, there could be further exchanges... [[Yes, sir.]] ...there's no so-called. follow-up. [[You don't know the language, so you don't know the law either.]] This is, you can say, a product which was almost only bred on the basis of Polish doctrine and Polish case law. So, ladies and gentlemen, back to normal, back to Europe. [[Yes, sir.]] We protect people from criminals. [[Applause]] It can't be that Mrs. Sawicka, who took a rude and cynical bribe, demanded this bribe, forced it, would be acquitted. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[It's a ground scandal.]] No more Sawicki. [[Applause]] Platform, wake up. That's it. No more bribery. No more bribery. [[Thrilling applause]] [[Adam G.! Adam G.! Adam G.!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u33	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 9, 11, 30, 37 and 39 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 184 voted against 261 and no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose that the Article. 202 plus § 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 43 Members voted against - 244, 158 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose to leave Article. 254 § 2 and Art. 258 § 2 in its current wording. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 175 Members voted against - 268, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose to leave Article. 287 § 2 in its current wording. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 181 Members voted against - 265, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment, applicants propose to leave Article. 328 § 2 as it stands. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 181 Members voted against - 265, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose amendments to the content of the indictment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. [[Keep your words up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Chronicity of proceedings and high costs are the greatest problem of criminal proceedings. The point, the amendment we are talking about at the moment, is to align the powers of the parties in criminal proceedings, so that the public prosecutor also has to present the circumstances on which the evidence is invoked. I have a question for the Minister of Justice: What is the purpose of favoring the defendant as a second aid? I don't see the point. The amendment seeks to rationalise costs and rationalise the period of procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u35	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 183 Members voted against - 258, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 343 applicants propose to add § 5a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 389 Members voted against - 54, 4 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 351 applicants propose amendments to the formation of the court. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 44 Members voted against - 246, 156 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. 464 applicants propose not to delete § 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 178 Members voted against - 265, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment to the article. 522 and 523 applicants propose amendments to the deletion. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 41 Members voted against - 241, 162 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 26th amendment, applicants propose to leave the article. 524 § 3 in the current version. Amendment 28 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Here Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, raises the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u36	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! In the case of such provisions, it is clear that we are heading towards the oppressive state. The provisions of the article. Points 124 and 128 of the draft amendment provide for an extension of the time limit for taking into account the deletion or reopening of proceedings to the detriment of the accused. However, both the deletion and the reopening of proceedings are extraordinary means for bringing forward final decisions. These are therefore exceptional measures, subject to strict conditions. As a result, it is difficult to find justification for the extension of the time limits referred to in Article. 524 § 3 and 542 § 5. The modern will always be against the construction of a police and oppressive state, and therefore calls for the legislation to be left to date. But we'd love to hear the government's opinion. Will the government's assessment of the extension of the deadline strengthen the principle of citizens' trust in the law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u37	Yes, will there be an answer? [[It won't.]] Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed change is related to the substance proposed by the government... [[Good change.]] ...the philosophy of criminal proceedings based on the pursuit of material truth, as I mentioned in my previous speech. Since we seek material truth, we need to find a balance between the formal guarantees of indisputability and the pursuit of this truth, which can be protected in exceptional circumstances by the power which only certain authorities of the State have to bring in the cassation or emergency measures to seek a just judgment. I will also remind you that this time limit has been running not since the Court's statement of reasons, sometimes it is months, especially when we are dealing with complex, multifaceted cases, but that time limit which we are proposing to extend to precisely those conditions and arguments which I have just presented to you has been running since the judgment was finalized, and thus since the Court of First Instance has already decided. That is why this is a fundamental change in our assessment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u39	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 26th and 28th would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 177 Members voted against - 267, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 27th amendment, the applicants propose not to add a chapter on the action against the judgment of the Court of Appeal. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 181 Members voted against - 265, with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. 618f applicants propose amendments to the expert's and specialist's remuneration in the event of incorrect implementation of the opinion. Amendment 38 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 29 and 38 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 181 Members voted against - 264, with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Corrections, I'm sorry. Amendments 31 to 34 were tabled in Article. 7 draft amending act containing amendments to the Penal Code Act. In the 31st amendment, the applicants propose not to delete Article. 59a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 181 Members voted against - 264, with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 32nd amendment, applicants propose not to delete Article. 60a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 179 Members voted against - 265, with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 33rd amendment to the article. 233 applicants propose that, among other things, leave § from 3 to 5 in the current version. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 34 irrelevant. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 182 Members voted against - 264, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 34th amendment to the article. 233 § 4 and 5 and added § 4a applicants shall propose amendments to the criminal rules relating to experts, experts and translators operating in judicial proceedings. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 235 Members voted against - 210, two Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 35th amendment to the article. 9 a draft amending act containing amendments to the Tax Code of the applicant proposes to add a reference in Article. 122 § Point 1 (1). The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Two Members have voted in favour, against - 216. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 40th amendment to the article. The 28th Law amending the applicant proposes to amend the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the draft law. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 40th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 231 Members voted against - 213, 2 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that there is a legislative hybrid war in front of our eyes? This is a hybrid war between Law and Justice and the democratic institutions... [[Get your shit together!]] ...the state of law [[Applause]] and civil rights and freedoms. After the Constitutional Tribunal Act with an attempt to block this institution, the Civil Service Act destroying the civil corps, the Law on the Prosecution of the Defendant... [[The stamp's gone.]] ...prosecution for one policy option, the Police Act introducing citizen surveillance on the Internet has come the time for a Code of Criminal Procedure, during which amendments are smuggled out provisions that effectively restrict citizens' rights and freedoms, including the right to a fair defence, legalising criminal evidence, and above all, rules are introduced that deprive courts of control of the use of information obtained from wiretapping and surveillance on the Internet, which directly violates citizens' rights to privacy and protection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] correspondence. It's nothing more than the introduction of a police state... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] ...to which the Modern won't allow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u41	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club. [[Just something smart.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister Gowin! Right now, your flagship project is going into the trash. How do you vote on the current changes at the moment? I'm very curious. Ladies and gentlemen! In July 2015, a major reform of criminal proceedings came into force. It was primarily aimed at improving judicial proceedings, the first results of which are already visible today: a huge increase in cases ending consensually, i.e. reconciliation of the victim with the perpetrator, followed by a reduction in the number of indictments, resulting in the burden of the courts' work. However, Law and Justice once again gives Poles chaos. It is making huge changes after several months of the reform of criminal proceedings. Minister, justice is not a playground where toys can be changed all the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an area which is extremely sensitive and relevant to the functioning of the democratic state. It always requires gradual, but important, reasonable changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u43	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor. I'd just ask for a question, not a statement, because we have a round of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! There's a new concept in front of our eyes. [[Hybrid war.]] This concept is an old-fashioned law, [[Applause]] so reckless, thoughtless, hasty return to everything that was in the Polish justice system, and it is best for those institutions where the extension of political power can be applied best and most effectively. A question for the Minister of Justice. [[He doesn't understand.]] What is the reason for seeking to change material truth through all cases? The whole world today's justice system, the criminal trial is based on the principle of adversariality. [[Have you done your research?]] It works in the world. Why do you insist on material truth, the principle of inquisition in criminal proceedings? Thank you very much. [[Because that's the most important thing.]] [[The whole PSL thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u45	With one remark, sir. The expression "maniac stubbornness" is not an adequate expression. [[Of course not.]] There you go, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, the D.A.'s office gets full power. [[Good.]] On the other hand, the process is still inquisition, it will continue to focus on psychiatric research, it will continue not to record and we will do what we want, the rooms will continue to be closed, the meetings will continue to be secret. If you give the D.A. a lot of power, there must be social control. There's no such thing as social control. [[Applause]] Everything is rejected, everything is stopped. How do you want to change that? You've been secreting the criminal trial for 20 years. And he's doing it and PO, and PiS, and he's starting to do it Modern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u47	Thank you very much. However, I would only ask Members to ask questions about this bill and not to refer to polemics in all matters. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u48	Minister! I have a question as to whether, under the rule of this law, it will be possible for such a situation as we had some time ago, that the Central Anti-corruption Office caught one of the activists of the Civic Platform, who had taken, to take 150,000. bribes, and the property guarantee for this Member was 100,000. zł. Therefore, I have a question: are these situations... [[Maybe a few words about Minister July?]] ...under the rule of this bill will take place? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u49	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Zbigniew Ziobro will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government's submission of changes in the criminal procedure is the implementation of the commitments we made during the election campaign, the fulfilment of the commitments of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, is the implementation of a good change - a good change in the justice system. This change doesn't serve criminals... [[Uh-huh.]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...this change doesn't serve the rich, this change serves the people, [[Applause]] who are to be effectively protected by the justice system. With regard to the specific questions that have been raised here, I can say that often the doubts which multiply or which are multiplied with regard to the government's submission, I believe, are due to a lack of full discernment. [[Yes, sir.]] An example is the question of Mr PSL, who just said that the principle, the standard in Europe, is the adversarial proceedings in criminal law. Well, sir, do not mislead the High House, the honourable House. It's not a rule, it's an exception to the rule... [[Yes, sir.]] ...which after the change in Poland will be preserved only in one country, namely Italy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I have another piece of information for you, and for you, by the way, that there is a very serious debate in Italy about the withdrawal of this country from the adversarial... [[Exactly.]] ...because this adversariality has led to the greatest collapse of justice in this country. [[Applause]] A million cases - check - over the past few years it has expired in Italy, including cases related to gangsters and the mob, because there is an adversariality that doesn't work, which has broken down the justice system there. [[That's what they're after.]] Germany, France, Belgium, European countries - because I hope you include these countries I have mentioned - do not have an adversarial process. So we also go back to the European standard, but - most importantly - we refer to reason and we go back to what is good for Poles, good for Poland, good for the effective defence of society against criminals. [[It's so unbelievable that...]] And yet this short time - short, but very eloquent, in terms of data - showed that this system also worked very badly in Poland, led to de facto collapse... [[Yes, sir.]] ...because for the first 3 months, if we look at the Warsaw appeal, the number of indictments that went to the courts decreased by 2/3 in the Warsaw appeal - just within the first 3 months of the operation of this new, supposedly good change of PO-PSL. [[Voices from the O.R.: Publish your sentence!]] So we're pulling out of these bad solutions, we're making good, tested, with some modifications. We are also making some changes that have not yet been made, e.g. draw of the judges. We want to introduce as a guarantee that judges will not be assigned to the head of the department, but that this will be an objective process. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] So, to sum up, we eliminate the law of good for the rich, only for the rich, we eliminate the privileges of criminals and gangsters, we hand over the criminal trial to society. [[Yes, sir.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u51	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 276, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 234 Members voted against - 208, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. [[Applause]] We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Enforcement Code Act. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 271. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 271, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 439 voted against, no one voted against, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Penal Code Act and the Penal Code Act. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister, what do farmers deserve to be treated like this? How did they deserve such a great dislike and such a great lack of trust? This bill, which you have presented to us, is an attack on property, value and inheritance. [[Applause]] That came out of that podium yesterday. That's what all of us in the parliamentary offices hear every day. Please, do not destroy the property, value and inheritance of Polish farmers. It's a bad bill, it's a law that introduces chaos in the country. It is a law that builds the next official, a super-officer, who will decide whether the land belongs to the owner, to the farmer, or whether it will be taken away from him. It's actually an agricultural nationalization agency, it's not gonna be an agricultural real estate agency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We ask and demand that you withdraw from this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u53	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have a question about this project: Isn't the Prime Minister considering withdrawing from this project? This is an important project concerning the marketing of Polish land, but a project harmful, in many places harmful. You hide yourself, presenting it to the High House, that it is intended to protect Polish land from being bought by foreigners, and in fact in its content this project treats Polish farmers as the most alien in the Polish village, so withdraw from treating Polish farmers as aliens and throw away this project. You are not taking any risk here, because from 1 May the project will be in force, there will be a law which, thanks to your vote, will also protect Polish land from foreigners thanks to the signature of President Andrzej Duda from 1 May 2016. The project you have prepared is also harmful because it does not only prevent Polish farmers from expanding their farms on the basis of national land, but also makes it difficult for farmers to expand their farms to land, which today is in private stock. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, this project also enters the law of inheritance with dirty shoes in the sacred Polish village. Get out of this. You will come out with a face and do more good for Polish agriculture than you will when you continue in this error. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights concerning property rights, the legislator should maintain a reasonable proportion between the measures applied and the objective to be pursued. In limiting the exercise of property rights, the needs of the social interest and requirements relating to the rights of the individual should be balanced. The proposed law is not the voice of reason. It violates property rights, freedom of economic activity, equality between Poles and the law. He focuses too many rights in the hands of the agency, its president and the minister of agriculture. This manual earth control in Poland is completely unacceptable to us. And my question is, are you able to trust Poles and not make them illegal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u57	Please. Mr Robert Winnicki, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem with the laws on the protection of Polish land against the sale to foreigners is that the debate on this issue does not concern the substance. And the point is that, in the current legal state within the European Union, if Poland does not negotiate any discount in this respect, does not negotiate special conditions, it is not possible to protect Poland's land effectively, in the same legal state as it is in the European Union. Therefore, what Poland should seek, what the government should seek, is simply like the British, both in terms of land and some other issues, to start negotiating a discount, to start negotiating other conditions, because we are unable to protect the land in the form that the European Union imposes on us. And that's a cloud case, not one version or another of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u59	There you go. Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Most of the comments that have been made in the debate, also repeated today, refer to some mythical ideas, not to the provisions of a specific draft law in print no. 293. These solutions correspond to the expectations of Polish farmers... [[Yeah, right, man.]] ...even in numerous protests. They are similar to solutions in many countries of the European Union and effectively protect the Polish land. At the same time, I would like to make a declaration - this is also the declaration made by the government - that the comments and proposals that will actually improve this law will be examined very seriously at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, so that this law eliminates the various minor shortcomings noticed. On the other hand, its direction coincides with the expectations of Polish farmers and will serve Poland and Polish agriculture well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u61	Thank you. [[That's not true. It is a shame for the Polish parliament to adopt such a law.]] [[Shame!]] I understand that Mr Ardanowski made a declaration on his own behalf. Or on behalf of a group of Members? [[My own.]] My own. Good. The government represents Minister Zbigniew Babalski at this point. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday, more than three hours of discussion in this Chamber concerned, practically speaking, the same issues that had been raised at the moment by individual representatives of certain clubs. I asked in a few of my speeches during this discussion to get a detailed overview of print number 293, which clearly and precisely shows why we are going out with such a project. I also said this sentence: there would be no such discussion in this Chamber if there were no protests in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, as well as in the whole of Poland, if there had not been a green town for four months, which was under the office of the then Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic. This discussion wouldn't have happened. Who showed the need for these changes? Politicians or farmers? Farmers have shown the need for these changes, [[Applause]] Not us. [[That's not true.]] This change... [[That's not true.]] ...the draft of this law, in its form or similar, should be adopted by the Sejm and protect the Polish land at the time when the constitution was adopted. I'm skipping who took it. SLD and PSL. But that's where it's written in the article. 23, ladies and gentlemen, the basis of the agricultural system in the Republic of Poland is the family farm. And we're doing it now. [[Applause]] I declare to you, and above all this statement I address to the Polish village and Polish farmers. [[There's nothing from the statements. It's from the provisions of the bill.]] The land is not in danger. The basis will be lease. The suspension of sales concerns the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. [[1.5 million ha.]] We will lease this land to Polish farmers so that they can... [[Yes, sir!]] ...found farms and expand their farms. Don't lie to me! [[Applause]] Don't lie, don't scare Polish farmers. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Scandal!]] And then, by no means, in any record... [[Have some water.]] ...in this bill - yesterday I asked you to read this country - there is no danger of inheritance, a donation agreement... [[Yes, sir.]] ...life or sale to a loved one, because that's a form too. The agency has no right to interfere in any way. [[Applause]] Read this, it's written in the bill. [[That means you don't know the bill.]] [[You haven't read this bill.]] Please, today, yesterday I did this and today I'm asking you - I invite you, yesterday I invite you and today I invite you... [[Read it yourself.]] ...let's sit on the agriculture committee and talk. Krzysztof Ardanowski's colleague will also confirm this - when it comes to good comments... [[But you need to read it with understanding.]] ...good amendments, we'll discuss them. If we think they're good right now, we'll put them in the bill. Yesterday we officially started a discussion on this printing. There is an incredible venom spilling across the country when it comes to inciting the Polish village. [[Yes, sir!]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: That is not true!]] Polish farmers can be calm. Now is the rhetorical question: Is the earth meant to be used to trade its turnover, or is it intended to fulfill the basic task... [[You know best.]] ...to be cultivated by a farmer and produce Polish good food? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Down with the commune!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u63	Thank you. A formal request was made by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I did not call anyone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen... [[No hysteria.]] That bleacher isn't true. There are lies coming out of this bleacher. [[Get down!]] You can't do that. The Prime Minister, in an exposé, both the Minister and the Prime Minister, you have said the wrong thing. [[That's a formal conclusion?]] [[Voice from the hall: But what are you talking about?]] For example, production cooperatives, companies, there are family farms, families have their land - you banned them from expanding the area and living. Even this applies to land that we use after 30, 40 years. [[Applause]] It's not like there's a trade here. [[Voice from the hall: How many acres do you have?]] This is the land for the life and being of these people. [[Voice from the hall: How many acres do you have?]] That's cheating. [[That's right, they cheat.]] From this bleacher, from this parliament comes the information false.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u65	Mr President, can you make a formal request? [[He's got time.]] [[He can't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u66	I ask the Minister: Did the Polish village expect such changes? The Polish countryside does not expect such changes. There's no danger... [[Voice from the room: Waiting!]] ...there is no danger that suddenly, like meteors, foreigners will land here in Poland and buy the entire Polish land. [[There it is.]] There's no such threat. [[There he is!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Poles want land for themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u67	However, I would ask you to make a formal proposal. [[But don't interrupt.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u68	You mustn't lie from Parliament's bleachers. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion!]] [[That's right, you can't do that!]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You mustn't lie at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u69	Ms Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club, came forward as corrected. [[Voice from the room: What corrigendum?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! The Minister accused us of not reading the bill. Yesterday we gave an example of a statutory record that says that if, in the event of an inheritance or inheritance, the person who inherits, or is a buyer, does not carry out agricultural activities, the agency may take away from him, Minister, the farm. [[Scandal! Disgraceful!]] Minister, I'll prove to you how we don't read. That's Article 12's change. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: If the purchaser of agricultural property during the period referred to in Article. 2 (2) 1 has not undertaken or ceased the holding and, in the case of a natural person, the holding in which the acquired role is held or does not carry out his duties, the court shall, at the request of the agency, decide on the acquisition of ownership of that property by an agency acting in favour of the Treasury. We can read. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]] [[Down with the commune!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, both earlier, Mr... [[Voice from the room: Aichler.]] ... Ajchler, as well as Mrs Niedziela, appear in polemics, not formal proposals or corrections. [[Yes, sir.]] I remind you... [[You can't lie.]] ...Mr Maliszewski will now take the floor in the correction procedure that the corrigendum concerns... [[In defense of the truth.]] ... misunderstood or misconceptioned by the speaker. Here you go, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u72	The Minister misunderstood me when he said we didn't read this project, so I want to correct it. [[But there was no talking about it.]] Well, we have read this project and I would recommend to the Minister - not only to read it thoroughly, [[Applause]] but also analyze the exact design. I would also recommend that you listen not only to the opposition, but also to the coalition, but also to yourself. You say this project is not an assassination of property in the Polish village. Yesterday, you made it clear that there was an art. 23 of the constitution, which says that the basis of the agricultural system in Poland is a family farm, but then you raised the whole grain, said how this project supports family farms in order to end the thesis: in order to ensure the food security of Poland, we can adopt such laws that can break sacred property rights. That's what you said. [[Applause]] I would've been there for you. He recommended a thorough analysis of what you write, what you say, and listening to everyone in this room, as well as yourself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u73	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, is yet to be corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is true that some of the very bad provisions of this law have been corrected, but the amendments made during the work on this project in government benches are far too little. Isn't it true, Minister, that today a person who introduced his father to a company of commercial law or to a partnership today loses complete control of it and may have trouble handing over this father to his successors on this farm? You're generalizing problems. It is true that many bad things with Polish soil in Poland were happening, but by generalising the problem and raising the problem to the level of collective responsibility, you are rejecting the management in the countryside of many people who managed the Polish land well and brought good news about the Polish village around the world. Not to mention you're not letting new fresh people in on this project... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: We allow, only need to be qualified.]] ...which maybe in the future could be great hosts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u75	Four speeches, ladies and gentlemen, and one vote, Mr Maliszewski, which I can accept as a rule. [[Applause]] [[Formal conclusion.]] The formal proposal was made by Michał Jach, a club called Law and Justice. I'd just like a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u76	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal, I am making a formal request for a break and a call to the Senior Convention to explain to the Members of the opposition what was the unimaginable pathology of land trafficking. [[Voice from the Chamber: What is the formal conclusion?]] [[This is not a formal conclusion!]] Mr Marshal, I would like to explain to the Members of the opposition what they were doing, why they didn't help those farmers who protested last year... [[They thought they were losers, that's why.]] ...against speculative land turnover, and the police arrested them the way they arrested the worst gangsters. I would like to say that according to the Ministry of the Interior, there are 60,000 in the hands of foreigners. ha. [[Voice from the room: 200.]] What the government of the previous coalition did to limit such a situation when only one Danish company in the West Pomeranian province... [[A voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, is this a formal conclusion? And you're not responding?]] ...has 20,000. Ha, and the Home Office doesn't have a clue? There are at least five such companies in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship itself. Thank you. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[It's not all Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u77	This formal request may be considered, ladies and gentlemen, after the vote... [[But what is the formal conclusion?]] ...if the Member sustains him... [[What kind of motion was that?]] ...because I think these issues can be discussed in committee if the Sejm makes such a decision. At the moment, Minister of Agriculture Mr Zbigniew Babalski has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u78	Maybe now that these emotions are gone, I want to say yes, on the committee, I'll present them. There is a document - I say this, and I particularly appeal to Euro-enthusiasts - that is the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee. In this committee there are representatives of all Member States, more than 20 people are from Poland, we have representatives there. And what happened? On 15 January 2015, this Communication, this opinion, was forwarded to the European Commission and the European Council. I will present to you in the committee what is said about Poland - that although there was a moratorium on free sale, free trade in Polish agricultural land... [[And woodland.]] ...it is estimated that during this period, over a period of 12 years, it is too much for other citizens, members of the European Union, including companies, about 200,000. ha agricultural land. Isn't that also the reason why we should be forced to do what's left... [[They're not gonna take this land away.]] Because there's very little left, about 1.5 million ha... [[They're gonna take this land out in bags?]] ...of which 400,000. He's in free circulation to sell yet... [[She's in the hands of the state. She'll be fine.]] ...and over 1 million in leases. Isn't that the bell for all of us so that at the end of this stage we can secure this land for the people who live on this land, produce and keep us... [[Yes, sir.]] ...because they produce good food? Isn't it about time? [[Applause]] PSL's accusing me of taking over, nationalizing. If you had come to this decisively eight years ago, when you took power, there would have been no topic today. [[Don't lie to me.]] There would be no strikes... [[Yes, sir.]] ...there would be no protest... [[What strikes?]] [[That's gonna be a strike!]] [[The strikes will be, Minister.]] It would have been settled a long time ago. [[Voice from the room: But it has been for six months.]] It's not regulated. The law that you introduced in August 2015 was totally criticised by the most important people interested in Polish soil, i.e. by agricultural chambers. You didn't get a recommendation on this bill from the farmhouse. Ladies and gentlemen, about this bill we have a positive recommendation... [[Tell that to the farmers.]] ...the agricultural self-government, the agricultural chambers. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] There are comments, they've given attention, but they said, "Good direction, go in this direction, we'll discuss it on the committee." Please continue to cooperate. [[Don't lie to me.]] Do not deceive the Polish village that the land must be free. Yesterday you said: What is this definition of a farmer, what is the definition of a farmer, let every host, as he can. Well, then maybe everyone should heal as well as they can. Let every law... Everyone be a judge as good as they can be. No. This can't be right. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[That's what's gonna happen in your day.]] We are guarding the Polish land and the power of farmers over this land. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: But you have to say that he speaks well.]] [[I won't comment, I respect you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u79	Thank you. The formal application is submitted by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, formal motion for a recess. I would ask that the Marshal convene the Senior Convention so that during the break we may once again explain to the Minister that, in the previous term of office, the entire Chamber together, including the PiS Parliamentary Club, voted in favour of the Law on the Protection of Polish Land. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It was signed by President Duda. You today express doubt in millions of citizens with the first citizen of the Republic of Poland, President Andrzej Duda, at the head. [[Don't yell.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] Why are you doubting the president? He wouldn't have signed a bad bill. [[They don't trust him.]] [[Voice from the room: It's better.]] He would not sign a law that does not protect Polish land. This law guarantees that a farmer can manage, protects farmers, protects Polish land from foreigners. And your law aligns Polish farmers with foreigners, with foreigners, because it also blocks their access to the land, to the development of their farms. You do not want to respect Polish farmers and do not believe them. You only believe in institutions. [[They believe each other.]] You do not give faith to the Polish peasant that he will take care of his father, that he will take care of his children, take care of good cultivation. You don't believe him because you don't understand him. [[They don't believe anyone.]] You cheated Polish farmers in the election. Today they say: a good change is too good for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u81	Minister of Agriculture, Mr Zbigniew Babalski. [[Where's Jurgel? Is he asleep?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u82	Minister! I'm just waiting for you to calm down a little bit. [[Voice from the room: Sleeping?]] No, he's awake. Minister, if this Act of 15 August 2015 is so good, please tell us why people come to our offices and probably to your offices who are not 40 years old and say yes to me. [[What do you mean they didn't finish?]] [[This is outrageous!]] Mr President, Minister, what is this? We're young farmers. The bill you introduced in August... [[We're in! You did, too.]] ...to acquire land in the form of purchase or lease if the holding has not been kept for at least five years. That's what it says. What are we proposing? [[Even worse.]] We're shutting it down. Young people who are farmers don't have to host for five years, but if they're in the country, they have a farm and they want to expand it, they can buy it or get a lease. [[Applause]] Here we open a path for young farmers who demand it. What's going on today, ladies and gentlemen? They come and ask, also to the agency: Minister, stop these leases, stop these sales immediately, because if you introduce this bill, you will give us a chance that we will be able to apply immediately for the lease of land from resources on May 2nd. We will be able to take part in limited tenders or offers. Today we have no right to do that. That bill was good, Minister. [[Absolutely not.]] [[That's a lie.]] I invite you to work again during the legislative process. Thank you. Goodbye. [[Goodbye.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u83	There is a vote against the formal proposal submitted by Mr Kosiniak-Kamish. Member Robert Telus. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to make a motion against so that we move on to the vote because farmers are waiting for this bill. [[They're not waiting.]] Farmers, Polish farmers are waiting for this bill because Polish farmers protested against the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Because that government, those politicians were trying to sell, they were selling Polish land to foreigners. [[Yes, sir.]] And Polish farmers went out on the street to protest. [[Vladek, where were you?]] This law does not concern the policies of the Civic Platform or the Polish People's Party. Why? [[Or PiS.]] 'Cause it's over, folks, with your ice cream shot. We're done here. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Because Polish farmers want to farm on Polish land and defend Polish land. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Committee on the Ethics of the European Union.]] Law and Justice politicians will always defend Polish land. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you've sold 200,000. ha. The Polish People's Party with the Civic Platform sold 200,000. ha foreigners method for poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear country, at Elewarr, the guys paid their 1 million 400 PLN. [[But whose? Yours?]] Even when the Supreme Auditorium said it was a mistake, they didn't pay off. Gentlemen of the PSL and 281 million prizes paid out of the ArimR for your guys? This is defending Polish interests of Polish agriculture? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] That's enough. As Law and Justice, we will end up making ice cream. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Sit down!]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Robert!]] [[Mr. Marshal, this is a scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u85	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no 293 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 186 Members voted against - 245, 9 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. [[Applause]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Mr Marshal...]] [[Vladek, go!]] [[Vladek, show yourself.]] We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on the safety of trade in explosives precursors (prints 217, 237 and 237-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u86	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft Act on the Safety of Trafficking in Explosive Precursors, print No 217, included in print No 237-A. Ladies and gentlemen! Two sentences about the bill itself. It serves the application of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. Those provisions allow the marketing of substances from which explosives may arise to be supervised. These are the precursors, these substances. This law creates a nationwide register of reporting of suspicious transactions, attempts to make such transactions, establishes a national contact point, determines the tasks of the authorities responsible for control and establishes sanctions for infringements. I shall now proceed to the discussion of the committee's work. Ladies and gentlemen, after first reading, the committees requested the adoption of the law, but three amendments were tabled during the second reading. On 24 February 2016, the Sejm again referred the draft to the committee for consideration. The Commissions: Administration and Home Affairs and Economy and Development, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 8 March 2016, request the adoption of all three amendments tabled and the whole project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u87	Thank you very much. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 237. The committees also present in an additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the draft law, the applicant proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The committees are asking for an amendment. The questions have been raised by Members. Mr. Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In a moment, we will be voting on the unique legislative bubble produced by EU bureaucracy. [[Applause]] This is a special thing. This bullshit, if implemented in Polish legislation, will only litter it. I have a question for applicants: Why do such things happen in Polish legislation? At the same time, why do you with your three amendments withdraw all three amendments that were previously accepted by the committee and tabled by Kukiz15, which guaranteed that the oppression of this law would be less? [[Applause]] The second question I have for Members of Law and Justice and Modernity: What happened between one committee meeting and the other that you changed your mind? After all, you voted in favour of those amendments that were tabled by Kukiz15. [[Applause]] [[Because they don't like you anymore.]] Why don't you change your mind, not accept it, colloquially speaking, legal rottenness and allow it, really, not to litter the legal system in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can the Polish Parliament still afford to represent society and their own opinion, or are we just a machine to implement EU law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u89	Thank you. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To the Member who misled the High House and the public. First of all, in the cases you mentioned, there are judgments of the court that purify and inconclusive no guilt. I suggest you get to know them. [[Not about that.]] Secondly, on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the average monthly prizes are below PLN 300, i.e. 280 PLN, at frozen salaries for 7 years. [[How much of this did the management get? How much does a regular employee get?]] And now the question to your president, President Obejtek: How much will it cost to fire the workers of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? How much does the Treasury cost 3 months not to take advantage of the experience of ARiMR managers and deputies? How much is the delay in paying direct payments to agriculture? [[The question is how much a regular employee got. You have no idea.]] [[Get to the point!]] How much will the farmers pay for the other loans they have to pay because you don't pay them on time? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u91	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are on item 18 of the agenda. Would Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz like to comment? Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the government, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Ms Jadwiga Emilewicz, will perform. Of course, we're on item 18 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u92	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I understand I'm answering a question about the explosives precursors bill. Why the change and why the amendments? As the rapporteur said, the draft law creates a national reporting system, establishes a national contact point, identifies the tasks of the competent authorities and bodies, sets sanctions for infringements. This law, as the rapporteur mentioned, serves the implementation of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, so we are trying to implement it in the manner adopted by the government, and therefore, in accordance with the principle of "Europe+0" we do not overwrite, we add no more. The amendments which were tabled after the first reading by the Kukiz club15 would violate this principle, moreover, would imply incomplete implementation. An in-depth discussion with the European Commission would be needed at the next stages. Explosive precursors, not significant quantities. Even a small amount of a precursor is a dangerous material. I would remind you that the European Commission's process of this regulation was the result of events in Norway. The explosive was made by Breivik from the precursors. So even small amounts are a danger. Precursor, I remind you, that's 14 substances listed in the Annex to the Regulation. Applies to specific thickenings. This is not a substance which normally, in normal circulation, is any one of you, Members and Members of Parliament, for anything you need. Therefore, these proposed amendments are in line with the Government's submission and we are asking for them to be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u93	Thank you, Minister. [[Correct, Marshal.]] Mr. Bartosz Józwiak in correction mode. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, I would like to correct what the Minister said because the Minister said at the end... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...the minister said something that is not entirely true, that these are substances that we don't all need on a daily basis. Sorry, these are substances that do not have concentrations given by the directive, and this is, for example, sulphuric acid, they are various types of agricultural fertilisers, so they are also used every day by the Polish society or part of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u95	Yes, of course, the Member was correcting his misunderstood own statement. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. There were 403 Members voted against - 34, 3 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The 11th draft law of the applicant proposes to delete the words "significant quantities'. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. There were 386 Members voted against - 38, 16 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The 12th draft law of the applicant proposes to delete the words of significant quantities. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 383 Members voted against - 34, 18 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. So all the amendments have been accepted. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Nice.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 237, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 387 Members voted against - 35, 16 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the safety of trade in explosives precursors. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 317). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? I can't see, I can't hear. I'm closing, I mean. I'm not closing... [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 317, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 427 Members voted against - 2 and 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 51 hrs. 10 min 54]] I ask you to take your seats so that we can begin the next part of the Sejm. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Polish Language Council on the state of protection of Polish language for the years 2012-2013 (print No 89) together with the position of the Committee on Culture and Media (print No 256). I ask the Secretary of the Polish Language Council at the Bureau of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Mrs Katarzyna Kłosińska, to present a report. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Polish Language Council presents to the Sejm and the Senate...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u97	Wait a minute. Member of the Commission, allow your secretary to present a report. You're welcome. Secretary of the Polish Language Council at the Bureau of Mr Katarzyna Kłosińska: The Polish Language Council shall present a report to the Sejm and the Senate on the state of protection of the Polish language no less frequently than every 2 years. That's from the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Polish Language Protection Act. The report, which is the subject of today's discussion, which we will now discuss, concerns the Polish language used in documents in consumer trade. This is an expert study prepared by the Polish Language Council under the leadership of a team led by Prof. Halina Zgółkowa from Adam Mickiewicz University. In collecting documents we used the help of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. It appeared in such a way that the Polish Language Council examined or analyzed, i.e. This team studied, analyzed various kinds of texts. These were, here I will mention: leaflets attached to medicines, leaflets attached to parapharmaceuticals and cosmetics, manuals for household appliances, manuals for handling electronic equipment, banking, leasing, insurance and education contracts, telecommunications contracts and development contracts and municipal services. I would like to stress that these are very important texts for consumers, and at the same time those for which this consumer is passive and dependent on the information and provisions contained in these documents. Thus, the roles between the sender and the recipient are uneven here. The sender is a professional - e.g. Lawyer or marketing specialist, etc. - the recipient is not a professional. In addition, the matter to which the text relates, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] i.e. information about a drug or bank agreement, a credit agreement, is often a matter of vital importance or very important to the recipient. Therefore, it is very important to look not only at the correctness of the language text. Correctness is of course important, but it seems to us that the more important, or actually the most important, is the affordability of this text. This affordability consists of many factors. These are both the linguistic features of the text: lexics, the way the text is shaped, the way the sentence is shaped, the syntax, as well as non-lingual elements, and above all the editorial layer, i.e. e.g. font size, font size, interline size, etc. The purpose of this study was to describe the diagnostics, to identify factors that hinder the understanding of the text, and to provide guidance, and we have some proposals to ensure that similar texts are understood. And this is the aim, you can say, of general texts of this type, of this type of expertise would be to increase consumer awareness, i.e. So that the consumer knows that he has the right to have a document that he understands. Before I go to a brief discussion of these texts, let me say that the basic question that can be considered after analysing these texts is this: Does the form of these texts guarantee their readers conscious reading? I mean, is it someone who contains, for example. A telecommunication agreement or a bank agreement, consciously making a decision? Or, for example, Whoever buys a drug or a TV or a washing machine uses it consciously? If so, if this awareness is there, then we have an equal relationship between the consumer and the manufacturer or the trader. If there is no such awareness, then we have an unequal relationship, the consumer is in a lower position, which causes him to be excluded. And that's what I'm going to focus on in my speech. I will consciously overlook other aspects here, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to describe everything that is in more than 150 pages. I've mentioned different kinds of texts that have been analyzed before. I'll be brief on each one, and I'll give you an assessment of each of these kinds of texts. As far as leaflets are concerned, it can be said that this assessment is rather positive. However, there may be some reservations about the comprehension of certain information, e.g. specific names appear that are not explained. It must be said here that very good solutions have been used in leaflets for some medicines, as just attempts to approximate terminology by explanations used in parentheses. On the other hand, the syntax of these texts is quite complicated, they are even sentences of 30 words, which is actually very difficult to understand. It is therefore worth shortening your sentences. Sometimes the editing layer of the text is hostile, e.g. there is a small font or there is a black background and a white font. But in general, you can say that the leaflets attached to the medications are characterized by, were written in a good, accessible language, as well as the leaflets attached to the parapharmaceuticals. I'm not going to discuss this in detail. Anyway, this is a language that can be understood by an average Pole. As far as the information attached to cosmetics is concerned, here these texts are very diverse. I won't discuss each and every one of them, but I'll tell you what the most important charge is. Namely, there is a gross discrepancy between foreign language and Polish language information, to the detriment of Polish language, of course. On the packaging of cosmetics, mostly those imported from abroad, in English there is a very long, detailed description of what a cosmetic causes, how to use it, how not to use it, and in Polish it is often contained in two sentences or in one. There is often a mixed information with persuasion here, but this is a feature of advertising at all. There are adjectives like this. pleasant, velvety, rich or precious, which has no informational value, but persuasive. There are also a large number of englishisms, which are primarily persuasive, which are intended to nobilitate the product, some sun defense, slim & shape, etc. And that, you can say, is incomprehensible to a person who is less English, so here is also the element that excludes a certain part of society from consciously accepting these texts. As far as household appliances instructions are concerned, they are generally well prepared. The lyrics are understandable, accessible. There are few language errors, but they do not interfere with reception. However, further category, i.e. instructions for handling electronic equipment, these texts should be assessed very badly. In other words, the text of such instruction is actually, you can say, completely incomprehensible to the layman. Very specialized vocabulary appears. Electronic equipment are TVs, mobile phones, various such instructions have been examined. Specialized vocabulary appears, often English-speaking terms, e.g. common interface, support menu, media play, etc. Words happen quite often, which are known in general language, but here they are used in terminology, of which the user does not realize. In other words, e.g. removing links between notes. The word note is known in Polish, but changing the layout of active notes or removing the links between notes is already something incomprehensible. Often there is a complex syntax and very often these are explanations of the type of ignatum per ignotum, which is unknown by unknown. That is, for example.: Optimus is a GPU switching mechanism that automatically switches the active GPU to perform image rendering tasks. Someone who wants to know what this optimus is, by that definition, will never know. In conclusion, these instructions for handling electronic equipment are so constructed that the relationship between the sender and the recipient is uneven, i.e. the recipient is in a pre-emptive position. Here we should consider, for example, whether we should not prepare two versions of the instructions: one for the layman, the other for the specialist. The next category is banking contracts for deposits and loans, leasing contracts (consumer leasing), insurance, education (university education). We have a lot of reservations about language correctness. There are a lot of punctuation errors that often lead to a change in the meaning of the text. There's a lot of bad spelling, there's always a big letter. Everything is written in capital letters, e.g. the date of the contract, something is to take place 14 days from the date of the contract and this is the date of the contract written in capital letters, but what is most important and what causes the exclusion of the recipient, this inequality of the relationship, is that the recipient cannot knowingly, so to speak, sign this contract, it is not available syntax. The sentences are very long, the longest sentence found there was 119 words, so you can't understand that. Usually there are about 40 words in one sentence, so it's probably understandable only for those who write it. Definitely the recipient of such a contract, and this is, as I say, a contract e.g. concerning loans, he is an excluded person. With regard to telecommunications contracts, i.e. the use of mobile telephones and fixed cable and network television, they must also be assessed very badly. There is a very poor communication of the text. The text is very often illegible, saturated with terminology and jargon vocabulary, where this vocabulary might not be, e.g. the ordering channel. The ordering channel is simply a way, whether telephone or e-mail. Or a client's statement about the lack of willingness to continue the contract. Indeed, such a sentence as the customer's statement on the absence of a continuation of the contract can be expressed in a much more accessible way. These texts are extremely complicated, I am talking about telecommunication contracts, in terms of syntax. The sentences count about a dozen words, and the longest was 176 words. It's impossible to read or understand. There are also a lot of language errors, especially punctuation errors, which affect the change of meaning. The text is also non-transparent structurally and editorially, i.e. missing e.g. Intertitles, no paragraph names, which makes it harder to find the information you need. Font size, ladies and gentlemen, 7 or 8 points on interline 1, is a single interline. You just can't read it. There are also documents printed in the layout of two columns, where the font is even smaller, i.e. He's got six points. These texts have been tested for clarity or can be said otherwise: foggyness, i.e. there are such special tools, available generally on the Internet, one is the FOG, created by specialists from the University of Wroclaw, the other - Jasnapis, created by the University of SWPS. These are the tools that you can put the text into and see how many years of education you need to have to understand this text. It turns out that the contracts I'm talking about here, the telecommunications contracts, are only understandable to post-doctoral students. You have to have as many years to study as all schools expect, plus college, plus doctoral studies to understand these contracts. I have fragments here, but maybe I can spare you the reading. It may therefore be felt that these documents are prepared by their authors so as to safeguard only the interest of the sender and discourage the recipient from reading the content of the contract. The authors of these documents do not care about the clarity of the transmission. As I was just saying, these texts are very difficult to understand only by post-doctoral students. Interestingly, the content of telecommunications contracts is governed by the law. It would be good to include provisions on the need to use an understandable language in this law. At the moment, standards are being developed that say what language is understood, and with the help of specialists it can be defined. As regards the last category, development contracts and municipal services, i.e. supply of electricity, gas, lease contracts, these are very different types of text, so this assessment is also different. There are lyrics written very easily, as well as texts that are not written easily at all, e.g. In development contracts there are sentences of almost 300 words, again illegible. Of course, too often specialist terminology appears. And now, to sum up what I have said here, I would like to stress that the greatest reservations are raised by telecommunications agreements and banking and development agreements. Please note that these three types of contracts, i.e. particularly banking and development, i.e. these two, concern very important matters of life: credit or buying an apartment and are written in a language that does not guarantee understanding. This makes the citizen in a pre-emptive position. The general conclusion that could be drawn from this and what the Polish Language Council calls for is that standards should be prepared for the development of such texts. As I said before, it can be done with the help of linguistics. Another thing, this would already be the task for the legislator, is to create a legal framework that would allow broadcasters to require that such texts be written in an understandable language, so as not to exclude parts of society, so that the consumer is not in a lost position. Finally, statistical notes, namely that Poles are in trouble, for example. with reading difficult texts. As shown by the International Adult Competency Survey conducted at the turn of 2011 and 2012, only 10% Poles aged 18 to 65 are good at reading with understanding, only 10% as much as 20% are doing very poorly. That is why it is so important that these texts are written in an understandable language. From another study, from the study GfK Polonia it appears that only 16% Polish people read the contract carefully before signing it, and as a reason for not reading it, it is precisely that it is written in too difficult a language, that it is not linguisticly available, and that it is too long. Of course, a separate issue that should be considered, but I think that this is no longer the subject of this discussion, is to increase the language competence of Poles. It's about some kind of change in just reading with understanding, but this, I think, case for another occasion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I would like to ask Mr Jack the World to present the position of the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Madam Secretary! High Izbo! Polish Language Council in accordance with Art. 12 point 2 of the Polish Language Act provides the Sejm with a 2-year report on the state of protection of the Polish language. At its meeting on 25 February, the Committee on Culture and Media discussed the Council's report for 2012 and 2013. After a discussion, which is very interesting, the committee unanimously recommends that the High House adopt the report. So much for my dry report. Two more comments, by the way. The Council's report was ready six months ago, unfortunately, the crowd of cases at the end of the term of office made it impossible for the Sejm of the previous term of office to consider it, hence the delay, which is why we are only dealing with the years 2012 and 2013. I wouldn't want the High House to feel that this delay is the result of the committee's disregard for the issues of Polish protection. I hope - I think I can declare this on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media - that we will try to work in the future without undue delay. And the second thing, very important. Once again, the Polish Language Council drew attention to the lack of stable funding. I will remind you that the council is located at the bureau of the Polish Academy of Sciences, and repeats - because also in that term, and present - the relations, which are problems with obtaining even modest, tens of thousands of amounts for carrying out research or expertise. I think that the Committee on Culture and Media will take this matter, I think that in the form of a dissertation to the government, to provide stable funding for the future of the Polish Language Council. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u99	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Madam Secretary! High Seym! 3 weeks ago, on the occasion of the International Day of Polish Language in the Presidential Palace, a medal award deserved for Poland took place. President Andrzej Duda honored Professor Jerzy Bartminski with this award. The professor, receiving the award, said an important thing: Polish today is in need. He pointed out that apart from vulgarisation and the flood of loans, there is also a third, most serious threat: hate speech, a hat, which is combined with the practice of lies and innuendo. According to the Polish Language Act every 2 years, the Polish Language Council presents a report to the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the state of protection of the Polish language. In the first two reports, 10 years ago, the Council included a discussion of the state of protection of Polish language in various areas of life. They were published in the book.Public Poland at the beginning of the 21st century, published in 2007. Then the board decided to leave this type of analysis. It did not seem advisable to analyse in the current report the same areas of public linguistic activity, whose conservation status was assessed 2, 3 or 4 years ago. Changes in the language, even with the current, extremely intense development of the language, do not occur so quickly that there are clear and significant differences over a period of several years - we read on the advice pages. In the third report, school textbooks were the subject of the observation of language status, and the board followed this assumption further. In the next one it was an analysis of business language, school textbooks for vocational training and language culture in higher education. The results of the analysis, of course, were not upbuilding. It usually turned out that Polish language is not treated as it should result from its role in social life in contemporary Poland. The most critical remarks aroused the attitude towards Polish in the business environment. The language is not perceived by the authors of texts in this area, and also by business decision makers as a value in itself, the value to be cultivated, but at most as an instrumental value, a tool for conveying certain content - we read in that report. Now we have another one for the years 2012 and 2013. In this report, which was presented in the previous mandate, the Council presented an analysis of manuals for household appliances, electronic equipment, banking, insurance and educational contracts, telecommunications and development contracts, and leaflets for medicines and parapharmaceutical products, not to mention texts on cosmetics packages. However, this very careful analysis seems, almost 10 years after the analysis of Polish language in public space, far insufficient to be able to talk about the current state of Polish, to notice what happened in the language, especially in the language of public debate, media transmission, also everyday conversations of Poles, in those years. The year 2012 is, I will remind you, the time of the scorn industry in bloom. The heyt, which Professor Jerzy Bartminski spoke about a few days ago, reigned in the debate. The word "heyt" just entered the common sense. Gowin behaves like a Catholic faggot, Tusk has politically let go of Lech Kaczyński's drunken trip - such phrases not so old politics of the Civic Platform Janusz Palikot, just said in 2012, are actually less pleasant to analyze than leaflets attached to drugs. Or let's remember February 2012. Stefan Niesiołowski, one of the most famous and quoted politicians of the Civic Platform, said so e.g. About Jan Tomaszewski: He's a simple guy and one of the biggest calibres. Ewa Stankiewicz, when she introduced herself in May 2012 and asked Stefan Niesiołowski a question, heard such an answer: Are you from this movie "Solidarni" from this PiS nasty? Then the Civic Platform politician tried to cover up the camera lens and threw it several times: Get out of here. I agree with your choice of council. It's much nicer to take care of the washing machine manual. There is at least no simpleness and rudeness on a purely linguistic level. Of course, it is not about the Polish Language Council dealing with politics or focusing solely on the language of the public debate, but the phenomenon is worth noting. After what language operations were used in the public debate against the dead. Lech Kaczyński in the years 2005 and 2010 as well as after the wave of aggression and exclusion against his brother Jarosław Kaczyński and other families of victims of the Smolensk catastrophe, after the unprecedented contempt for the dead in this tragedy, heard already in the language layer of many public as well as private, implicated by this public hat of conversations of ordinary Poles, how can one not notice this phenomenon? And yet it is already described. I'll just remind you of Stanisław Kmiesik's loud book, the idea of contempt. Destroying the image of President Lech Kaczyński in 2005 and after his death, and another contempt industry that describes the same treatments, also in a purely linguistic manner, directed against Jarosław Kaczyński. This industry of contempt, the violence contained in the language itself, is a dominating phenomenon of the last decade. Unnoticed when dealing with the condition of Polish language, it may resemble a similar method, although while maintaining all proportions, to the one previously described by Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz, which applied to the tactics of the Illustrated Tygodnik from 1863. In a loud speech entitled: There is no Poland, there is no Russia, there was no uprising.Jarosław Marek Rymkiewicz said: It is not possible to say that the editors of the Illustrated Tygodnik have given some false messages. It seems to me that they usually wrote the truth, or maybe they always wrote the truth, but you can also see at once that when they wrote the truth, they were horribly lying in shame. Of course, I am not saying that the experts of the Polish Language Council deserve such a sharp assessment. No, they certainly don't. However, it is worth asking whether the manuals for handling toasters are the most important problem of modern Polish, even after 2012. Is it worth pretending that reality doesn't exist? Especially since, in addition to the introduction of the language of contempt, the language of violence to the public debate, we had other political procedures on the language, introducing monsters such as the words "marshalkini" or "minister." Yes, it was the 2012-2013 years, ladies and gentlemen. Rado, where have you been? Rado, where are you? Okay, I'm not criticizing. I wouldn't want this to be treated as a frontal criticism of the Polish Language Council. Here we are also dealing with very important work, because the language which is dedicated - also speaking with language error, so common at the moment - to us as consumers, is also very important and this analysis under the supervision of Prof. Halina Gółkowa is done very carefully. Only by examining the texts addressed to us as consumers, calling for the care of the Polish language of these texts, we cannot say that this is the main issue of the protection of Polish language in the years 2012 and 2013. I hope that in the future, apart from the size of the font, layout of the text, complex sentences, linguistic awkwardness resulting from the negligent translation in leaflets and manuals of household appliances, the Polish Language Council will also address what has happened in the last decade in Poland very dangerous. Thank you very much. The Law and Justice Club will, of course, vote in favour of the report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u101	Thank you very much. Ms Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if it's gonna be pure Polish, but the truth is, it's been a while since I've been stunned by the voice of my previous speaker. Either we work in another committee, unless you weren't, or I don't know, someone reads with understanding and someone with a little bit less. I will not serve Professor Kłosińska, who will probably respond to these statements and will remind the studies, including my habilitation - if I remember correctly, it was a habilitation about the language used in the public debate - she will remind seminars, conferences, studies and books, among others. issued also with the help of the National Centre for Culture under the direction of the Law and Justice of Director Dudek. That's not my role. So far, discussions on the reports of the Polish Language Council have been held in this House and in the Sejm's cultural committee without any attempt to politicise or stubbornly. We left the board of professors the opportunity to work in their own rhythm, their own course, according to their own rules, not thinking that this is the only time and the only place when we are talking about Polish, about degradation of this Polish language, because it is actually once every 2 years. As far as this study is concerned, this report and this subject, at the committee meeting, which, moreover, Mr World, the rapporteur of the committee, acknowledged, was absolutely agreed and we all appreciated the role and importance of this subject. It's a matter of hey, hate speech and what anyone said... Sometimes you can say something, and still Tomaszewski, so posted by Niesiołowski, came to the Platform and did not stay in Law and Justice. So, as it turns out, language is not always such a killer. [[Voice from the room: What does that have to do with anything?]] It has to do with what the Member says. I wouldn't have picked it up if I hadn't heard a speech from a representative of another club. [[The contempt industry.]] Speaking of which, I'd like to say that you're here, Professor. Kłosińska very detailed, but so pointing out, assessed and determined the content of this report. On the other hand, we as Members, I think, should be more concerned with the lessons that come out of this. The conclusions are two kinds. The first is the question of using such analyses and reports. It seems that the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection - because I am sticking to this subject, this report, it can always be some other office - in one word, different levels and nature of public authorities, i.e. regulatory authorities, where telecommunications is concerned, namely the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection or the Polish Bank Association, are those addressees whom we should ask to respond to the conclusions of this report and to look for remedies. To make things weirder, the matter of making deals and even leaflets, information printing is not just such a joyful work. There are laws in both Polish and European legislation. On the other hand, it seems that there is sometimes too much joy in this framework or an attempt to use this type of informational publication for a little bit of other purposes. And as far as this first category is concerned, I'm going to start, for example. From drugs, from pharmaceuticals, here's what we talked about at the committee meeting. There is some type of information that should be information for the patient, but very often this type of information for the patient is mixed with the type of information, because I know, for a pharmacist or even a doctor, which causes the patient, when he starts reading this leaflet, to put the medicine in the drawer because he is scared that he is not aware of the consequences. So there's a mix-up of functions here. In parapharmaceutical and cosmetics leaflets there is, it is no doubt, less information, and more advertising, but it is a slightly different type of communication with the consumer. There is no doubt that the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection should take a very good look at this here. With regard to telecommunications contracts, we have spent quite a bit of time discussing this report at the committee meeting. We said that not only are these agreements difficult to understand, but no one gives time to understand, because there is no longer... Some companies are able to contact only by means of a hotline, possibly sending the contract in some way hastily, by courier, asking for signature. A man signs because he's in a hurry, and he's nervous because he doesn't really know what it says. The situation with banking contracts has probably improved since the survey, because there have been regulations that protect consumers from, for example, fraud or credit fraud. And this is where the attention and size of the font were drawn, and the messages of those messages. In a word, I think that if we re-examine these studies, it would turn out that there is some progress in certain areas. Of course, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, which I represent, will not only accept this report but will accept it with satisfaction. Perhaps in the committee we will try to make some decisions that will be able to support the Polish Language Council, it was mentioned. For a few years we have been talking about the fact that the modest funds of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Polish Language Council working on it cause that our brilliant professors, scientists, can not develop their wings very much, but it seems that if there is such a development, purely utilitarian, such as if serving something, practical, which is not pure language theory, then perhaps funds to finance such research could also be found outside the Polish Academy of Sciences. Granted, this may be a little hitting on those who are judged, but it does not change the fact that it is certainly for the common good: and those service providers, and manufacturers, and customers. I think we could be tempted to find additional sources of funding, apart from, of course, making sure that the Polish Language Council itself is financially compensated. Really, in the Polish Language Council are the best of the best Polish linguists. I think it is worth taking care of such a body, especially since so far, and I can say this from the perspective of a very many term of office, very many governments, no one has ever accused the Polish Language Council of any bias or political underwork. This has been our success so far and I wish this Polish Language Council for the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u103	Thank you very much, Member. I would ask Mr Brynkus to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The protection of Polish language is also the protection of Polish culture, Polish identity. As important as this task is, there are also examples of non-professional communication of Polish politicians, who too often use not so much poor Polish language as its vulgarized version which turns into a pub language. However, according to many studies, the issue of the protection of the Polish language, often and rightly called a national language, is underestimated, and it is a pity, because according to these studies Polish language is a value that connects the nation, therefore it must be cultivated. When it is not spoken correctly, it is not only that what is nationally important, but also that other people treat such a person worse, because language is an indicator of his culture and intelligence, but also of his ability to communicate and receive messages. All the more so it is important to appreciate these scientific works, which present the consequences of the specific use of Polish language in social communication. The report on Polish language protection presented to the Sejm for 2012-2013 has developed a team of well-known and appreciated Polish linguists, as emphasized by outstanding Polish scholars dealing with this issue, including Professor Zofia Budrewicz from the Pedagogical University in Krakow, whose opinion I have allowed to present. Expertise concerns areas of particular importance in social communication and related to the quality of consumer services: medicines, parapharmaceuticals and cosmetics, manuals for household appliances, banking, leasing, insurance and education contracts, telecommunications, development and municipal. It is closed by conclusions and demands. The stated objectives of the expert report are unambiguous: a diagnostic description as well as linguistic indications aimed at ensuring understanding of the linguistic layer and ensuring that they are more consumer-friendly. Therefore, the expert opinion focuses on assessing the level of ensuring as easy and informed perception of the text as possible. The objectives of these expertise are fully realised. Each of the seven separate areas of diagnostic description uses linguistic diagnosis tools in the same way, and empirical material gives a representative view - testing tests are always determined. Each makes clear assessments relating both to the positive and negative characteristics of the three types of texts in paper version: information, instructions and contracts. Experts are in the nature of an assessment of the linguistic shape of the text, which takes into account both linguistic aspects and non-lingual measures, which determine the communicationability of the editorial shape. Both points of view are complementary and together determine the usable value of information, instructions and contracts. Expertise on each of these elements - linguistic and non-lingual - shall include an assessment of the specific level of communication in the ranges examined, indicating possible and necessary changes, e.g. in the case of medicines, the elimination of oversaturation of leaflets with specialist lexicism, scientific, elimination of overly general lexics related to the risks associated with the use of certain medicines. Similarly, the evaluation of the quality of useful texts, i.e. instructions, and contracts, were specifically and convincingly formulated. They are based on representative empirical materials, from which it is undisputed that various forms of communication require improvements and sometimes necessary language corrections: grammatical, syntax, or spelling. In view of the scientific quality of the expertise, it is necessary to use it even to create legal standards defining the linguistic correctness of public utility texts. This is all the more important because Poland becomes an area in which public useable verbal communication not only far removed from the criteria of Polishness by saturation with foreign terms, but also led to a significant depletion of the everyday Polish language. The areas of research included in the expert report are important from the point of view of practicality. Many people suffer, literally because of the quality of Polish language used in public circulation. They bear material and sometimes biological costs that threaten their existence. This is important, but we also need to expand the subject of research into those spheres that Mrs Lichock spoke about, because they talk about the consciousness and personality of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u105	And I would also like another member of the Kukiz club15, please speak to Mr Ireneus for profit. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm continuing with my club buddy. The report on the state of protection of Polish language for the years 2012-2013 does not answer questions concerning the protection of Polish language in public life, especially in media and advertising. However, a very detailed analysis of the content of medicines labels, parapharmaceutical products, cosmetics, household appliances and selected consumer contract standards has been carried out. The report notes that medicines are formally described in the labelling content in order only to meet the requirements imposed by the legislation on these products, which results in the use of a language difficult to understand for the average consumer. The leaflets of many parapharmaceutical products contain marketing information about the way it works and properties. In turn, in the case of cosmetics, the author of the report notes that descriptive content is often illegible due to the size of letters and contrast of subtitles. Attention was also paid to the introduction of terms that sound professionally but incomprehensible to most customers, which are intended to suggest a higher value of the product. Another marketing procedure for cosmetics is the introduction of English content names and descriptions. This suggests a foreign origin of the product and introduces a barrier of understanding for people who do not know the language. Manuals for the operation of electronic equipment are also characterized by numerous foreign language terms, the more technologically advanced the device is, the more foreign sounding function names occur. You do not use polish with respect to the menu item of devices and function names. When discussing the report, it is worth noting the need for legislative changes concerning the protection of the Polish language. Regulations relating to the protection of Polish language are needed, however, the way which is expressed in the Act of 7 October 1999 on Polish language, and the established practice does not correspond to the contemporary reality. There is also a lack of clearly defined objectives and instruments for achieving them. The degree of restrictiveness of legal protection should be clearly defined. The scale of threats should be well-diagnosed. Then you can choose the appropriate protection measures. It seems that the present law, due to the generality of the standards contained in it, and the introduction of many minor, minor issues to it, is not able to implement the objectives of protecting the Polish language. The Polish language law duplicates regulations concerning control institutions that have already been regulated in other laws, e.g. President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, Commercial Inspection, District Inspection, City Consumer Ombudsman as well as State Labour Inspection. The actual protection of the Polish language should be implemented by the Minister of Culture, the Constitutional Minister. It should carry out continuous monitoring, diagnose the situation, conduct analyses and formulate a strategy for the protection of the Polish language appropriate to the current situation. Overly casuistic provisions relating to, among others, should disappear from the law. to the fees for the Polish language exam for foreigners. Such regulations may be included in lower-rank legal acts. The report on the state of protection of the Polish language for the years 2012-2013 is very detailed and substantive. It is a pity, however, that his commission and study covered such a narrow scope, which in fact causes that the report presents and evaluates only a fragment of the reality concerning the state of Polish language. The report does not refer, as I mentioned, to the protection of Polish language in public life, especially to the statements of politicians, as was mentioned today, which greatly affect the state of the language commonly used by Poles in everyday life. It remains to be hoped that the report for the next periods will assess the state of the language more fully and make appropriate proposals for its protection. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 will adopt a report on the state of protection of the Polish language for the years 2012 and 2013. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u107	Thank you very much, sir. And I will ask Mr Grzegorz Furga to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Madam Secretary! This is a very important debate. It's just a pity that we're so few in this room, we're finally talking about our language. The report on the protection of Polish language will not be a laurel about the fact that it is a beautiful language, poetic and even one of the most difficult languages in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is generally worrying. Not so long ago, because on February 21st, we celebrated International Mother's Day. The mother tongue is more than just a way of verbal communication. Poles fought for the possibility of using Polish language in schools and public places during the partitions and during the war occupation. It is from denying the mother tongue from public space that attempts to blur our national identity have been repeatedly started. It's a language. It unites us, like the flag, the emblem and the national anthem. Polish is a symbol. The messages shaping the condition of the Polish language come from various sources, especially from media transmissions. In journalistic language it is crawling with news, events and shows. We intertwine Polish language with phrases of foreign origin, without bothering to find their Polish counterparts. Unfortunately, we are witnesses, and at the same time victims of linguistic sloppyness, widely adored and calculated. We didn't even notice when words commonly considered vulgar were smuggled into our language. Expressing their admiration, presenters and famous journalists, people who are considered authorities no longer say that something is perfect or wonderful. It has become fashionable to use the word that begins with a word that I would not dare quote because of respect for the national symbols present here and because of the majesty of the High Sejm. This phrase, which is not suitable for any respectable Pole, has been disseminated. The same is true of the vulgar synonym for the seat we have used to discipline their children. Young people are familiar with the presence of vulgarism, switching television channels and watching movies. We think that we use correct Polish, while completely unconsciously we introduce phrases, unnoticedly taking place in our dictionary. Besides, the Internet, its content, is beyond any control. Likes, even e-mails and tweets are just the tip of the iceberg. Interesting but disturbing phenomenon is the fact that the language of the Internet is very dynamic, often excluding Polish characters in spelling and using shortcuts. The Polish Language Council in 2010 issued a report on the status of Polish language protection in 2008-2009. There was an analysis in it, among others. language in business, in higher, general and professional education. According to linguists, Polish language is not treated as it is due to its role in social life. He's being treated instrumentally. It serves only as a tool for transmitting content. Companies and corporations generate permanent changes that will be preserved in the Polish dictionary without interference by the competent authorities. This is the case for staff positions - junior account, executive or PR manager. However, loans are only one of the dangers of Polish language. We ignore the forms of politeness, increasingly and more often, trying to reduce the distance in social relations at all costs, even where it is absolutely unnecessary. We address the gathered people directly, aside from phrases like you, you, the state. We have also stopped being polite in our statements. It's not just that we're being deprived of the principles of good upbringing. Apart from polite expressions in our statements, we also exclude respect for our caller. The report also shows that for a significant part of the business environment, the correctness of Polish language has no significant value. However, the representatives of business groups have a significant impact on the young generation aspiring professionally, giving him a clear signal: the correctness of your Polish language is not superior. The study of correct Polish language lies, among others. on the side of the schools. However, it turns out that school textbooks are written in a very synthetic, little understood language, and they also contain a number of errors that are transmitted and disseminated outside the school. It is clear that the young generation's indifference to the correctness of their mother tongue is observed in order to improve the competence and level of knowledge of English. The analysis of the state of protection of Polish language requires us to consider what needs to be done to ensure the presence of Polish language in its purest form, which is inadequately regulated by the Polish language protection law of 1999. We feel relieved of responsibility, while we must make a great deal of effort to aestheticise public space. The mother tongue is the good of national culture, which we should take care of with the greatest piety, especially us, Members and politicians, who are often watched with double attention. Parliament and the language we speak should be particularly flawless in this respect. We should keep this in mind, especially during election campaigns, where the language of aggression and hatred sometimes appears, which, like vulgarism, is unacceptable and cannot be allowed to use such a language. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u109	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski will also perform on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u110	But I'm gonna use that phrase. Mrs. Marshalkini! Professor! High Izbo! I think language has a dynamic nature, it's developing, it's unpredictable. It is as unpredictable as the society that creates this language is unpredictable. So I wouldn't be opposed to a language that sometimes guides us, sometimes subjugates us. And there are such wonderful moments when we control the language. These moments are, of course, quite rare, especially in the place where we are debating your report today. I think that Polish language is a democratic language and this language will develop as we will be ready to meet its challenges, but above all social challenges or challenges that our cultural awareness or our culture imposes on us. I don't want to talk about national culture here. Art. 3 Act on Polish Language, among others. obliges us to ensure the correct use of language and to create conditions for its proper development as a tool for human communication and a fundamental element of national identity. According to the law, the protection of Polish language is based on countering vulgarisation, caring for regionalism, spreading knowledge about it and its role in culture. It is worth recalling the responsibility for language and its role in shaping reality especially today, when unintelligibly used in political struggles, it is a matter of importance. A language full of violence, dehumanizing metaphors and aggressive messages divides. Instead of creating a space for dialogue, it destroys it, communicates only unilaterally, declares. Words are not unpunished. They can be punished and punished - examples can be multiplied. Intentional statements of politicians, leaders of extreme groups in the first place by language create a reality in which every breach, difference is or may be a threat. They use concepts, dangerous phenomena, giving well-known names such as the welfare of the nation, democracy, the rule of law. The boundaries of my language are defined by the boundaries of my world - so you can paraphrase the famous phrase of the outstanding philosopher of Ludwig Wittgenstein. The boundaries of our language are defined by the boundaries of the social agreement. Language is an instrument, a means for the purpose of an agreement in a democratic state. Let us use it in harmony, and let us use it with this destiny. At the end of my speech, I would like to tell you that the Polish Theatre in Wrocław, which I am the director of, as you know very well, presented Adam Mickiewicz's Departments in Beijing. We played a show for $3,000. The Chinese, they were three performances. Of course, we played in Polish, while our message was displayed in Chinese, for Chinese audience. This is our principle, this is the principle of Polish culture, which in this way also promotes Polish language. The consequence of our stay in Beijing and the presentation of Adam Mickiewicz's grandfathers was the first edition in the history of Adam Mickiewicz in Chinese. This is our achievements, also important at language level, also important at the level of culture and at the level of what is the presence of Polish culture abroad. I would like to say to you that, in this context, it seems completely incomprehensible to me to withdraw the honorary patronage of President Andrzej Duda, who, unlike Mr Komorowski, considered that the presentation of "Dziadów" entirely in the Polish Theatre in Wrocław should not be subject to such a patronage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this is a reflection for me, which will remain in our minds, especially in Wrocław, in the minds of our Wrocław audience, but also in the Polish audience. That sound is very dangerous. I think the language...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u111	And I, too, would like to see you go to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u112	I'm finishing up. And this is the moment when we refer to the wonderful Polish language used by Adam Mickiewicz to create this fantastic form of open, fragmentary narrative, which in fact is a form of open democracy in which we live in Poland. In other words, this beautiful polish of Mickiewicz caused us to live and live in a democratic country today, because Mickiewicz wanted to live in his Dziady. And at the end, three sentences. I'm very sorry for the extension, but I'd like to read Marcin Świetlicki's poem. It's rare to get poetry out of this bleacher. Evil languages - that's the title of this line. Or maybe they talk about us at night in their unknown in Polish, they talk about us with disgust, they talk and they croak? Or maybe when we use their tongue brazenly every day, Is that why they hate us so much? How about we just start talking with gestures? Maybe his tongue is bleeding? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u113	Thank you very much. As regards the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, Ms Urszula Pasławska put her position on behalf of the club in writing, in the last sentence indicating that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is positive about this report. As far as the list of Members is concerned, three persons have entered the list. Would any of you like to sign up for this list? I don't see any calls, so I'm closing the list. I ask Mr Paweł Skutecki, the Kukiz club15, to ask for the first question. You're welcome. Oh, yes, it's only a matter of time before you do. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Professor! This document is sensational, but until a certain point. I'm talking about the last part: Conclusions and demands. As far as the proposals are concerned, of course They're there, but I didn't find any postulates. Do you, as a council, have any requests, especially regarding the language of manipulation and persuasion in the context of medicines and medicinal products? Because it's not about language correctness anymore, it's about communication. You are paying attention to this in this document, but I would like to hear if you have any specific requests on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u115	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, also by the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! I have a few questions. Will there be a continuation of these studies, which will take into account not only the text version but also the oral version, where there is a lot of manipulation in terms of advertising, manipulation towards consumers? What is the form of cooperation with institutions such as: State Labour Inspection or Chamber of Commerce? Because they have some tools to care for the Polish language, but they don't really know that they have these tools, and they don't use them. What are the real possibilities of influencing tenderers in order to oblige them to take care of proper Polish? And by going away from those issues that the report referred to: Are there studies on the protection of language in public space, where there is widespread ignorance of this language, even among journalists, where there is an incredible brutalisation of this language, including here in this House, unfortunately, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and there are many cases of the use of Polish language to divide, to provoke fear and aggression? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u117	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Gosiewiski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u118	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Shouldn't some too difficult words and calls in patient leaflets be eliminated? Shouldn't those terms be replaced by a sufficiently precise, appropriate explanation? And second question: Is the government planning to make plans to protect the Polish language from the increasing amount of foreign language words in the Polish language? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u119	Thank you very much. In this way, we have exhausted the list of MEPs. I would like to speak with the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Piotr Gliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Madam Secretary! High Izbo! I'll be brief. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the report, for the votes in the debate, for your involvement in this issue, for the work and declarations of the cultural committee. I accept, in principle, all the suggestions that have been made here, also those which have not been formulated, but I think we know more or less what this is about, and I understand that your secretary will still be answering. I accept it as a task to do, because it is the government and the parliament that need to improve the situation that we have right now. And I am not only referring to the protection of the Polish language, because of course this is a very important, fundamental task, the state spoke about it, it comes from the duties of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. We need identity functions, community-building language to emphasize, implement, facilitate their implementation. But I'm performing here. also as Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, who is responsible not only for language issues but also for other issues that have been raised in your speeches. They don't come directly, but they're insanely important and related. I mean of course this problem, that Polish language is being used more and more widely, in recent years already in a way, I would say, total, to various types of manipulation practices in many areas of life. We, as a country, cannot and have not been able to counter it so far. As a result, Polish citizens are vulnerable to actions of much stronger actors from different areas, especially business operators, but also the administration here is not without blame. I can only declare right now that we will try to speed things up in order to sort things out. We will try to defend Polish citizens against these manipulations in which language plays a huge role. Madam Secretary has also made this clear, but we all feel it and you have also spoken on this issue. In other words, the Polish state cannot and will not be powerless to do so. But it's gonna take time. We of these regulations, because it will largely be legislative regulations unfortunately... Unfortunately, I am saying because, as we know, these are delicate issues and they are very difficult to regulate. But we will have to undertake this task because we cannot be powerless, because it results in a really tragic situation for citizens who, precisely, are not even able to read those messages that are addressed to them by administration or business. Unfortunately, there is such a special period, but it must be said that we also do not see much good will in directing these messages to citizens - to surround them with language, colonize them, however we may do so. Named, awkward, but in any case put in a very uncomfortable situation towards the interests of much stronger actors. The Polish state will not leave Polish citizens vulnerable to this situation, although it will take us some time to organize this issue. I therefore also have a call for all parliamentary clubs to work together in this direction here in Parliament. We, as a government, are willing to cooperate. In the end, I will only refer very gently to Mr Mieszkowski's fights. Mr Lent, there is a period of Lent, and I would recommend that you have such an internal reflection or an examination of your conscience. Perhaps then you would understand why the President wasn't too ready to patronize your actions. Speaking in biblical language, who's sowing... As I say, I want to save my words. Don't be surprised that the consequences of certain actions can be just like this. You also repeatedly, I am able to prove it at any time, use the language in a manner unworthy of the Polish Member, because you use it, for example. I don't want you to say anything that's not true. I'd suggest we stop doing that kind of thing. That's it. I don't want to go into details. If you're offended that I said that, I apologize in advance, but the facts are obvious. Language is often used in political combat in an improper way, and I will end there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u121	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Please take the floor... [[Excuse me, I'd like to...]] Correct? There you go. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u122	Mrs. Marshalkini! Prime Minister! Do not throw empty words in this High House, please speak specifically. This is not a joke, it cannot be suggested to the public that I am an unworthy Member of the Republic. [[Applause]] Prove to me that you have some serious arguments to use such words in the Polish Parliament. This is unworthy, Prime Minister, Prime Minister of Poland, Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u123	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Madam Secretary! High Izbo! I have given you a chance not to raise these questions, but since you have said so, I will only say very gently that your repeated public statements about my opinions on your theater and performance - which you have announced as director of the theatre, and also as director, that you will present pornographic content - your statements on my opinions, repeated repeatedly in the media, together with the statements of the president of Mr Petr's club, were lies. And that's all I'm gonna say about it, and I don't want to... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u125	I hope that we will move towards the report. Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor... [[Excuse me.]] No, sir, sit down. [[But I have the right to answer that. That's the law of the envoy.]] I ask the Secretary of the Polish Language Council at the Bureau of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Ms Katarzyna Kłosińska, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all the votes, for all the comments and, above all, for expressing your interest in this report. There's been a few threads. I will try to answer just as thematically and not directly as the questions were asked. The first thing is a matter of heyte. I understood from Mrs Lichocka's statement that you would imagine that we could create a study, such a report on the use of hat or language aggression, in general. I will also say that the hat is on all sides of the political stage, and then the language of all political actors should be examined. Of course, such research is carried out in scientific centres, I myself, among others. This is what I have been doing, although maybe not exactly aggressively in the language of politics, but in the language of politics at all, but we try each time to prepare our reports so that something can come from them for legislation. And here, if we were to develop, prepare a study on language aggression, for example. politicians or Members, it would be difficult to find such a solution so that it could continue in legislation. On the other hand, I would like to stress very clearly that the Polish Language Council also has this problem, i.e. The problem of language aggression, he's taking care of. Recently, there was a Word Ethics Team on the board, which has about 50 people, and the other 50 are a group of collaborators. Of course, they are not only members of the council, because the council has about 40 people. That's what this team's going to do. However, maybe I shouldn't say this, but we're very financially limited. The Council's budget is so modest that, in principle, when it comes to activities, e.g. Word Ethics Team or other teams, it happens that teams don't get any zloty for the whole year of their business, literally or gold, even though they are trying to get different funding or funding for different activities. And this may be a fundamental obstacle, because because the team has gathered, discussed, debated and even posted something on a website that is conducted completely pro bono, because there's no money for the website either, nothing shows whether or not anything is practical. Here on all the actions that should be taken, not just on the ethics of the word, I would describe it in general, the ethics of the word, and not only the aggression, so as not to emphasize this negative side, unfortunately these financial issues are very much projecting. The Polish Language Council is 39 or 40 people, I no longer remember at the moment, which of course are not employed. None of us are working on the council, we're just a social body. The Council's Ethat It's a secretarial part-time with the lowest average national salary or... Anyway, close to the lowest one. The budget really is very modest. We would like to do a lot of different actions, because research is carried out in different centres and many members of the board are involved in various studies, but it is impossible if there is no resources for this. I will also say that for several years, for 4 years the Council has been working with very good results from the National Centre for Culture, with which we have been campaigning for 4 years - add to your favorites. There is also a grant programme within this framework. I must tell you that for the first time in Poland's history it happened that it was created by the Minister of Culture, 4 years ago, in 2012, a grant programme aimed at entities that intend to promote Polish language, raise language awareness, etc. In addition, we operate with the National Centre for Culture in various other areas, among others. we also launched an action that was citizen-friendly 4 years ago. I just hope that a little bit in the wrong action, but this idea is a report. So where we can, we're looking for partners with whom we can do something, we're taking action, and that's the partner of the National Cultural Centre. I hope that the new management will be as willing to cooperate with us as the previous one. But you can't do everything here. And this is where I answer all the other questions right away. Why are we doing this? I mean, why are we only doing what we're doing? Because each such report must be limited somehow for financial reasons. We do not want to force or urge someone to carry out such studies, which are, as you have noticed, actually very reliable studies, completely free of charge. On the other hand, when it comes to the choice of subjects, these reports are supposed to be the starting point - in our view this should be the starting point for legislative changes in this respect, which is described here. Unfortunately, I have to say with regret that, although this is another report, because they have been prepared by the Council since 2000 and I do not know whether the previous reports, which have always been discussed at the meetings of the Committee on Culture and Media, had... from what I understand, they did not have, technically or colloquially, later translated into legislation, and the damage. And it seems to me that the report we have now made very clear are the demands and conclusions to make some changes or to make some changes to legislation, such as to make the consumer an actor and not the subject of the action of the person, entity or institution with whom the contract is concluded. As far as this topic is concerned, that language is meant to serve as an agreement, we agree with it as much as possible. It is also the Word Ethics Group that will deal with it or does it, but it is also difficult to imagine that it is included in a report that would later have some legislative effect. For a long time, linguists have been dealing with the extent to which language is used by agreement, and for how much exclusion - this is a very important issue of exclusion. But I don't know, I'm not a lawyer, so maybe that's what my ignorance is about, how we can work through legislation here. If you have any idea if you could create a project that could make your language more compatible than it does, it would be excellent, but it's just hard to imagine. There is also this issue of manipulation and persuasion, and where there is a line between information and persuasion, and then persuasion and manipulation. It's also, I mean, it seems to me that here every time the action should go the other way, i.e. raising the language awareness of Poles and raising reading awareness, so that the person knows, can distinguish between the situation in which he is urged honestly, from the situation in which he is urged unfairly, and even further from the situation in which he is only informed. And that's probably the role of schools. The Polish Language Council has also long talked about this, that here more emphasis should be placed on the education of such language education in schools. We even reported, and this, it seems, from this tribune three years ago I made such a request, of course, on behalf of the council, which has also been formulated many times before, so that in education, in primary and secondary schools, etc. to separate the subject matter of science of language or of language at all from the subject matter of culture and literature, because it only guarantees, i.e. the emphasis on language learning, as understood as reading with understanding of useful texts, will only make subsequent generations, i.e. more people will know how to behave in relation to a text. I don't think that's gonna work through legislation. Is this where one of the messengers asked about it, that we have real opportunities to influence the tenderers? We do not have, because the Polish Language Council under the law is an advisory and advisory institution in the use of the Polish language and has no such competence. These competences have remained, probably have other entities. The Polish Language Council, as I said, according to the Act is an advisory and advisory institution. We can appeal, opinion. And now what somebody, some institution will do about it, it's not up to us anymore. We can't continue to enforce. Of course, we work with the UOKiK, with other institutions that work here. At the end he asked whether difficult words could be eliminated from these leaflets. Of course, all of this depends on the goodwill of the person who makes these flyers. On the other hand, we are imagining and once again I am saying that the ideal situation would be that, after today's meeting, the High House is beginning to wonder what to do to introduce certain arrangements, standards on transparency and accessibility of language into legislation. As I have said many times in my previous speech, such research is being carried out and there is actually ready material that could be used here. Yeah, I guess that's it. I hope I didn't miss anything. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much for having adopted our report. The Polish Language Council is available for all issues related to the protection of the Polish language, raising the language awareness of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u127	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for the report. I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee of Jack the World to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Madam Secretary! Prime Minister! I have nothing but to thank you for a very interesting discussion, and today in the Chamber, and during the committee meeting. I think that the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture, is the best proof that we all take the Polish future seriously here, that, in line with the demands of the professor and with the promises of the Prime Minister, we will strive more intensively in the near future to ensure that Polish language develops well, dignifiedly, because, as old wisdom says: language is the father of thought. So what language will be, that will be our consciousness. And I hope that we will also be able to vary beautifully in the future thanks to our language. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u129	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u130	PSL's position on the Polish language protection report for 2012-2013. Reports are made every two years. This covers the years 2012 and 2013. The reports do not fully cover the Polish language. Each time the reports focus on selected parts of our language. The subject of the analysis was: - information accompanying medicines, - information attached to parapharmaceuticals and cosmetics - these are leaflets without general rules, especially legal rules, - instructions for handling household appliances, - texts of a legal nature, because they are civil law contracts, namely banking, leasing, insurance, education contracts, - another part: telecommunications contracts, electronic equipment contracts, - development contracts and municipal service contracts - for some time now it is no longer a consumer document, but not a notarial document, but it has been analysed. The scope of the studies concerned: - typography and infographics (font size), - attention has also been paid to the consistency of the paragraphs; the division currently applies is very different and should have a normal external structure, - the frequently reported problem with Polish letters in these texts has not been identified; it appears in emails and text messages, but not in consumer texts, - loans, - syntaxes of the sentence; very often sentences consisting of 30 and 40 words are used - this makes it difficult to understand and remember the information provided. The Parliamentary Club of PSL welcomes this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u131	The Committee on Culture and Media requests the adoption of a report presented by the Polish Language Council on the state of protection of the Polish language for the years 2012-2013, contained in print No 89. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Public Blood Service and some other laws (Print No.294). I ask the Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwił, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Prime Minister! I'm sorry. I have the honour to present to you a draft law amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws together with draft implementing acts prepared to assess the situation as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important elements of the health protection system for Poles is, of course, a well-organized and supervised system of blood donation and blood treatment based on honorary, unpaid donation of blood and its components. In recent years, the European Commission has drawn attention to the problem of non-translation of several EU directives into the Polish legal order and has asked Poland to clarify this issue and take appropriate action. This is what I would like to draw attention to, the implementation of four directives into Polish law. The first is Directive 2002/98 of 2002 and therefore the delay is really robust, setting quality and safety standards for the collection, testing of preparations, storage, dispensing of human blood and its components. Then another directive, whose titles I will no longer read. These are the Directives of 2004, 2005 and two directives. Indeed, we are in a poor position, especially as the case has now been brought before the Court of Justice. After many years of failed attempts to take up the subject, a draft law on the amendment of the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws was developed. First of all, it is its main task, in a complete and complete way, to implement these directives in the Polish legal system in terms of quality standards and safe collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of blood and its components. In view of the decision of the European Commission, which I have said, it has become extremely important to bring this legislative process to the Court as soon as possible. At the same time, I want to ensure that the safety of donors, such as blood recipients and their components, is also at the heart of concern at the moment, and that high standards for the whole collection, storage, preparation, transport and distribution of blood and its components are applied. However, following the adoption of the bill submitted, these standards will be defined at the level of the law generally in force and will thus be significantly strengthened. To date, there is a lack of legislation, as well as regulations of the Minister of Health, full regulation of issues concerning mainly the obligation to develop, implement and maintain a quality system in blood donation and blood treatment centres, the rules for the import of blood and its components from outside Poland into our country, the system to ensure the safety of blood and its components, and to ensure effective monitoring of the blood path and its components from the donor to the recipient. The quality assurance system described in the project ensures that all quality-related tasks are properly carried out, taking into account the review and acceptance of any quality documents. It is a quality management tool comprising organisational structures, processes and documentation. According to these directives, in order to ensure maximum safety for both the recipient and the blood donor, the proposed law introduces rules imposing on blood service units an obligation to ensure full traceability of the blood path and its components from the blood donor to the recipient, so-called. a wake-up system. This system is an essential element of quality assurance. Public blood service units will be required to put in place a system to identify each unit and blood component and its final destination. The proposed law lays down rules on imports of blood and its components from outside the European Union and the European Economic Area, which were not previously regulated in Polish legislation. Imports of blood and its components will only be permitted if it is possible to ensure the safety of the imported blood and its components at a level not lower than that in force in Poland and it will be possible to monitor the imported blood and its components from the blood donor to the recipient. It has also become necessary to introduce new regulations concerning the blood donor register maintained by the blood service units. According to the project, these units will run an electronic system called e-blood containing information about blood donors, including rare blood donors, and information about undesirables, including severe events and reactions. The e-blood system created under this bill is designed primarily to provide safe blood or its components for the purposes of healing, blood search and blood donors for patients with rare blood groups and to monitor the quality and path of blood in blood donation and blood treatment. In addition, the e-blood system will be helpful in assessing optimal blood consumption. The system will also be used for reporting. The Member States of the European Union are required to submit, in accordance with Union legislation, an annual report on serious adverse events and reactions related to the collection, testing, preparation, storage and transfusion of blood and its components. In addition to the implementation of the Directive, bearing in mind that the Public Blood Service Act has not been revised in substance for a long time, the proposal also introduces the most necessary and urgent changes in the regulation of the blood donation and blood treatment system. This concerns, firstly, the need to adapt to the constitutional standards of the delegation for the Minister of Health to the issuing of regulations on the rules relating to badges and honorary titles of blood donors, such as the Deserving Honorary Blood Donor and the Honorary Blood Donor - Deserved for the Health of the Nation. At the same time, in view of the need to harmonise the honorary legitimacy of blood donors, the proposed act sets out the scope of the data that should include the honorary legitimacy of the blood donor. He goes here, among other things. to meet the expectations of the Chief Data Protection Officer. At the same time, with regard to the implementation of Union law, the proposed regulation also includes changes concerning the eligibility of blood donors and candidates for blood donors. In addition to the doctor, a nurse with a master's degree in nursing and appropriate clinical specialisation may also be eligible. In addition, in view of the possibility of improving the donation of blood by disabled persons, an appropriate provision has been added to allow donors with limited communication opportunities due to disability. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As I mentioned at the outset, blood donation and blood treatment are an important part of the health system in Poland. It is well known that blood cannot yet be produced by any technological process, and its only source is another person who must show good will, sacrifice, self - sacrifice and willingness to help those in need. Let me therefore point out that, for this reason, the blood donation and blood treatment systems are not only blood donation centres, hospitals, blood banks, laboratories where immunohaematological tests are carried out, but above all, a huge group of honorary blood donors. The proposals for legal changes proposed by the Minister for Health and the Government in the proposed bill are important both from the point of view of the whole system and of this great group of honorary blood donors. Together with the project, we provide you with information that the project is compatible with European Union law, that it does not require notification, an impact assessment of regulation and, in accordance with the rules, ten draft regulations, nine of which will be issued by the Minister of Health and one by the Minister of National Defence. With all this in mind, I ask the High House to adopt a draft law on amending the Law on Public Blood Service and certain laws, and once again I ask for the process to be carried out as soon as possible because the situation is already tight in the European Union and we should definitely proceed on this issue, of course prudently, but also without undue delay. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the presented government bill amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws. As has already been said, on 10 December 2015, the European Commission informed that it had decided to refer a complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union for breach of the Treaty obligations on Poland's failure to fully transpose the blood donation and blood treatment directives. In view of the nature of the issues which absolutely need to be regulated under Polish law, a draft law on amending the Law on Public Blood Service and certain other laws has been drawn up. This draft, together with the implementing acts issued on its basis, fully and fully implements the European Union Directive in the Polish legal system in terms of quality standards and safe collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of blood and its components and its final purpose, i.e. a complete trace of the blood path and its components from the blood donor to the recipient and vice versa. It regulates the rules for the carriage of blood and its components from outside the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area, which were not previously regulated in Polish legislation. The transport of blood and its components will only be permitted if it is possible to ensure the quality and safety of the blood transported at a level not lower than that of the public blood service units in the territory of the Republic of Poland. It will also be possible to monitor the blood transported and its components on the way from the donor to the recipient of the blood and vice versa. The draft law also introduces legal bases that will enable the creation of an e-blood electronic system. This system will contain information about blood donors, including rare blood types donors, and information about adverse events and reactions, including serious events. This system will also be used for reporting. The Minister drew attention to this. Member States are required to submit, in accordance with Union legislation, an annual report on serious adverse events and reactions related to the collection, testing, preparation, storage and transfusion of blood and its components. Ladies and gentlemen! Other necessary changes in the regulation of the blood donation and blood treatment system included in the proposed project concern, inter alia. standardize the scope of the data that should include the honorary card of the blood donor. An appropriate provision has also been added to allow donors with limited communication opportunities due to disability to agree with their physician on how to exchange the necessary information as well as how to perform the procedure in accordance with the applicable procedures. In response to numerous demands of the community of honorary blood donors, the principles of applying for the title and badges of the Deserving Honorary Blood Giver have been changed. Information about the right to grant this badge and the card will be issued by the Polish Red Cross on the basis of data provided by the organizational unit of the public blood service in which the donor obtained an adequate volume of blood or its components. On the other hand, the Polish Red Cross will be obliged to inform the public blood service unit, which provided the donor's data, about the issue of the badge. At the same time, the proposed law introduces a change in the scope of entities entitled to request the Minister of Health to give honorary blood donors who have given at least 20 litres of blood or corresponding to that volume of its ingredients, awards and decorations as well as honorary badges of the Donor of Blood Deserving for the Health of the Nation. Under the law, the head of the organizational unit of the public blood service in which the donor gave blood and the bodies of the nationwide honorary blood donors associations will be entitled to donate blood. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a long-awaited project. The provisions of the revised law will ensure the implementation of the provisions of EU directives in Polish law, which guarantee safety primarily for recipients and donors of blood, as well as personnel involved in the collection and preparation of blood or its components, affect the maintenance of appropriate standards throughout the blood donation and blood treatment process, since the collection of blood from the donor, [[♪ The bell ♪]] by its examination, preparation, storage, transport, release, after transfusion at the end of the recipient. This project is catching up on the huge backlogs made by our predecessors. I ask all Members that we do not go further into this non-regulation. Please accept the proposed proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u135	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform will support a government bill amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws, print No 294. The implementation of the provisions of the law is due to the need to implement the provisions of the European Union in the national order. The requirements of the Directives are intended to guarantee the safety of all recipients and blood donors as well as of all persons involved in the collection, testing, storage, blood donation, by maintaining a quality system in the organizational units. Taking into account the directives, the necessary regulations are made, including the implementation of a uniform quality system, which minimises the risk of errors and adverse reactions, regulates the collection of blood components from a minor, and regulates the e-blood electronics system. The proposed law also sets out the rules for the transport of blood and its components, as well as introduces new definitions of the type of Transfusion Immunology Workshop or Preparatics, which will replace the existing definitions. But we would also like to point out that some significant records have disappeared. These records include those relevant from the point of view of blood treatment. No blood transfusion rights have been introduced for medical rescuers, which is a big problem, especially in the SORs. This professional group has been very determined to apply for such powers. I think it's a matter of their profession as well. They gave up training for blood transfusion doctors. The hospital has no obligation to order blood in the nearest so-called. the right blood donation centre, which is very important in keeping the blood safe. There is no obligation to report the activity of the blood immunology lab, which is not in the hospital structure. There are no sanctions for failure to comply with the recommendations of a blood bank or immunoassay. All rights and obligations of the Regulation were to be entered into the Act, but they were deleted. It was also important to record from the point of view of blood donation. The accreditation referred to here remains indefinitely and is given by the founding body, the Ministry of Health, and was to be timely and given by the Institute as an independent entity. The e-blood system does not specify who will be responsible for its conduct. Important, however, from the point of view of donors - the three-step badge for individual well-deserved donors awarded by the Ministry of Health has been removed. All that's left is a badge that says 20 liters of devoted blood. From the point of view of the Institute, however, it was not possible for the Institute to provide training for doctors, nurses, diagnostics to confer the powers required by the Act. It is also unknown what role the institute will play in the e-blood system. At present, there is a provision which reads: "Powering the e-blood system with data resulting from the tasks set out in the Act and previously keeping the register." The Minister of Health is assigned to send a report to the European Commission, but it is also not written who is to prepare these reports. It is also not known whether the Institute will be part of the National Council for Blood and Blood Care. In conclusion, in spite of the few comments that have been made here, the proposed solution largely cleans up the public blood service process and should be implemented into legal order as soon as possible. The Civic Platform will therefore support this project as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u137	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Today we read for the first time the bill on amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws. By entering the websites of regional blood donation and blood treatment centres in various cities, I have one main question: Where is the service here? I'm not going to quote the generally available definitions of public service. All I'm going to say is that the prices of various services on RCKiK's websites shock richness and conflict with the concept of public service. The question arises: Can workers, during working hours, paid from the state budget in public blood services carry out a very large commercial activity? In this case, is commercial activity good for the patient, because it is, or at least should be, the beneficiary of the activities of the public blood service? I saw the parents of children who, instead of sitting by the sick bed, were looking for blood for him, and this is the main goal and should be the only objective of regional blood donation and blood treatment centers. They do not carry out this task properly. You can't come to another conclusion by reading dramatic appeals. Tadeusz X. of R. has lymphocytic leukemia. He's got to have blood transfusions every month. The situation is dramatic. There are only three donors in Podkarpacie with BRh- group. The family must find new ones, the life of Mr. X depends on it. Today, only one unit of this rare blood group remains in the reserve at the center of blood donation. For another transfusion, you'll need two or three units. I wonder if it's the sick family that's supposed to serve as a public blood service, because the RCKiK are busy making money. It is important to be clear: this law will not improve the situation if the RCKiK's commercial activities are clearly not banned. If the patient's family has to coordinate blood donation from donors, it is not surprising that the result of the Supreme Audit Chamber's control: However, Poland's self-sufficiency in the supply of blood and its components has been achieved in 20122013, then the need of medicinal entities related to blood treatment has not been fully secured. At the same time, there have been cases of incomplete use of blood components in both centres and medicinal entities within their time of validity, which forced their disposal. Next sentence: Self-sufficiency in blood products has not been achieved, risking insecurity and security of supply. During the first reading of the Act, I recommend to all my fellow Members the reading of the results of the NIK audit and a look at the draft law just through the prism of these results. It's been 21 years since the news of the Lab of Plasma Fraction and for 21 years the next governments have been unable to solve this problem. This bill in this version will not help either. Another sentence on the security of the e-blood system. It cannot be accepted that a donor described such a large range of sensitive personal data is not really protected, that his data is stored in an external unit - the Centre for Health Protection Information Systems. Only medically educated persons should have access to such sensitive data, so data should be stored e.g. at the Institute of Hematology. The question should also be asked: Isn't the commercial activity of the RCKiK blocking the implementation of directives aimed at ensuring the safety of blood in our country? As the Minister said, the European Commission has called on Poland to properly implement in its law certain EU rules on the quality and safety of human blood. Once again, the question must be asked: Isn't the commercial activity of the RCKiK also at the heart of the non-implementation of the directives and didn't it cause the Polish blood service to have no time to implement directives that apply in Europe because it was busy making money? The project in its current shape does not guarantee this. The Kukiz Club15 requests that the bill be submitted to the committee for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u139	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u140	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the Act amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws from print No 294. I think that everyone here is aware of the fact that blood is a gift of life, a gift flowing from the need of the heart, a gift saving the health and life of Poles. Therefore, in the first place, in the context of this amendment, I wanted to express my gratitude and appreciation to all blood donors for their sacrifice. I also wanted to thank all those who are involved in the procedures leading to the transfer of blood or the recipient's preparations for their daily work, because I know how important it is for these people to work for the success of procedures that save the health or life of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, the highest quality procedures should be used to ensure the safety of donors, recipients and all persons involved in the collection, testing, preparation, storage and distribution of blood and its components. The main purpose of this law, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, is also to adapt Polish legislation to the requirements of four European directives, including: laying down quality and safety standards for the collection, testing, preparation, storage and distribution of human blood and its components; as regards certain technical requirements for blood and blood components; as regards requirements for blood tracking and notification of serious adverse reactions and events, as well as Community standards and specifications relating to the quality system in force in blood establishments. When the provisions of the Directives are examined, it is clear that the changes resulting from their transposition will have a significant impact on the legal situation and the improvement of safety in procedures carried out in the public blood service. I want to briefly mention interesting solutions here. Firstly, the project introduces the principle of each body having a public blood service wishing to obtain accreditation of a quality management system and a quality assurance system. It is the certainty of safe procedures for blood processing, although it should be mentioned that these procedures concerning quality in RCKiK e.g. have been used for many years. Secondly, it introduces new, much wider definitions than the existing ones. This is so important that they touch matters, I would say, basic throughout the blood circulation and its preparations. Another noteworthy change is the detailed definition of the tasks of the person responsible for complying with the requirements of good blood collection practice and its components, preparation, storage, release and transport. This will certainly improve the quality of supervision of safety procedures. It is also worth noting that there is a system of qualifications for donors or a system to ensure full traceability of blood and its components, so-called. a wake-up system. This project also contains provisions on the recognition of donors by the PCC. They're good ideas. On the other hand, it is worth noticing that the proposed law sets out rules for the carriage of blood and its components from outside the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area, which were not previously regulated in Polish legislation. It is during dynamic processes taking place in the global village, which has become the world, that is very important for the safety of Polish citizens. A separate topic is the e-blood electronic system, which will be run by public blood agencies according to the project. It's a system that makes good targets. However, the proposal for an e-blood system described in the explanatory memorandum raises serious doubts as to whether this is another way to drown public funds in IT projects, in particular from European funds. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, implementation of this project is planned in the years 2017 and 2019, while implementation costs will amount to PLN 120 million, with currently all RCKiK costs of PLN 10 and 12 million each year. The justification assumes the replacement of the entire infrastructure after 5 years. He doesn't say anything about system ownership and source codes. Puts all devices in one group due to failure. It does not explain what will happen if EU funds are run out. In my opinion, the description of the implementation of this project is highly questionable and needs to be checked. As we have doubts about some specific solutions, here already mentioned, e.g. the role of the Institute, but also the principle on which this system of e-blood should be created, whether it should be implemented by the Ministry of Health, or perhaps by the Ministry of Digitalisation, or the implementation should [[♪ The bell ♪]] take into account the current systems that exist in Poland, we request that this project be forwarded to the committee, including the Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, precisely because of doubts about this ICT system. On the other hand, of course, we will support this law as a very positive regulation for the Polish blood system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u141	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u142	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The provisions of the EU Directives of 2003, 2004, 2005 which are being examined and examined today are intended to ensure the safety of all blood recipients and donors and to influence the preservation of the relevant standards throughout the blood donation and blood treatment process from the moment of blood donation from the donor by examination, preparation, transport to release and transfer, transfusions to the recipient or recipient. The law includes a provision obliging all blood centers, blood treatments to run a quality system. It is intended to ensure that the whole process of blood collection and its components, testing, storage, transport will be under strict control and will meet all the required standards and standards, and that each stage will be described in a specific procedure and verifiable. The draft law also introduces legal bases that enable the functioning of the electronic system of e-blood. It is to be developed between 2017 and 2019 and is to be financed to a large extent within the framework of the Operational Programme. This system aims to increase access to modern blood collection solutions and their components and enable them to be used in medicine. This system is to collect information about blood donors, including rare-group donors. Minister! In my opinion, I think these are very good targets, but they often require a change of approach, enrichment of equipment from off-road facilities. It is a fact that these institutions operate many times thanks to commitment, tradition, sense of duty, professional preparation, but I think that given what awaits us, we should also... I presume that the Minister and his colleagues have also provided for the fact and the need for funding from different sources of all these actions which will improve the standard, improve the equipment, perhaps also where necessary, to improve the level of provision of individual procedures. This system will, as we say, support the management of blood services. The amendment of the law also includes provisions obliging centres, as I mentioned, to define and increase the requirements for the procedures provided. The proposal also includes an amendment to the law defining the scope of the data to be included and to be transmitted to this broad group of our fellow citizens, who constitute a group of honorary donors of blood. I think that there will also be a need for further work, for action in these changing realities of life to continue to inculcate this mission and this conviction, especially for young people, about the need to share this greatest or this huge treasure of blood. I remember this from my student days, from my student days, when I was also privileged to be among the people who were this group. In our view, the project is deliberate, well prepared and we will opt or propose that it be directed towards further work, so that these [[♪ The bell ♪]] doubts as to whether comments could have been made and analysed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u143	Thank you very much, sir. Are there Members willing to ask a question? If not, I ask Minister Konstanty Radziwił to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much for the overall positive approach of all speakers, representatives of all clubs to the project. This is very important because, as I said, the situation requires not only good work but also rapid action. Directly responding to the entire list of comments made by Mrs Gelert, I would like to say that it is precisely because we are simply racing against the time which is beating in terms of the actions of the European Commission and the European Court of Justice, where the complaint has already been brought, that we have decided at the Ministry of Health, and this opinion has been shared by the Council of Ministers that this cannot be a general reconstruction of the whole system, because there is simply no time for this. We are therefore looking at various issues which have just been the subject of the question or, in principle, Mrs Gelert's reflection on various things. Without going into detail, I would like to mention just one question, which is the possibility of medical paramedics passing blood. This is a controversial matter. She needs to think, she needs reflection, she needs discussion, and it's certainly not obvious enough that it can be introduced. I don't want to say yes or no, but this is just not the time to solve these cases quickly, and here we just have to act quickly. One more thing, and one more thing, in particular, in the case of the honourable Member's considerations, whether the Institute of Hematology or the Minister of Health is to be a leading institution. We have decided that, in fact, this is something that is included in this project, that precisely because of what she said, among other things. Mrs Mirror, so that the blood service is public service, not something that we do not know exactly where it is. As a result, a leading role throughout the system was given to the Minister of Health, not to other institutions. However, I would also like to point out very strongly that this law, although it may not solve all the problems of public blood service, is, however, significantly increasing the level of quality and thus the safety of blood circulation and, above all, the safety of donors and recipients. It seems that already this step, even though you will probably have to think about others, but it doesn't have to be done immediately, is already a significant step. Because, as I said, although in general the service of blood in Poland works well, it is based on regulations which are of such a nature, you can say, working. However, this is not only about meeting EU requirements, because it is not about knowingly filling what is in EU legislation, but simply about what guarantees quality and safety in a system way. With regard to Mrs Zwierzan's comments on whether the public blood service is really a service, I would like to say so that there is some doubt as to whether this money, this money trading should be so much, these prices and all that. But I would like to point out that this system is so designed today, and we don't turn it upside down. It is designed so that the RCKiKs are directed to a total of PLN 80 million from the state budget, while the rest of the funds comes from... There patients do not pay, they are not commercial enterprises in this sense, while these financial accounts are made between health care institutions. It so happens that the language of these settlements is indeed money and it is based on prices. However, I would like to draw attention to this - and I thank you for your attention to whether this question at all - how much should there be in the health system of the market and of commerce and how many services and missions should there be in the health system. I fully share that remark. I would like to point out that regional blood and blood centres have the status of independent public health establishments, and while our predecessors have tried to turn them into commercial companies, we certainly will not. The point is to keep the public of this service, definitely. I would also like to say that when it comes to the e-blood system - here Mrs Zwierzan cited an example of a patient who needs a rare blood group - it is this e-blood system, in which all donors will be in Poland, that allows even the patient in Podkarpacie to provide blood from a donor who is e.g. West Pomerania, right. Today it's actually done a little bit in the dark, in the phones, and somehow it's done, while the e-blood system should make it much easier and faster to get a rare blood type from a donor. Because even if the blood isn't in the resources, it's a donor whose data, including data on his blood type, his rare blood type, are in the system, and you can just ask him in an emergency, emergency mode to give blood to a particular recipient who's waiting for this blood, urgently needs it. Poland is so small an area that it can be done in really very short time. I would like to thank Mr Suchoni very warmly for paying attention to what is the essence of this project, namely quality and security. That's what we're focused on. These rules may seem a little bit complicated, a little bureaucratic, but that's what this is all about, and thank you for bringing this to your attention. As regards doubts about the e-blood system, whether it will not be another IT failure of the Polish state, well, it is actually difficult to guarantee, but I must say that we as a country have more and more experience in this area, and yet I hope that among others. What you're calling for, I mean. cooperation with the Minister of Digitization, also in this area, which is already taking place, because we are designing this solution, will ensure that it will not be allowed, so to speak, to such inexperienced tracks and with a high risk of failure. I would also like to point out - earlier Mrs Zwierzan talked about the need to ensure that only medical professionals have access to donor and recipient data - that the Centre for Health Information Systems is the administrator of the system, but the Minister of Health oversees all of this. And, of course, these requirements are met, as in all the projects that are necessary for access to data - this is necessary in the exercise of supervision - is carried out by the Minister of Health. So once again, I thank you very much for your kindness and, on the other hand, for your constructive approach to the matter, because it seems that the project is uncontroversial. This is a really big job, for which I would also like to thank the Minister of Health from the Ministry of Health, as well as other services, including the National Blood Centre and other people who participated in this project. We're really taking a big step forward, which doesn't mean the next one isn't necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed at this point. In the discussion, a request was made for additional referral of the draft law to the Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 13th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I close the list of Members. And I invite the first Mrs Bożena Kaminska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement I would like to dedicate to an exceptional person, an outstanding film and theatrical artist, Mr Andrzej Wajda, who less than five days ago celebrated his 90th birthday. It was on 6 March that many circles in our country celebrated the 90th birthday of Andrzej Wajda, a world-renowned director, Oscar winner for all his work, contribution to the development of the world cinema and honorary citizen Suwałk, honorary citizen of the cities of Gdańsk, Łódź, Radom, Opole and Gdynia. As Suwałczanka from this place on behalf of the inhabitants, in particular Suwałk, I would like to bring this person - an exceptional film and theatrical artist by Mr Andrzej Wajda, who was born on 6 March 1926 in Suwałki. His father, who was a professional officer, died in Katyn. Andrzej Wajda spent a time of war in Radom, where he participated in secret teaching, worked as a worker, warehouseman and porter. In 1942, he joined the Home Army. Initially, he was interested in painting, studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Cracow to finally choose cinema and film. In 1953 he graduated from the State Film School in Łódź. One of the founders of the Polish Film School, president of the Polish Filmmakers Association, artistic director of the Powszechny Theatre in Warsaw and director of the X Film Team, member of the prestigious French Academy of Fine Arts, winner of the most important awards at world festivals, with the Golden Palm and previously mentioned Oskar for his entire work at the head. Suwałczanie since 1 March 2016 celebrates the 90th anniversary of Andrzej Wajda's birth through organized exhibitions of posters, drawings and documentary films, which are not as well known to the general public as feature films. Andrzej Wajda made his debut in 1955 with a film "The Generation." In the years to come, he directed films that gave him recognition throughout the world, among others. Canal, Ash and Diamond, Promised Land, Marble Man, Iron Man, Katyn. The power of his films is the universal language of transmission, thanks to which Wajda film heroes live in the imagination of the mass audience on an equal footing with historical characters or heroes of classical literature. In the autumn of this year, after 61 years since the debut, a new film by Wajda is planned to be released, whose action takes place in Łódź in 1948 and 1952. From this point on, I would like to thank Mr Andrzej Wajda on behalf of Suwałczan and Poles for his film and theatre works, where he not only recreated Poland's history, but also screened literature, discovered author and operator talents, trained generations of directors, created iconic staff and scenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u147	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I wanted to thank you for the 500+ programme, because it is a programme prepared, as so far all professionals speak about it, to improve childhood. I note the good implementation of this programme in many municipalities, but it is especially well prepared for its implementation of the municipality of Tarnowskie Góry. From 1 April the law enters into force, the family will have financial support. Here I would like to stress that the municipality of Tarnowskie Góry has already undertaken to prepare this implementation perfectly since January. Social workers have been strongly involved and are already in the form of posters, information on the Internet, as well as the available media resources, making it clear how this task can be well done so that the family can receive money in time. Ladies and gentlemen, this project, which is good for Poland, opens after years a discussion on family policy. This is a historic moment. I could never agree with the slogan "violence in the family." Yes, there are such events, but our family is bound by love and the upbringing of a new generation, with the highest value. This program serves the family and improves fertility in the Polish country. I also wanted to stress, because many people make accusations that families can waste money, that they won't, because if money is suspected of being wasted, a social worker will be able to change this aid to in-kind aid or service. This is a very well prepared project, I think many families will benefit from it. I congratulate both the Ministry, the Government and the Prime Minister on this great challenge of family and family support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u149	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Teresa Nolas, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u150	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Today's parliamentary statement I wish to make on behalf of my colleague Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski and on behalf of my colleague. In order to make this statement, we have been mobilized to present to the High House a draft law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws, print No 293, which according to PSL, PO and Modern Members did not deserve, surprisingly, to continue to process in second and third readings, including in the Committee on Agriculture. On our behalf, I would also like to remind you from this place that last year, 19 February, the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers, after years of fighting our colleagues from the Western Pomeranian Voivodeship to stop selling Polish land in the hands of foreigners, decided to protest under the office of the Council of Ministers in Warsaw. In the so-called. The green town lasted 129 days and nights in the cold and cold, asking for amendments to the laws in question. There, too, we organized the National Day of Remembrance of Soldiers Cursed on March 1, where we spent Palm Sunday and Easter. It was there that we presented healthy Polish food to the inhabitants of Warsaw, where we also celebrated the next anniversary of registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). There we waited all 129 days for constructive talks with the government, which took place only after the first round of elections for the office of the President of the Republic of Poland, when the incumbent head of state lost to the candidate of PiS and now President of Poland Andrzej Duda. We do not remember from these hard days of goodwill from the coalition government of the PO-PSL government. On the issue that we have been discussing with the government, we have come to an understanding of a number of statutory provisions. Recognizing that it was better than nothing, we decided to suspend our protest. At this point, I would like to stress that the Law of 5 August 2015 passed by the Sejm did not find recognition among agricultural unionists. The hope was the upcoming elections and a change of power. Today, when the above became a fact and the PiS government leaned on the complexity of the problems, regulating it in legislation which will protect Poland's land from foreign capital in the best possible way, while at the same time making it easier for Polish farmers to access the land from the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury, there is another scandal and a political, media breach of facts. I would like to ask from this place, from the Parliament's speaker, to discuss the substantive debate on the draft in the Committee on Agriculture and further proceding. Finally, I would like to thank all those of you who, a year ago, together with the agricultural activists, the Solidarity and farmers from all over Poland, decided to fight for the Polish land, taking part in our protest. I would like to thank Zbysz Obrocki, Edzie Kosmal, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Andrzej Śniegula, Gabriel Janowski and all those of you who have shown their determination to the scale of the problem. I would also like to thank the authorities and the workers' activists. I would like to thank all the people of Warsaw who warmly and sincerely understood and supported us. We'll always remember you. Thank you for the American Polonia from Boston for the signatures supporting our action. I warmly thank Mr Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, for his presence and support, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, priest Tadeusz Rydzyk, priest Jerzy Garda for his community support and constant prayer. I am convinced that all these activities that start the debate on such an important legislative process will find recognition in agricultural environments, including Polish farmers, and that the Polish Parliament will adopt a good one for the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The bill. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u151	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Paweł Lisiecki, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of perpetual use into the Polish legal system in 1961 was justified by the legal standard of the Polish People's Republic, such that land property in cities should be owned by the State. Until 1989, perpetual use was virtually the only way to acquire state land in cities. During the period of the People's Republic of Poland, perpetual use was actually a law allowing the formation of residential buildings, which in the prescriptive and distribution economy was still not enough. At present, however, perpetual use, especially in the case of housing, is, it seems, an archaic law and not compatible with the needs of the real estate market, and especially to the needs of housing owners. It is well known that the vast majority of people will seek to strengthen the legal basis for their possession. It is known that people will try to convert the weaker right to a given thing to a stronger one. However, the present form of ownership of real estate, known as perpetual use, indirect between limited property rights and full ownership, creates uncertainty for people who, with the acquisition of the apartment, did not acquire land ownership, but only share in perpetual use. The right of perpetual use has several fundamental defects compared to the full ownership of the land. It is, first, limited in time, it can be established for a period of 40 to 99 years, second, it involves annual fees which increase with the increase in the value of the land. However, the market value of the apartment acquired together with the share in the perpetual use of the land is comparable to the value of the apartment acquired together with the share in the land ownership. Current situation, e.g. In the capital city of Warsaw, it causes the owners of apartments in multi-house buildings to have a very difficult, almost miraculous task: to gather all perpetual users in one place and to persuade them to jointly apply for the conversion of perpetual use into property. It is not difficult to imagine a situation where more than 90% agree to be transformed users, but just one person who will disagree, and then the whole elaborate plan falls. For example, in Warsaw, the only ones who can practically buy or convert perpetual use into property are those who have recovered buildings from Warsaw's capital city, which have been received on the basis of the decree of Bierut, but even in these cases there is a need for unanimity of all co-users. Consideration should be given to how to make the right of perpetual use easier to transform into property. If you can understand establishing perpetual use for people who want to build on the ground e.g. commercial galleries, while establishing perpetual use for housing purposes with a practical monopoly of self-government for land in cities is putting citizens under the wall. You don't want to buy an apartment with a perpetual use, you just can't buy an apartment. Therefore, I hope that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction will present a project which will transform perpetual use from the law into ownership, while future annual fees for perpetual use will become instalments for the establishment of ownership rights. Such a solution will benefit current perpetual users as it will give them ownership of the land, but at the same time will satisfy the financial needs of local governments, which are the main beneficiaries of perpetual use charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u153	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Within a few weeks, we will have another wave of illegal Islamic immigrants, and we are afraid that Europe will not be able to cope with them. We can already see today that there are no constructive, long-term solutions to the crisis that we are all facing. There are real concerns that the European Union will impose further amounts of illegal Islamic immigrants on Poland, which our club strongly does not agree to. That is why it is necessary in Poland to draw up a referendum on this issue, in order for Poles to say whether they want to accept illegal Islamic immigrants or not. Our club has already raised over 150,000. signatures on this issue and from this point of view I would like to appeal to all Poles to join the collection of signatures massly. Let's go visit the dinreferendal site. pl, let's print out a list for signing, collect these signatures among close friends and together, let's bring together a referendum in Poland so that we can reject possible future requests from Berlin or Brussels to install thousands more illegal immigrants in Poland. This is a real fear that together, we can dispel. Therefore, I ask everyone to join the collection of signatures on the dinreferendalny.pl page. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u155	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are still in the atmosphere of the celebration of the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed. A statement was made from this speaker showing the heroism of these steadfast soldiers. I also wanted to mention one of them before I went to the merits of the case. Captain. Antoni Rymsza nickname Max, Commander 3. Pluto 5. The Vienna Division of the AK, led by the legendary Major Zygmunt Szendzielarz. Mr. Rymsha and his wife Aldona, a paramedic from the same unit, were hiding under the assumed name of Wojtkowcy after the war. After the Communist authorities announced amnesty for actresses, they revealed themselves, believing that they would be able to live peacefully. But they weren't given it. In August 1948, Antoni Rymsza was arrested by the then Polish authorities and handed over to the Soviets. He was imprisoned first in Warsaw and later in the Soviet prison in Legnica, where I come from. At that time Soviet troops were stationed in Legnica and their headquarters were located. In a prison in the city centre, Antoni Rymsza was subjected to fancy torture during interrogation and investigation. At that time other actresses from all over Poland were also brought to this prison. Prisoners of other nationalities, including the Russians, were also held. Those sentenced to death were shot at night under a red wall in a prison courtyard at the bang of artillery tractors to drown out the arrows. In the morning, prisoners going to the latrine or to the yard saw a wall painted with fresh lime. Losers were mostly buried in prison. Anthony Rymsha was sentenced in February 1949 for treason against the Soviet Union and a fight against Soviet power for the death penalty. This sentence was converted by Wierchowy Soviet to 25 years of exile on Kolyma. He spent 11 years in Soviet Labs. On his return, he moved to Prochovice in Legnica County. The gunpowder is my birthplace. He died there on 4 July 1994 at the age of 80 and was buried in a prochowice cemetery. And going back to the prison building and buried in the prison grounds of the convicts, that can no longer be verified - the building is gone. Just after Legnica and Poland left in 1993 by the Soviet troops then the Polish authorities decided to tear down the prison building and build a gas station in its place. The Statoil gas station has been there since 1996. Two years later, a monument dedicated to the victims of Bolshevism was erected next to the gas station by the Legnica patriots. Today it is a place to pay tribute to soldiers cursed by patriotic environments and inhabitants of Legnica. Local authorities are not involved. On the other hand, they care for another monument: a monument of gratitude to the Soviet Army. A monument which cannot be removed without prior agreement with the Russian Federation. The monument, for which red paint was poured on the 20th anniversary of leaving Poland by the Soviet troops was punished by a fine of a young man, was punished by a Polish court. For several years the patriotic action of URSO - Remove the remains of the Soviet occupation has been conducted in Legnica. I think it's time that these remnants of the Soviet occupation, the symbols of enslavement, disappeared from public space. We owe it to the steadfast soldiers who are cursed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u157	Thank you very much, Member. We've exhausted the agenda. We've completed our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u158	Statement on the 90th anniversary of Czesław Cywiński's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 10 March this year. is the 90th anniversary of the birth of Czesław Cywiński, a national army soldier, a lieutenant colonel of the WP, a combatant and the President of the General Board of the World Association of National Army Soldiers, who died tragic death in the Smolensk catastrophe. Czesław Cywiński was born on 10 March 1926 in Vilnius. As a student of junior high he joined the Vilnius Free Poles Association. He then began his conspiracy activity, which he continued under the pseudonyms Skowronek and Ryszard during World War II. In autumn 1942 Czesław Cywiński joined 1. The Vilnius National Army Brigade, Juranda. The most important action in which he took part was the Operation Ostra Gate carried out in the framework of the action of the Storm. He fought for the liberation of Vilnius from German hands. In the summer of 1944, he was sent to a camp in Kaluga, where he worked on the logging of the forest. After returning to the country, he graduated from the Warsaw University of Technology and became a construction engineer. One of his initiatives was to rebuild part of the Pawiak prison for the purposes of the museum. Since 1996, Czesław Cywiński has been a member of the Bureau of the General Board of the World Association of National Army Soldiers, and nine years later he became president of this organization. In his office he placed three symbols to remind him that there is still something to fight for: the words of the AK soldiers' oath, a painting whose title can be translated as the first to fight, and the original banner fighting in the Vilnius brigade Kmicica. Therefore, as president of the World Association of National Army Soldiers he organized numerous sessions and historical clubs, sought to produce films on independent subjects, and fought for social and medical care for the veterans of the National Army. In September 2009 Czesław Cywiński was awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński as Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. He also received the Order of Polish Rebirth, the Order of Polish Rebirth, the Cross of Valiant Rebirth, the Silver Cross of Merit, the Partisan Cross and the Golden Medal of Merit for Defendance of the Country. He was also an honorary citizen of M.S. Warsaw. On 10 April 2010, Czesław Cywiński died tragic death in the catastrophe of the Polish aircraft TU-154 in Smolensk. He then went with 95 other people, including the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the Katyn crime. Five days after his death, he was appointed Colonel. The next day he received posthumously the Great Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland, and a year later - Honorary Badge of the name of General Stefan Rowecki. Czesław Cywiński was buried with military honors. The urn with his ashes rested in the Military Cemetery in Warsaw Powązki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Each year on 11 March, the Sołtys Day is celebrated throughout Poland, a celebration celebrated in order to express appreciation for the leaders, i.e. local representatives, usually rural, community. The Chiefs have already appeared in the Middle Ages. They were appointed by feudal masters, and their main responsibility was to collect rent and chair the village jury. They also served as rural judges. Over time, their strong position was partially limited. After the fall of communism, the council became the executive body of the village, i.e. the auxiliary unit of the commune. Today the Council elects the villagers, more and more often in direct elections. It usually becomes a person from a local community who stays up-to-date in local affairs. Today, the duties of the chiefs, apart from representing the council outside, include: convening rural meetings, implementing resolutions of the municipality council or collecting agricultural and forestry taxes. Every year the feast of the chieftains becomes more popular in the countryside. There are about 40,000 in Poland. Chiefs. Interestingly, the changes in customs have not missed rural areas. Until a few decades ago, the chiefs were practically exclusively men. Today, ladies make up almost a third of this group. On the occasion of Sołtys Day, I would like to wish all the village's carers and hosts the best wishes for their health, every prosperity, as well as the best possible cooperation with residents and municipalities. At the same time, I would like to thank you very much for the effort and effort to perform such an honorable function and for your commitment to the development and improvement of the quality of life of local communities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-11-sejm-13-3.u160	Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. That concludes 13. meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 14th session of the Sejm, convened on 16, 17 and 18 March 2016, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 13 min 34]]
