ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138599	Dear colleagues and colleagues continue with the work of the first item is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, first reading, P.Z. No 620 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Drazen Bosnjakovic, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138600	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable MPs and MPs, before us, for the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Prosecution, an extremely important law. Namely, the Law on a litigation procedure regulates procedures both before municipal courts and before commercial courts, so in all those cases relating to civil proceedings, in all those matters important to the economy and it is extremely important that these proceedings allow one swift and spotty treatment so that the cases are not long, so that the cases in the courts do not run for long, and in fact it is one of the key problems of our judicial system that we have a second course of action. However, all the changes that have so far been made to the Law on the Procedural Procedure were going to speed up, here is when I remember actually the items that were and how they were conducted 20 years ago, and today it is a huge difference from the concentration of the procedure itself, then the provisions of jurisdiction we were brought to the conclusion that the process still goes faster and more promptically. And so these changes that we are offering today we think will lead to further acceleration and in any case it will contribute to shorter cases, that, in fact, they are ending faster and that the parties get to those solutions that mean the protection of their rights and interests in the process before. The key things that we would like to regulate through this law could be said that the Institute of Audit is this way we will redefine it in the Law on the Procedural Procedure in relation to how it is set up today. We have a system in which today is almost possible because of that extraordinary revision is almost possible in all kinds of procedures without their value, no matter how significant this particular procedure is. We have a regular revision of that censorship 200 and 500,000 kuna for the permission of an audit, but that extraordinary audit institute actually allows almost all cases to be subject to it. It's been pretty crowded by the Supreme Court, and today we have more than 10,000 pending cases of audit and the decision in these cases is waiting for more than 3, 4 and 5 years, which is actually not a good message and it's certainly not good because when a review is accepted then the procedure is back to its beginning and it creates certain dubiosis. Today, through the new Institute of Audits, we would introduce an audit by permission, according to the Supreme Court's permission, and that would mean that anyone who has a need and who has a particular reason to declare an audit, and in the law we have counted which are, in the first instance, when different decisions exist in relation to the second-degree verdict, there is an unequal practice, then there would be an application for permission of the audit, and that would be precisely why. Another procedure would be if we didn't have any Supreme Court practice in a particular type of case. The third case would be when there is a uniform practice of the Supreme Court and the decision of the second-degree court is in line with that practice, but we have come to the situation that there is a different decision of the European Court of Human Rights or a different legal position of the Court of Justice of the EU. This would also be one of the reasons and, in this whole procedure, the Supreme Court would then take a position on whether or not it allows for that revision. If it allows then in one procedure it must decide on the audit and practice requirements and the position it then takes would be mandatory for all courts. The extremely important thing that we want to do with these changes is the visual dispute. The obvious dispute is when, in one or more of the courts, cases that are similar, which are in the same framework and in fact and legally looking at that time, first instance courts can request a position, legal opinion of the Supreme Court, and which when they accept to enter that procedure and when they give such a legal opinion in those cases so that they should be resolved when it is apparent, that practice is being spilled into all these cases and in some ways we will get one speed and we will get a solution for all the types of cases covered by this view dispute. What I also find extremely important is that we want to introduce electronic communication in municipal courts, so communication between all state bodies. It is a very, very important step in this law because we now have the conditions, we now have the infrastructure that within commercial courts everyone can communicate electronically with this court and we have the de facto possibility of what we want to introduce without paper. It still doesn't go as well as we wished for it, it's still not in principle an obligation. But with this law, we now prescribe it as an obligation and say that the court must be electronically communicated and the state's bodies therefore and the state's attorney and the court's experts and interpreters, but this time we prescribe that lawyers must do so. It's a big step and it's a big step in a future trial, so we want to bring the file completely without paper, and it'll mean communication, the lawyer writes to the court, press enter, content in court, court when it's necessary to pass it on to another party, also to another party, when the court makes a verdict, the same action, the verdict comes to the lawyer's office. So we don't have peppers, it's getting faster, it's getting simpler and here, this law just insists on it. So that's what they are, I'd say three of the most significant changes we want to make. We are also introducing further procedures, the possibility of using modern technologies, so that the court hearing can be held remotely through the video link of the conference. This means that not some witness from some place must travel to court where the debate is happening but it is possible there in his local court to also be through video link to hold a hearing. In addition, the same important decision in this law, which we propose a solution, is on the cost of the procedure. Here are the practitioners, there's them here in the assembly, they know how long it used to be taken in court, to calculate the costs, who's what they owe them. Today, the technique is such that the costs of both sides and sides must be accounted for, and then it is beaten against the percentage of how successful it is. We now say here, the percentage of success will be calculated immediately and in accordance with that percentage, that party that has succeeded in the process, will recognise just as much of the costs that were needed, because perhaps some were not needed. That means if I've been looking for 100 things, the court has given me 70, I'm going to get 70% of the expenses I needed in that lawsuit. And it's a clear provision now, and there won't be any more big calculation and reflection. We also give greater authority to judges related to a peaceful solution to the dispute. Here's a peaceful solution to the dispute, we have a legal framework for it, however, the same figures are modest, and basically the results are pretty bad, and with this we're giving the judge more opportunities, not to suggest, but actually to the parties and determine, says, try to settle the dispute peacefully. A peaceful solution to the dispute would be very important and very important, because it has many advantages, it is cheaper, the parties actually, after a peaceful solution of the dispute have not closed the door, some kind of common co-operation and we count that this provision will also be extremely, extremely important. In addition, we simplify the procedure before trade courts. Here we want those minor litigations, which are produced, and regarding the payment of debts for water consumption, the consumption of gas, which we have now burdened trade courts with, we want to transfer it to municipal courts, because we have municipally strengthened the merger with the misdemeanor, we have the capacity and we think that trades should be used for those very disputes, which are important to traders, in order to actually, how they amount to money blocked, because they are conducted in commercial courts, in order to give them and release even more capacity. In addition, it is a very important arrangement, as we have now set up, to debate before a second-degree court, a court of appeal. It is now such a provision that, if the appeal comes and when the county court decides to hold a hearing in that appeal, that it cannot actually respond to those facts, which someone in the complaint warned, which have not been established, which have not been examined and it is in fact somehow blocked in that procedure. We are now opening up the possibility, therefore, that when a second-degree court decides to hold a debate, it will not only discuss what has already been discussed, but rather determine the facts that have not been established before the first-degree court. Here, these are the key changes that we want to introduce by amending and supplementing this Law on the litigation process, and we think that's one big step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138601	Before we go any further, I'd like to ask the MPs and representatives to welcome the students of the Third Primary School from Čakovec. ... The opening exhibition included 3 replicas, representative Goran Aleksic first reported, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138602	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister Bošnjaković, I have two questions, namely, I would like to make some more changes to the Law on Prosecution. It has been shown through practice to be good and necessary. In fact, there are situations, as we have now had in the collective dispute, where new situations and new facts happen during the dispute itself, for example. The prosecutor has been suing for the payment of interest, and in the meantime, a fine currency clause has been ruled. And now the prosecutor can no longer require a currency clause, as the preparatory hearing has already passed, he can no longer require the amendment of the claim to more. So in some situations, especially prescribed, especially when such things happen, it might be good in the Law in the litigation procedure to allow a man to extend the claim, that he does not have to press another lawsuit again. Because he'll certainly be on the basis of new situations, new things to file a new lawsuit, better to allow him to settle everything in one lawsuit right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138603	Thank you. The reply to the replica by Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138604	Thank you very much for this question, actually here is a very important concentration of procedure, it's very important, actually, that you put everything you have on the table in order not to stretch the procedure. I remember exactly what I said some 15 years ago, you were able to put new evidence, new proposals and such things during the procedure. And that actually led to the intense stretching of the dispute. We now have the possibility but it is very strictly laid down in the law when it is possible to suggest some new evidence until the end of the procedure. That must be when you really prove that you couldn't handle him before. And as far as this is concerned, there are provisions on extending the claim and, eventually, it has to go to a new lawsuit, and it's possible to merge two proceedings into one procedure. But about what you said, we'll definitely do another analysis by the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138605	Representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138606	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, amendments and additions to this Law on Procedural Procedure, and with a view to improving the judicial system, reducing the length of litigation, but also reducing costs, is being introduced among other things by this Institute of View Procedure. However, it is said that, as far as parties themselves are concerned, they can handle it only if it is approved by the Supreme Court. There are currently 18,000 cases at the Supreme Court, and if each of them were to be dealt with for an hour, it would take about 2 years. Is that why, for example, the Supreme Court approves, will now increase the number of cases, is there some analysis, where the Supreme Court could be further buried on these cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138607	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138608	Thank you very much. In the Supreme Court, it is now not a number of 18 thousand pending cases, much less, I think that it is now at some 10,000 reduced, and as far as this request is concerned by the Supreme Court, we think it is justified, that the Supreme Court, in that fundamental request, has already decided whether those basic facts are fulfilled that it is going into further proceedings at all. Clearly, the proposal will list relevant matters and the Supreme Court will, on the basis of what is visible to it from the file, be provided with documentation in addition to all of this. He will decide whether there are conditions to move on. I think what you asked me precisely, I don't think that's going to lead to the burden, but, in fact, it's going to lead to a simplified procedure at the Supreme Court and that we're going to avoid new backlogs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138609	Representative Miroslav Tudjman reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, for speaking here about the intensity, that is, the intention of this whole communication between courts, that is, in commercial courts going by electronic means. The question is, is it envisaged who will deal with the security aspect of this communication? Whether this is already the first system of protection, the second one that will monitor and control it and the third one is placed parallel to it, the problem of documenting and communication, or repositories, which will have it. There are still a number of aspects, not only the credibility of documents, the protection of personal data, etc. So I'm interested in that dimension.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138611	Replication response, Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138612	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We're taking care of the security aspect, de facto, there will be certified signatures, not everyone will be able to get into those items, but the only ones who actually participate in them. And on the other hand, it won't be possible to have any documentation as it pleases, but definitely we'll have a secure system and our informers are taking care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138613	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The first who, the first club of MPs to report for the debate, is the HDZ Representatives' Club, will speak for them by representative Marija Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138614	Good afternoon, Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, here in front of the HDZ Club, I will say a few words on the amendment and addition of the Law on Proposal Procedure. The law on litigation, is a fundamental choice of litigation law and has so far experienced multiple amendments and additions, with the aim of solving identified shortcomings and implementation problems, and to advance and civil legal protection systems, in particular by speeding up and reducing the costs of the litigation process. The aim of these proposed amendments is also to improve the functioning of the overall judicial system, as well as to accelerate and reduce the duration of the procedure itself and thus reduce the costs of the process. As we are aware ourselves, it has been generally in society to change how the judicial system does not work well, it does not work fast enough, to achieve swift and effective justice, in a way that the decisions of the court are made at a certain time, which would thus achieve that goal. So I think that these proposed amendments and additions, which are, above all, aimed at discharging courts and shortening procedures, the length of the litigation process itself, are welcome and that if we achieve, at least to some extent, a reduction in the duration of the judicial procedure, that we will also achieve that, among our citizens, a better perception of the smog of the judicial system. The minister spoke very closely about the basic amendments proposed by this proposal, and I will also point out that my opinion is particularly important to change the audit institutes and also this review process. I think that although some skeptics will say that in this way we may not achieve the goal we want, I would commend the Minister and the Ministry for having decided on this step, because I certainly believe that if we see that a solution, over a certain long period of time, has not produced good results in practice, that we should certainly try to find and move on to a new system, a new solution and there should be no fear of what results it will give. It should certainly be valorised through a certain period after application and we will see then what are the pluses and what are the shortcomings of such a new introduced way, which is proposed under the law. I believe that this situation, as the Minister said, is the Supreme Court's congestion, is now that the revision is practically allowed in each case has led to a practically non-sustainable situation in the long term and I think that in this way, when we go to the possibility of review only when it is allowed to reduce the burden of the Supreme Court and that we will reach a much better situation through a certain period of time. As far as the review process is concerned, I think it is also a good institute which in some ways allows the adoption of a legal position by the Supreme Court in all those procedures where it is expected that in a large number of procedures where the same legal and factual situation can be practically solved in the same way, I think that this institution will also lead to the desired acceleration of proceedings and that we will thus have less costs of proceedings and that it will certainly contribute to the same thing that we want to achieve in the entire judicial system and this is more effective. As for the transition to a more complete system of functioning of all those who are stakeholders in the very judicial procedure of electronic communication, I think it is in line with both new technological achievements and all that we want to introduce through the system of administration, state administration and through the system of local administration, so here we are through the system of justice, so I welcome it anyway. As far as other newspapers are concerned, I also believe that it is very important that the cost of the dispute be calculated in the procedure itself, and in this way the courts will also in some way be slightly relieved of that part of the technical work and it is also important that the paper prescribes a 15-day single period of appeal in all kinds of proceedings. Here I won't be longer, the minister was very detailed, I think all these proposed newspapers are good and are going towards creating conditions for a more efficient judicial system in litigation procedures and that, over a certain short period of time, we will be able to valorise the positive effects and the HDZ club will therefore support the above-mentioned amendment and addition of the law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138615	Representative Orsat Milenic will speak on behalf of the SDP club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138616	... With my associates, I've already welcomed you all, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] First, in the tone that it is so far, I would like to commend the same in the greatest part of the adoption of this law and the proposed amendment. Any changes to the CAP that are going to speed up the process and here, which is very important for the introduction of new technologies and other ways of communication is welcome. Of course, there is a need to balance with party protection and the quality of the trial, so these are always two requirements that need to be balanced and I think that this law is in the greatest part of the right direction. As for these provisions on the cost of the procedure, we absolutely support, as regards the gradual abandonment of the written recording of the hearing, too, I think it is in the end line one step which we need to take as soon as possible and which judiciary introduces into the new era of digital communication. The same applies to communication between parties now, and, firstly, with courts then and among parties, with state authorities, etc. What's totally to say hello and it's nice to be happening, it's discharging trade courts from these let's say, communal fees, etc., so disputes that actually do not belong to trade courts except by the nature of parties. Commercial courts should be specialized and it is good not to deal with such disputes. What I would like to warn here is not about this law, at least not directly and it is that in recent times, it does not only apply to the mandate of this government, we have an increasing trend of burden on municipal courts and I know that municipal courts are strengthened by offenders, however realistically, it is a completely different branch of law and these are judges who will need a lot of time to get involved in this a little bit, let's say, in a general civilian and general civilian in municipal courts, especially in large courts and judges who do so are very, very difficult situations. So we're almost with every law, I say, we did it with consumer bankruptcy, with this, that, so someone says that right now we're just, we're pushing everything towards municipal courts, but judges in particular in general, civilians are in a very difficult situation, you have a trend that in fact most judges are going into specialized family this, etc., norms are very difficult to achieve in large courts and that's not what I would ask the ministry to pay attention and to see how to do this. As far as I'm concerned, another thing that may be detail, but I mean, I'd like to point out to him, small-value disputes, you're saying that the appeal doesn't delay the performance, there needs to be a very careful one. So you will often find that someone will be completed, that your money will disappear, and if they succeed by appeal, they will never see them again. My suggestion is to introduce some sort of transaction account or something so that the money can be removed from the defendant's account or the one who lost but not to be transferred to the prosecutor's account because unfortunately we are all aware that it can get some kind of d.o.o. and something that these money can often disappear and then actually the party that succeeds with the appeal will have no more to charge than who. So this is good for discipline and I support it completely because it's often and vice versa that there's nothing to charge from later on, but let's put some transaction account there will be dealt with more quickly, these procedures are quick, but let the money be somewhere in between. Because I say money once it sits down, disappears, it's hard to see later. The two things I left behind for the end and which are the most significant are absolutely visual slowness and revision. As far as the visual dispute is concerned, I fully support it, I think it's a good thing, what I'd like, and what I think you should consider between the two readings, so I'll show you. This is especially in light of the revision of the possible need to include second-degree courts not only first-degree, because you will also have a complaint, it may happen that second-degree courts face the problem and need of a view dispute, and no more revision, only by permission, I know that it might be in collapsing but consider whether it is necessary to give it to second-degrees. And secondly, what is potentially put into the problem of the view dispute, I don't have a solution here, I can only point it out, but it's up to you to think together about whether it's even needed to be solved in which direction, which is the next situation. Here we are all sitting here suing the council for something in front of different courts, different we have lawyers and different we see essentially the same legal situation, even relying on different provisions of maybe material law, like that or something very similar. So we belong in one way under the review dispute and the court will recognize it, the question will be asked to all courts, and all the courts will say that is it, we will ask the Supreme Court. However, what is the lack of potential? If my colleague Shuker and I weren't as represented, although my subject may go up, you'd be unhappy because the whole series of arguments you put in your procedure you won't be able to use, will only be decided by what I've defined, so it's the same legal thing, but we look differently at it. So, what you should be able to do is let some kind of special mix-up in a short time, means that people who, that those whose disputes can also contribute to solving, because if you just pull one out and say here by my word, are going to get rid of all these cases, and I may have written a bad lawsuit, maybe I haven't made a good argument, and then they can all be in a potential problem. So that's what I'm saying is a great thing is a visual slowdown and that's what we need to go with, but we need to think about whether there's a solution and what are the dangers in this. So that's my proposal between two readings to see you put it on the table. The other thing is the revision, and it's certainly a controversial issue, and there are different views on it. I understand the situation, and I told my colleagues that I also appreciate the courage that they've stepped in this direction at the moment because something needs to be done because the current arrangement is not good. The items are piled up, what's the worst parties don't get the legal protection they're supposed to get. And that is, and that is the essence of the existence of courts, that the parties are not given legal protection, because of the slowness of the proceedings, because of the accumulation of cases at the Supreme Court, because of the inability of the Supreme Court to even the case-law, because of that, etc. One step is what we've just said is the view dispute, the second step is the revision. However, first purely technical. It is illogical to allow a board of five judges to decide on the authorisation of the audit, so whether an audit will be allowed and then the same five-judge council decides on the audit itself. So if the system remains to reduce this first step, you understand, because 5 people, 5 judges will decide whether you can even file a review, and then 5 judges will decide on legal issues from the audit, is not logical. You're spending these first five judges, you're wasting the council, I don't think there's any need. So it's just one technical thing. But the question is first real, I don't have an answer for it, but it's realistic that every party will ask for a review. And every party will write to the Supreme Court, because you now have a system when the party comes you can simply tell strangers you have no right to that because you are not in this VPS or you do not fall under the law slow in it and OK, the matter is solved. Now there's hardly a party who won't try to take advantage of it. So you'll get the effect back on the Supreme Court. Secondly, in a second-degree procedure now in front of the Court of Appeal, you are in fact extending the powers of the Court of Appeal to modify it can actually discuss new facts, it can in some way lead to a whole new debate, which is essentially a first-degree decision, although it is formally second-degree. And you're actually through it and through inability, I'm not saying that the revision and by the existing system would be the solution to it, I'm just saying what we're going to have right now. We're going to have a situation where the parties, because of the court's authority, are going to decide on a new one, this as it is now arranged, are actually only going to solve things in one degree and only this second-degree court. And that's the potential problem. How it's going to work out, whether it's going to end up getting to the Constitutional Court, whether it's going to be one question, and when you narrow down the right to review, then we're really in trouble. Thirdly, this is none of your business, this is about the current arrangement, but I'm just setting it up as absurd. When you look at the laws that allow the revision, meaning of everything that happens in this country we say that the revision is, say, allowed in the publication of documents, and it's not like there will be no automation allowed in the dispute I don't even know at what stage of that rocket S300 where maybe the value of the slow couple billion kuna against the Republic, there's no more revision, there's actually no Supreme Court actually not going to be involved. But the correction will be sent to the Supreme Court. Let's talk about work disputes. So we also have automation allowed audits in each individual work dispute and we can say that this is okay with the aspect of worker protection, etc. However, according to this system, when you go into bankruptcy and you lose 3,000 jobs, there is no revision. If there's some reason potential and it's really illogical. So here we're going to give an individual opportunity, not a possibility, but always the Supreme Court will have to decide, and here, in fact, the Supreme Court will say yes, we will not, even if we don't get the conditions for the revision won't decide. There's 3,000 jobs there's only one thing. So this isn't just about these changes right now, I'm just telling you what kind of system we have now set up and why the revision is extremely sensitive and important and why it's not good to break it. I'm sure you'll take advantage of the opportunity between reading some of the things, maybe it's a good step, so correct over time. We also had a question of entry into force of certain provisions, I don't know, surely.../incomprehensible/... my colleague Alexic is after me in the Franak case, whether a viewable dispute should take effect before it can be applied to such items, not waiting until 1.9, so these are some things that are also to be considered. But I'm saying this with the revision, first of all, what I said about the visional dispute, find a way to protect the interests of the others who are in the dispute, and it will only be decided on the subject of one, and secondly on the revision that we don't put ourselves in a position to actually put the Supreme Court first to be burdened with the application for an audit proposal in each case. OK, they can decide it in a dubious manner then it will go to the Constitutional Court to assess whether it is right or not, but they have made a decision that can be done, maybe they will question it again, etc., so that's one question. But it's actually an important question of how to achieve balance, so the Supreme Court really decides on matters of importance, whether to extend this legal one, means when the legal review is always allowed, and I've now given you two per se absurd examples of the publication of the correction and the individual work dispute, and where the loss of jobs is much greater, it can't, unless it's allowed by the Supreme Court. So these are issues that are there, which need to be resolved because this is extremely, extremely important and good change, these are good changes, it's up to us or the Ministry to ensure that when they go, they bring as good a result as possible. And I say it all together, and that's why I've also taken the position on the board that for now we'll be held back about the law in the first reading precisely because of these questions that we've now opened, even though we generally support it even though a solution is found for them, we'll absolutely support it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138617	Representative Goran Aleksic will speak on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGE Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138618	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we have before us an important law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, and I am very sorry that this has not been proposed before, and I am sorry that I did not remember such a thing because this review procedure is one excellent thing and my colleague Milenić said well, the review procedure should take effect at the same time as the law, there is no reason to wait it is a very important thing, and now I will explain why it is an important thing. As we know, we have the Franak case, which is still ongoing and has not yet been completed, in which they have emerged, a whole series of legal issues have emerged in private court proceedings. And these legal issues waited for their solution for 4.5 years, people had legal uncertainty they didn't know how to handle in court, so I'm going to give a few examples of what was going on. The first important question was the issue of antiquity of claims, according to some decisions of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, of the limitation of the claims if the integrity of the contractual provisions or the nullity of the contract is established for 5 years as well as for all other situations. What does that really mean? For example. You have some contract provision that is worthless, you contracted a contract 10, 15 years ago, you had no idea that the contract provision was worthless, you had no idea about it, and now you come to court here, you determine the integrity of the contract provision, the court says we understand each other, calling for no harm to be done, and now the court finds in the end that the contract provision is worthless. However, despite the fact that the contractual provision is worthless, you have no right to receive any money because you are obsolete. Imagine the logic, someone robs you for money because they contracted with you an existing contract provision because if it's worthless then she doesn't exist there, based on it gets a bunch of money and then the court tells you no you won't get anything you're out of date. I will draw you a parallel with the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia does not have such rules, the Republic of Serbia has a rule that, in the event of disability, the outdated start to run from the power of judgment, so when the verdict becomes a power of power they have the next 10 years then the opportunity to take their money. I'm afraid, I haven't explored it, but I'm afraid that it was actually ours, too, but someone was going to meet and it was politically changed. I get that impression because it's unnatural. It's unnatural to have the right to call for nothing as long as you live, but once you've established that integrity, you don't have the right to claim it. That's not normal. It also wouldn't be normal for something that was 50 years ago, so now you're looking for it, it wouldn't be normal, either, but there's some possibility that it could be solved in a different way. I already have a suggestion on how to handle it, to be a wolf full of sheep and sheep, for example. If it's any good, so we know it's useless, you can see it from the plane, that's okay, no problem, if it was 50 years ago who cut you, you won't get your money. However, if something was harmful in a way that we don't know it's harmful, and we just have this case where there's no known harm. In my opinion, the right to claim should in that case begin to flow, at the time when the fact is established, that something is harmless. For example. the integrity of the currency clause CHF was established in 2018 and only from the moment it was established is it beginning to run out of time for complete amounts in this regard. And well, the Supreme Court, has decided precisely on a collective trial, that the statute of limitations is not valid, as for private processes as previously calculated. For the collective court trial, the Supreme Court said that collective protection would not make sense, if it were now determined that something was unfair and harmful and now man because of an age-old claim, there is no right to claim. So the Supreme Court, in a way, changed court practice, actually filled a hole, because there was a hole in collective proceedings and he said, by pressing charges in a collective court process, the course of aging and the power of judgment, if it's in favour of the prosecutor, is starting to run from the beginning and that's why we're not out of date. But what is the problem with this Supreme Court decision now? She arrived late, not still late, but relatively late, she arrived only in March 2018 and people were entitled to a claim for overpaid interest received in June 2014 and they had all this time had the right to insecurity, did they not know whether they had the right to seek, 5 years from the day of the lawsuit or have the right to seek full amounts, since the beginning, when the bank began to engage unfairly? And only four years after a final verdict, concerning the interest rate, was passed only four years after that, the Supreme Court decided that we were out of date. And why hasn't he decided before? Well, because there hasn't been a single review in the Supreme Court before that. As soon as the review came to the Supreme Court on this issue, the Supreme Court decided relatively quickly, within half a year. That we had a visual procedure at the time, that we prescribed it in 2014 for example. We would not have the problem, but the first dispute that would appear for overpaid interest, with a question of outdated claims, would be sent to the Supreme Court as a reviewing dispute, would be resolved and would be worth everything, all such cases. And that's why it's very good to prescribe this kind of visual dispute, which is kind of precedent, although we don't have presidential right, we had court practice, so when the Supreme Court decides something, again, that lower court can decide otherwise. However, of course, when the lower court decides otherwise, if that issue comes to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court will abolish such a decision, because it is the contrary to the views of the Supreme Court, because yet it is the Supreme Court that decides on law in the Republic of Croatia, in those cases where the law is not decided legally. Here's a really good thing it's going to be like that, but I'm appealing that then the review procedure, the inspection dispute, is prescribed to take effect with the law. There's no reason to wait, because we still have unresolved legal issues, it's still not all settled, one of the legal issues that we've solved, and again it's relatively late to resolve the question of the right of converted loans to compensation. We have 50 out of 150,000 people, who have raised CHF loans, and 55 thousand have converted CHF loans into euro loans. And now a legal question has arisen in courts, do debtors, who have converted CHF loans, the right to sue, to establish unfair contractual provisions and to demand overpaid amounts on that basis? The conversations were during 2016, and the decision was made only two weeks ago this year. So for three years, people had legal uncertainty, they didn't know if they could sue or can't sue, it's been a long time, antiquated claims for overpaid interest, in the case of francs, on June 13th of this year. People still have very little to sue for overpaid interest, they still have plenty of time for the course, but their interest is overpaid, and Zeitnot is because they didn't have legal certainty, they didn't know if they could sue or can't sue. Now they know I can. However, a new legal issue is now emerging. Despite the fact that we have the right to sue, despite our legal interest, to establish unfair contractual provisions, but we now have one problem again, we do not know how the courts will determine these overpaid amounts. We know how it should be, but until the courts find out how it should be, we can just say, that's how it should be, but until the court finds out, we don't have a justice and we still don't have legal certainty, how exactly to make a claim for payment. So, we're constantly spinning around and we're constantly biting ourselves by the tail, because we don't have legal certainty, 125 thousand Croatian citizens, of which 125 thousand 55 thousand have no legal certainty, he doesn't know how to make a claim. Do you sue for a worthless contract? Because, according to the Court of Justice of the EU, C118/17, which refers to a situation similar to that in the Republic of Croatia where Hungarians also returned the interest paid by law, regulated the interest rate and converted CHF credits into forints, so one consumer still sued the bank and demanded that its contract be declared worthless despite this because if the contract is declared worthless, it still has enough, enough to be returned by the bank and then the Supreme Court of Hungary requested an answer to the previous question whether the prosecutor had the right to sue, they had the right to seek something after a law was passed that was relatively similar to the law in Croatia. The EU court has again sided with consumers, too, and I can say that the EU court wins itself every time it makes a new decision on consumers, each time that decision is in favour of consumers, so the EU court said firstly that the contract provision on the currency clause is the main subject of the contract, the EU court considers that if the main object of the contract is no harm in this case the whole contract. It is considered by the EU court. It seems to me that our courts do not have that kind of attitude, I read among the lines that they are not exactly the attitude, which means that they do not respect the EU's right in fact. The EU court said, it did not say exactly that, he said, if the main object of the contract is worthless and that is the currency clause, this court seems to be doing nothing, but the national court decides on it. There he has now given free national court to the national court to decide on this, but we at national courts have no solution to this problem but if we had a review procedure, the problem would already be resolved because the suit for a worthless contract had but no solution. I sued that my contract was worthless, I lost at the first degree, and for one prosaic reason, the judge of the municipal court in Zagreb found that everything I claimed in the lawsuit was correct, that all this was true, that it was definitely found that I was not alerted to the risks seen even by the testimony of the bank clerk who on my question did you warn me of the difference between the currency clause CHF and the currency clause of the euro, said in court? Well, I didn't because I didn't even know that. She didn't even know, as she would know, the bank administrations didn't teach their officers how to talk to the debtors, so these officials had no idea what the risk was in the CHF currency clause, they had no idea, they didn't have a soft relationship, they negotiated such loans themselves because they didn't even know what the problem was. So, what did the judge of the Municipal Court in Zagreb say? In her judgment, she wrote it like this. Your contract would have been useless if you hadn't made the conversion of CHF credit. This sentence is based on it, but I have now received confirmation in the Supreme Court that it is not, first I received confirmation in the EU court that it is not so where the EU court has said that the law must not reduce my rights, in other words, if I have the right to a zero contract then it must be decided to me because by law my right must not be reduced so I assume that the County Court in Split will abolish that judgment of the Municipal Court and return it to the first degree of rejuvenation. Now, what I'm going to do with that, I'm going to see because we haven't solved that legal question again because our contracts are either worthless or worthless. So this is a very important legal issue that needs to be addressed urgently, which is why the view dispute should go into effect at the same time as the law, in order to immediately raise such issues and to resolve them immediately. So we have several outstanding legal issues still in the case of Franak and one of the unresolved is of course about the audit of banks that we can't wait for and I hope that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia will decide soon on these bank audits, and I thought, according to my findings, that it will be until March this year but it wasn't until March this year, so I hope it will be by summer. Here in the individual, in the final debate, I'll say some more things, so far, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138619	Representative Stjepan Curaj will speak in front of the Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138620	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, not to repeat everything and on behalf of the promoters what my colleagues have said before, I think this is the way we should have gone before, surely this is the way that citizens we meet are actually citizens because the biggest regret they give us when they look at us, other than the triangulation of the administration as such is the judiciary, the judiciary processes, the procedures that last for years and years. What we do with these changes in one way is we introduce the small door so we can say this one kind of presidential part and optimization actually, efficiency and economics. How? It also means that, as stated in the proposal itself, it is actually working to remove problems in the application of the law and to improve the functioning of the judicial system, to speed up and reduce the duration of court proceedings, and in fact to reduce costs. So absolutely efficient, economical and of course functional or better said, the best way to be for all parties in the process. What's going on here? So as we've heard, it's done the changes to the timely review and there's a review procedure going on, and in this review procedure, what I said is that in one way it reminds me of a kind of precedent law, and usually it's me who went to law school and took... Roman law, one saying says.../The speaker speaks Latin./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] "Not twice about the same," it is thought that the same thing cannot be tried twice, but presidential law has drawn out that when there is a precedent on such a thing, it applies. And de facto it happens to us today that different courts decide differently in the same things. And even sometimes the same courts, and different judges, and about the same thing or very similar, aren't the same parties, so it's not the rule, not bis and I'm going, not twice into the same broken, but almost similar things. And of course it slows down, that it introduces uncertainty, because someone who enters certain procedures is always at risk, when someone does an investment here and commercial courts are mentioned, there is always a problem in commercial courts when going into investment, disputes in trade in which that legal certainty is satisfied. With every investor, it's the basic thing when someone comes to do some investment when they hire a law firm to check in which way he's legally insured and secure. That it won't be delayed because of some permit, because of complaints from perpetuated people, and that the money that costs only stands and stands will actually amount to the highest costs, greater and higher costs, and that will actually put into question the investments themselves. Therefore, the review as an extraordinary legal remedy of the party can only be submitted if the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has previously authorised them or is permitted by law. So that's what we're actually creating, not just a feeling, but a real finality when something right is that it's like that, that it's finally. We regrettably, if we withdraw the parallel with some current processes where we have a final verdict, Croatia is going into arbitration dispute, a hop audit is being sued, everything falls into the water. Huge damage, I'm not saying it's being dealt with by this law is another type of procedure and all, but just as an example I'm talking about, huge damage, enormous uncertainty, so something when it's legal, and it's not even the last word anymore, and it's over. Of course there must be the Institute of Audit, the Institute of Constitutional Sues, but surely that burying and under the unclear rules that we've had so far, the rules actually that everyone can endure the revision is just the thing that it costs in relation to the value of the dispute, that we've buried and moved perhaps focus with what's important. Therefore, if it is a legal issue on which a decision of the second degree is deviating from the case-law of the Court of Auditors, it means that, in the circumstances where it is permitted, if there is no legal issue of the Court of Auditors, it is allowed, if it is a legal issue in the case of a judicial case of the Court of Auditors, it is not uniform and that is envisaged, etc., although the Court of Auditors has already taken up the understanding and judgment of the second instance is based on that understanding but would, in particular, respecting the reasons laid down during the previous first instance and appeal proceedings, therefore even some specific.../incomprehensible/... So everything is well summed up, I don't think there's anything to add, in which legal and what options can be submitted for review. And then we come to a review process that actually wants to speed up the action in all those procedures where the measurement of things is actually about the legal issue. And which are run in a larger number, so what I initially said was more similar or the same things in different courts or in the same court than different judges, unequal practice, but actually it's not even an uneven practice, it's just a matter of time, to speed up. That when there is already a viewing specimen about being, about the measure that it is then applied. And by a decision taken by the Supreme Court on this legal issue, that must be an important issue for the uniform application of law, it is precisely this uniform application of the rights and equality of all in its application. So it has to be the same for everything, it can't have about the same and similar things different attitudes, different decisions because it endangers the uniqueness of our system of justice or justice system. So, as for costs, of course, then you automatically look at it and at costs, we're reducing costs we're talking about ineconomy, it's speeding up the process it's more efficient it's more functional and I think it's certainly this great example right here in this part of the litigation process, that when it comes into force to see how we might still have to improve it and how it's going to work and whether it's going to take some more work and then try to think about some kind of maybe broader application. I am now not going to list everything that brings up this review example we have already heard, I think that just in this very one we want to speed up, in which we want to take a unique practice, a unique position, especially on the legal issue that this is something that we need far before and far before we need to bring it, because we should save a lot of time and, of course, the most important thing we bring, increase legal certainty in this country, especially for litigation, when we talk about procedures in front of commercial courts. Here I thank you very much and, of course, the HNS Club will support these changes in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138621	Representative Goran Aleksic has applied for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138622	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and I will propose some additions between the two readings, some changes, and one of the changes will certainly concern what I have already said in the replica of the minister, and as regards the revision of the claim. I understand that before the disputes lasted a little longer, they stalled, that because it was possible to care to deliver new evidence and so forth, so I will not go with the intensities to prescribe it for all procedures rather than for one specific type of procedure, where there is a whole series of similar cases, and then it is necessary to solve it in such cases in the best possible way. I have to turn to the Franak case again, where simply in a collective dispute we have a final verdict that is somehow divided into two parts. The first part of the powerful verdict was passed in 2014, and the second part of 2018 and now the people who sued on the basis of the first part of that powerful verdict were sued only for overpaid interest. And now this process is going, going, going, going in 2018, the process didn't end at the first degree, and let's say that even at the second degree, it doesn't matter, it's not over, and now it's the situation that the Supreme Court ruled that the currency clause was corrupt. And now, according to the current CAP, since the process is already fat let's say at the end in some way, the prosecutor cannot add a request to establish an unfair currency clause and cannot increase his claim for the amount of the exchange rate. In such situations where such a large court dispute is being conducted, where some facts are subsequently determined, it would be good to prescribe that, even after the preparatory hearing, it is allowed to change the essential foundations of the claim. And the one in the legal sense and the one in terms of the payment request. We know that now it is not possible to modify the claim in a way that it increases, but in a situation like this it would be justified because if we don't do so, unless we allow it, then another complaint must be filed. Why burden both the prosecutor and the court with one more lawsuit and then expect it to be merged and maybe not because there's no obligation to merge? So maybe we could regulate it in another way, maybe we could regulate that such a process has to be joined into one process when another lawsuit is filed, that then these two processes have to be connected because maybe it would be a good way, I don't know, that it doesn't have to change that first lawsuit, but that in such a case, it has to be connected necessarily because the courts don't have to do it, they can still drive on two tracks until they've solved both issues. Well, in that sense, I'm going to suggest some additions and changes to this proposal between the two readings. I will also suggest, I have already said, that the review procedure takes effect, the provision of the review dispute, takes effect at the same time as the law because there is no reason to wait and some problems that are ongoing and which are not resolved and for the sake of legal certainty of the citizens would be very good for them to be resolved as soon as possible. Here I am, waiting for the Supreme Court's decision on bank audits, after which we will have a completely clean situation in the Franak case, we will have settled all the general legal issues but we will not have resolved individual legal issues from private disputes, here we have no solution now, I said the question of how payment will be determined in the Franak case, we have no resolved question whether these contracts are harmful or not harmful, so these are some legal questions that need to be given an urgent answer, and therefore the provisions on the review dispute should take effect as soon as possible and that we can resolve it then as soon as possible and that we have the knowledge of how further with our actions, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138623	A representative of Sinisha Varga reported for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I am very interested in following your presentation on the Swiss issue and everything related to court disputes, one thing that must always be mentioned in the draft legislative proposals, and in this proposal, and for your amendments and amendments, which you will submit between the two readings, by the cost side of the state budget. I'm wondering if you're predicting any costs in the matter or whether it's all on the cost side of the opposing parties in the court dispute. Namely, if this isn't from the pocket, it's not in the pocket for the Republic of Croatia and it's useful for the citizens, I don't see the government's resistance to passing a law like this, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138625	Replicate response, MP Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138626	Thank you, dear colleague Varga. It's going to be less money in the budget, it's going to be faster so there's going to be less court costs and there's going to be less money in the budget, but there's not going to be any cost to the state in terms of cost, because if these things go the way I suggest, then it's going to go faster and there's going to be less costs for both sides, both for the bank and for the citizen and for everything in the full court dispute. So that's all it is, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138627	Pedja Grbin's representative is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138628	Dear fellow Alexic, I listened to your debate and in principle I agree with what you said that the provisions of article 107, which introduces the visional dispute should come into force as soon as possible, but you are wrong in the sense that that is enough, is not enough. In fact, you will see at the beginning of the transitional and final provisions of the law, Article 1 of these provisions states which provisions of the law apply to the proceedings under way and you will see that Article 107 is not listed among them. Therefore, the provisions of Article 107 relating to the review dispute do not apply to ongoing procedures. In view of the fact that these cases relating to the Swiss franc or to the currency clause, to a variable interest rate, etc., in a large part in the course of the present case, such a provision of the law could not apply to them, which is why we also suggested on the Committee that Article 107 applies to the procedures under way, but I will do so more in an individual, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138629	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138630	I thank you, thank you, thank you, colleague Grbin for the replica, I agree with you, I did not, I simply missed seeing it and I agree with you, and that part I support, so it must be applied to the proceedings in progress and there is no reason not to apply it because there are certain legal issues in progress that need to be resolved, there is no reason not to apply it to such proceedings at all. This will not result in legal uncertainty, however, because something will be resolved and people will know how to proceed in similar procedures, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138631	Pedja Grbin's representative came forward for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138632	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, For all of us who have practiced law in practice, for all of us who have represented our parties as lawyers before the court, especially for those of us who are in litigation, it is clear that the Law on the litigation of the spine of our judicial system is in the section relating to civil trial. And that is why whenever a law on litigation is discussed, it is necessary to approach the debate with due attention. What is particularly important, and I would say somewhat, and particularly interesting that the adoption of the Law on Prosecution until now has always led to an extraordinary consensus among MPs in the Croatian Parliament from whatever political options they came from, and my colleague Milenić has surprised me several years ago while the minister was quite surprised by the fact that by then in Croatia, everyone, all amendments to the law on litigation procedure have been adopted unanimously. Why am I saying this, because I want this to happen also with this amendment and the addition of the Law on Procedural Procedure, and that's why we're on the board, and we're going to do our best today during the debate between the two readings and when the law comes to another reading and I hope that it will be as soon as possible, because these changes that we have ahead of us are in a lot of good shape. I hope we can reach that consensus. For this reason, I will begin this debate with what is in this proposal to amend the Law on Procedural Procedure well, and all the provisions relating to the issue of delivery are good. I absolutely support the proposals proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I had only one doubt which the Honorable State Secretary removed at the committee session, and this doubt concerned whether material and technical conditions were met for the use of electronic delivery in the form in which it was proposed by these amendments to the law. The moment we're guaranteed, when we're confirmed that the preparations are under way, that the funds are secured, I think we should all support that. There are good provisions relating to the cost of the procedure. The way in which it is foreseen that the cost will apply to the final claim made, we all know that sometimes the claim cannot be specified until the execution of the art, for example by the experts of the economic profession, which will specifically calculate the amount sought in the dispute, etc., know that it cannot be calculated by then, will support this way in accordance with the final claim made. Just as they will support being taken in terms of success, the percentage of the prosecutor's and the defendant's successes and that in the case of the prosecutor's success, it is calculated in proportion to this ratio. Of course, when the defendant succeeds in the dispute, then it is completely different and always much easier because then the prosecutor is obliged to cause all the costs except, of course, those to which the defendants have come. However, litigation is not and must not be the only question of speed. The litigation process must also be a matter of the quality of the decision to be taken by it. That's why I'm going to talk about what's wrong with this bill. The first possibility of a court being that in the case, it seems to me to be Article 299a. which would be added to this law that in the case of a late delivery, the same may be rejected. I think it's wrong and I think it should be settled through costs in a way that if the subsequent delivery of these, that submission was caused by the cost of the other party, the court or so, that the person who was due to make up for that cost because I think that rejection could also lead to issues of constitutionality of that provision. Here, let's say, I disagree with my colleague Miljanic because he believes that procedural discipline requires that kind of rejection, but that is something that I will ask you to consider and, of course, it cannot in itself affect the final decision on the law, because it is only one detail. However, what can affect the final decision is the question of how the revision is arranged or how the view dispute is arranged. I believe that the revision is as proposed by this law, and arranged essentially with the aim of protecting the interests of the Supreme Court. Therefore, the revision as it is here has been proposed in a way that would allow the Supreme Court to reduce the number of cases, and that is not good. Dear colleagues and colleagues should not thus be leaders, if, at the Constitutional Court, a pardon in the Supreme Court, there is a backlog in solving civil cases, then we need to find a way to allow them to have this case, to solve this backlog, rather than restrict citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia the possibility of access to the Supreme Court. The ministry's proposal itself, the audits by permission is excellent, I must say it clearly here, it is a decisive proposal, for example something that exists in many others and even in international courts, for example the European Court of Human Rights cannot just turn to it, there is a doorkeeper who is the judge of an individual who decides whether a complaint is allowed so that it can come before the council which will then be quantified and no one questions it. However, what we are questioning is a list of those situations in which the revision is allowed under the law, a colleague of Milenic also spoke on the board about a very, very plastic example. Individual labour dispute has an automatic legal right to review, however, a collective labour dispute arising for example from bankruptcy do not have the legal right to audit but must ask the Supreme Court for permission to address it with an audit. And only if the Supreme Court allows that bankruptcy to come to an audit even though, for example, in Ulanik if there is a bankruptcy that means losing jobs for hundreds and thousands of employees, I think it is wrong and it should be considered. Another example is something that, by law, should be allowed for review is the question of refuting the decisions of arbitration courts. So in certain legal situations you can refute the decisions of arbitration courts, and the decisions of arbitration courts, as we know, can be difficult a few dozen, hundreds or billions and more kunas, but here you have no automatic right to review, and for example, when correcting information you have. So I think that the part relating to where the audit is allowed under the law should be resolved differently and then this would be absolutely acceptable. For example, the same thing that I think you're a little out of line here, because you really don't need a council of five Supreme Court judges to make a decision. I purposely mentioned the European Court of Human Rights. There the permit of the complaint, i.e. the permission to refer to the court, is decided by an individual judge. I don't see why the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia should have a board of five judges in charge of that. The next problem of the view dispute. Already, colleagues have talked about it, counterpart Miljanic talked about the problem of the view dispute, where one object is extracted from the hat, the other depends on the decision on the case, is not represented in the case that it should be reached. My thinking is that we may need to take a step further from the review dispute and look at what the EU's operating agreement provides for Article 267 and that is to address the previous issue of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg on the interpretation of EU law. Therefore, any court, in any EU Member State, may at any time address the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg with a previous question. Let's see if we can build something similar to that in the Croatian legal order. This does not lead to the need for an open dispute, however, but allows, in addition to the review dispute, to be made possible under certain conditions by Croatian courts, where there is a question of unresolved court practice, for example, there must not be a mass dispute, 10 or 11 cases, but important, difficult, significant for citizens, where, for example, the County Court in Zagreb and the County Court in Pula have tried differently. Why would such a situation not allow the court to address the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia with a preliminary question, which would resolve inconsistencies in the application of case-law in concrete cases? It's something I'd like you to think about. I know it's potentially a big job for the Supreme Court, but in the long run, we're going to get even court practice and long-term, we're going to get a reduction in the number of cases at the Supreme Court, because in such situations, where the Supreme Court has already given a preliminary opinion. We are aware of our colleagues and colleagues, not only that there will be no need, but it will not be acceptable to allow audits, and it will then be very easy to argue later on for proceedings before the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. Time doesn't allow me to continue, and there's more to say. For the last 10 seconds only, Article 107 shall enter into force before 1 September, as soon as possible, the other provisions... It shall enter into force on 1 September and shall apply to proceedings pending. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138633	Thank you. Representative Stephen Curaj, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it's absolutely clear to all of us that we can agree on a large part of this bill, you mentioned the question of the quality of the decisions, not the speed, and that would absolutely agree with you. I may have even missed my colleague, because she has now mentioned to me, because it is not just a question within the same court, two different judges make different decisions, but the same judge makes different decisions in a similar case. So that quality is important. But when we talk about reducing the case at the Supreme Court, I just think that the reduction of the Supreme Court case will raise quality, here I personally have an example as a responsible person I lost a previous dispute with my predecessors and I was legally obliged, the society had to pay, almost 800 thousand kuna, compensation from demands. We've put in an audit, we've been waiting for over three years, and now imagine the situation when... A private person, so we can get that audit, get back to the re-determination, and we can go with the return suit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when's your money coming? Well, that money's been spent for three years, and we've been waiting for who knows how long.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138635	Thank you for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138636	Dear colleague, I hope it wasn't a compensation for immaterial damage due to the example of bodily injury, because in that case, nor if you get an audit, you won't be able to ask back what you paid for, check it out. However, when we talk about the number of cases, he would point to one of the illogicalities that she came up with, which is the High Criminal Court. So we have a case in the Supreme Court, which concerns civil trial, and at the same time, at the Supreme Court, we have a reduction of pressure and a reduction of the backlog in criminal trials. How did we react to these two situations? By establishing a new court for the criminal construction of the trial, the High Criminal Court, where Mr Turudic will be headed, on the soul of whoever put him up, and on the other hand in civil trial instead of considering whether it might be more appropriate to establish the High Civilian, rather than the High Criminal Court, we are going with a restriction on the right to review. So, different approaches for situations that should be reversed if I'm asked to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138637	Thank you. Representative Marija Jelkovac responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138638	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, dear colleague Grbin, here I am, as well as my colleague Milenić, having a conflicting opinion of you regarding these delays in submissions. I think that if we want an effective procedure, we have to have rules of conduct and we just all have to stick to it. Because otherwise, if we can keep someone behind the bandages running into a certain space, we're creating the possibility that this procedure is constantly a little stretch, a little bit here for this much, a little for so many days, and then we get to the point that the procedures aren't effective. It is also prescribed in Article 299 that parties may, for exceptional reasons, be called upon if the delay is without their guilt, that the Court take that into account and that I consider it sufficient. So if there are reasonable reasons, the court will take that into account and allow the examination of such a submission that was off-limits, but I think we all have to follow certain deadlines as a rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138639	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138640	The article you quoted, I think it's an article. 290 A paragraph 4. If I'm not mistaken, it's actually completely unnecessary, because it already exists in the Law on Procedural Procedure and it's called a return to the previous situation. So, if there has been a missing deadline, because of something that is not the fault of a person who has missed the deadline and if, therefore, the person has lost a specific right, in this case it is the right to respect the submission, then there are provisions on the return to the previous situation and this provision of the law is unnecessary and, in my opinion, it should be deleted. However, this is about a specific situation where the court called on the other party who did not submit or made certain allegations that they were being shown. So we have in law worked out at which point proposals can be submitted for new evidence and the determination of new facts and it is settled. This is where we add the instrument of submission. So the submission is just an indication, the submission is just my vision and you here say that if we don't give our vision within a certain time, you won't respect it, I think it's wrong, and that's why it can't be difficult to process, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138641	Thank you. Representative Grbin, please stick to the time. Representative Goran Aleksic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138642	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Grbin, first of all I agree with what you have said for the last 10 seconds absolutely, means Article 107 should be applied from the date of entry into force of the law and should be applied to the proceedings in progress, there is no reason not to prescribe it, it is not retroactive in fact, it is present, there is no retroactivity, it is the present time. And secondly, I'd like to ask you what you think about what I was saying about the limitation of claims relating to the zero contractual provisions, should we consider it a little bit differently, of course we can't give someone 50 years ago who had some worthless money, that would be total legal uncertainty, but in some modern time we live in, if we don't let a man get his money based on unfair contractual provisions, then we have one injustice at work, what do you think of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138643	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll start with the first, so my proposal is yes, and I'm sorry that we haven't passed this law this week, I think it would be a blessing if we had finished our first reading already today, my proposal is next, so as soon as possible to organise a second reading, to define in transitional and final provisions that Article 107. The FPI or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the GPP shall enter into force within 8 days of the date of entry into force of the law, so that the other provisions of the law enter into force on 1 September as provided for in that our courts may be prepared for application and shall be presumed to apply to proceedings pending. I think we can reach a consensus on this, and that would be beneficial. I will try in this second which is not yet the subject of this debate, therefore you can always call on nothing, therefore nothing in itself as such is outdated, if anything was harmful and if there is a legal interest for it, you can ask to establish at any time the other thing right to return to what happened so, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138645	Thank you. Time's up, Agent Grbin, time's up. Minister Bosnjakovic will address the final word on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138646	Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I want to thank you for this quality debate and all these wishes, in fact, that the law is actually giving us the support that we have proposed amendments and we have guessed, and we are going to take all these proposals that you have made, all these criticisms that you have made, we are going to consider between the two readings, and in any case, I think that here, after the debate, maybe there are no obstacles to the law being put into effect immediately, with the delayed action of certain provisions that actually apply to the infrastructure itself, the preparation of courts and all that. These issues are also open, related to these provisions on the view dispute to be applied in ongoing procedures, which means the retroactive action of laws that we should specifically explain, which we will, in any case, answer, see what our constitutional and legal position is. As far as the audit itself is concerned, here there have been several discussions of whether 5 judges, whether fewer judges, were our urgency being that the concept of review is changing, means the Supreme Court allows or does not allow it to be actually exposed to one audience of 5 judges in order not to make it easy to let it happen than to have one wider circle of people look at it, but we will also consider bringing it down to possibly 3 judges, it is not a closed story, we can certainly see it. So here's all these suggestions we're going to discuss, we're going to see all this for another reading, and I'd very much like to reach a consensus because the CAP is extremely important and it will reflect strongly on the speed of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138647	Pedja Grbin's representative is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138648	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, so as far as this 5 judges are concerned in the Supreme Court, I must also point out that it is not usual for a particular court in the same or council with the same number of judges to decide on the authorisation of the application and the measure of the application, so if 5 judges decide on the content of the audit, then it would be logical for a smaller council to decide on its permission. And now this second, to make things a little easier for you as far as proceedings are concerned. The CAP is a procedural law and there is a certain principle that procedural laws, when they enter into force, apply to procedures under way unless otherwise specified by that law. So without an explanation of retroactiveness, we can just say this law comes into force immediately and it applies, so the exception is actually not to apply certain provisions and we think we're at least making it easier to work, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138649	It's running out of time, thank you. Minister Bosnjakovic, please, will you answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138650	This is a question that we will analyse whether 5, whether the same council decides on a permit then again on the measure of things according to a possible audit, we will analyse it, and we will see what our situation is and this is certainly the entry into objects that are ongoing is in a certain way retroactiveness and we will certainly see it before the second reading, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138651	Representative Aleksic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138652	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister Bosnjakvoiæ, it's not a topic, but I would ask you anyway, so please answer me, and I also asked my fellow coat of arms, he didn't have time to answer me. EU law is very clear, EU law says if unfair contractual provisions are established, the consumer has the right to complete restitution. This stems from all EU court rulings so far adopted, in response to previous issues. Our Supreme Court has made a decision on the collective verdict it has made, it is excellent and it gives us the right to be out of date, that's great. However, a private procedure may arise, where the same thing happens, where it is not collective, it is found that something is unfair, but in antiquity, after 10 years of age, do you think that the issue of an old-fashioned claim relating to harmful contractual provisions should be reconsidered and regulated in a different way, not in general, but in special situations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138653	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138654	Obsolete claims are regulated by the Law on Mandatory Relations and this is not the subject of this Act. However, through their decisions, the Supreme Court can, in fact, interpret all other courts in a certain way, the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, the provisions of the Law on Obsolescence. So we'll see that in the future, what position the Supreme Court will be in, possibly in these situations as you said. At this point, I wouldn't take my stand because it's a matter of principle of court.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138655	Representative Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138656	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. In the transitional, final provisions, the deadline of 1.9 is stated which I believe, although we would all like to do so tomorrow, is an appropriate deadline, if not for some cases that I'm about to ask you now, perhaps early. In fact, as much as we'd like this to come into effect as possible, we need to think about the observation, the possibility of law enforcement. It states here that the law will not need additional funding, however, I would certainly like to hear what is planned in the education of the judges themselves, i.e. in the way of implementation. Of course we've made a framework here, but we're giving more power to judges, but they have to be aware, if we had a situation that one and the same judge has two different positions on the same issue, within one judge two different judges, we need to ensure that this application of this law, especially these innovations that we've introduced, and I'm wondering if there will be a certain period, whether it will be enough to get judges used to this kind of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138657	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138658	It is precisely the subject of a review dispute, which actually gives the Supreme Court the power that in a number of cases, which are more in courts, to give a legal position, will lead to the unification of judicial practice and in fact this is the consequence of a uniform view of judges in concrete cases, that is one thing. Secondly, we have a judicial academy within which we have workshops and about current legal issues, and we will practice it further and more strongly, precisely on those current issues that are open, so that we can pass on these positions to judges and not come to the situation, that, in the same court, especially at the level of different courts in the Republic of Croatia, we have different rulings on the same issues. We have the funds secured both for the judicial academy and for the Supreme Court's functioning, so we will insist on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138659	Thank you. This concludes the debate, it will be voted when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138660	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, First Reading, P.Z. Number 620. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on a litigation procedure is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 81 votes for and 40 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138661	The following point is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector, first reading, P.Z. No. 621 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Zrinasic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138662	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The law on the internal control system in the public sector has been laid down by the legislative framework in the Republic of Croatia and is in line with the best European international practice in the area of the development of internal control and internal audit systems, as part of the internal control system. The purpose of the internal control system is to improve governance in order to achieve general objectives, such as the implementation of operations in a proper, ethical, economic, effective and effective manner, then, compliance with the laws and other regulations of plans, programmes and procedures, the protection of funds from losses caused by unwarranted spending and use and protection against other forms of irregularities, the strengthening of responsibility for the successful achievement of business objectives, reliability and the comprehensiveness of financial and other reports. In most cases, the law has achieved the original objectives, which relate to better management of budgetary resources, more efficient and internal audit, strengthening relations between related institutions within the public sector, i.e. strengthening preventive controls in the public sector. However, the area related to irregularities is not precisely regulated and certain difficulties arise in the peaches in the application of certain provisions of the law itself. Therefore, the next recommendation of the State Audit Office, this draft draft law proposal, aims to improve the area of irregularities, to develop certain provisions of the law, which have shown shortcomings in practice. In particular, in its audit report, the State Office dedicated the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 to the area of irregularities and the taking of measures against irregularities. In that report, the State Audit Office proposes that in the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector, infringement provisions should be prescribed for the failure to report irregularities to the establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance in charge of budgetary supervision, which shall be carried out in part and on the basis of the report on irregularities. Furthermore, in the same report, the State Audit Office has ordered the adoption of an appropriate Regulation laying down criteria for the appointment of a person for irregularities, obligations and the manner of handling of a person for irregularities and the manner and time limits for reporting irregularities. It is clear from the above mentioned report of the State Office for Auditing, that out of 624 applicants, the submission of the report on irregularities, the annual report for 2016, the establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance, was responsible for budgetary supervision, provided by 456 or around 73%, whereas for the annual report relating to 2017, 428 of the total of 623 obligors or around 67%. However, the applicable Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector does not provide a sufficiently clear provision regarding the applicants and the appointment of persons for irregularities to which it is not possible to adopt a new Regulation laying down criteria for the appointment of a person for irregularities, then the obligation and manner of handling of a person for irregularities, and the way in which the deadlines... on irregularities and as mentioned by the State Audit Office and listed in the pre-mentioned report and requested. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore possible to implement those tasks and recommendations of the State Audit Office through the amendments and additions to the applicable Internal Control System Act in the public sector and subsequently from the adoption of the relevant Regulation. These amendments and additions to the applicable law make it clearer to define the appointment of persons for irregularities and the concept of irregularities, the persons for irregularities are named at the level of ministries and other state bodies, the level of division, and at the level of units of local, regional (regional) self-government. More specifically, the role of persons for irregularities is defined. Irregular persons will receive reports of irregularities from employees, citizens or anonymous applicants, i.e. where irregularities have not been identified during the competent conduct of state institutions. An annual combined report on irregularities will be assessed on the basis of the applications received and proposed how they are handled. The deadlines for the delivery of the report of irregularities are also prescribed after the infringement provision and the adoption of a regulation which will be detailed in the area related to irregularities. The very application of the draft bill expects a better understanding of the area related to irregularities and of the quality and efficiency of the action against irregularities both from law holders and from the establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance in charge of budgetary supervision. It is also expected to improve the flow of information on reported irregularities and to carry out budgetary surveillance on the basis of the report on irregularities as there should be a significant reduction in the number of outstanding reports of the establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance in charge of budgetary supervision. As mentioned under this law, an appropriate regulation will be adopted which will prescribe the obligations and the way in which the irregularities reported, or detected, are followed by the criteria of the content of the decision to appoint a person for irregularity, and the manner in which the reporting deadlines for irregularities in the management of the institution's assets. In addition to those amendments, certain provisions of the applicable law have been amended and which have shown shortcomings in practice, i.e. implementation obligations are in line with the new Fiscal Responsibility Act, amendments have been made to which the deadline for obtaining the title of the authorised internal auditor is related to the date of the start of education and not to the date of deployment at the workplace as currently prescribed by the law. Why? In fact, the practice so far has shown that individual persons deployed to the internal auditor’s post must wait up to a year for the start of education to acquire the appointment of an authorised internal auditor for the public sector and, as I said, the current law stipulates that professional authorisation must be acquired within one year from the date of deployment in the workplace. These amendments shall put all potential authorised internal auditors in an equal position. In particular, the responsible person of the institution should ensure the management of the most significant risks that may affect the achievement of the objectives set out in strategic and other plans and the provision of the obligation to adopt a separate risk management strategy is deleted because risk management is necessary to be an integral part of the implementation of strategic and other planning documents. A provision has been deleted laying down that the Finance Minister rules the conditions and means of recognising foreign professional qualifications for internal audits since the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia since 3 January of this year has left out the profession of authorised internal auditor in the public sector. Furthermore, the deadline for the implementation of the internal audit recommendations may be extended only once as it has been so far but no longer within the time limit that has been from 6 months but depending on the time really needed for the implementation of the recommendation and the responsible person, the institution shall determine that time limit. It is further established that the Ministry of Finance prepares, the finance minister submits for the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's annual report on the system of internal controls in the public sector. And the final compliance of the provisions is related to the production of sublegal acts in accordance with the provisions of this draft bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138663	Representative Peric, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138664	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. So here's the explanation that you said the importance of the internal control system and how much, in fact, individual entities didn't deliver reports that then make it very difficult to actually monitor and control and effectively use funds that are actually public funds, and that's what the state's audit through its reports is very nice, multiple times proved and proved that this is a major flaw. And that's why I think the improvements in this law will mean a lot to make better decisions and manage resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138665	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138666	Thank you, Madam Representative, and thank you for your comment which is indeed the essence of this and the intensity of the State Audit Office's findings that these processes that are within the internal control system where the internal audit is involved, where the State Audit Office is also involved and the corresponding declaration of fiscal responsibility as three different sources that form a quality database based on which, when the internal composition of finance is collected, an appropriate report is analysed and produced which shows both progress and in one part if I would only mention from our review that we received from internal auditors, budgetary users, effects in terms of savings, etc. or an increase in revenue or a reduction in expenditure and other relevant financial effects in 2015 were 51.4 million and in 2017, as much as 135 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138667	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. Representative Dragica Vranjš, the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138668	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance. So we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Internal Control System in the Public Sector. When this law first appeared, and all the obligations that it entails, there may have been a slight panic, there was no knowing how to do certain things, some regulations were unclear. As I recall they were also valid for public institutions and kindergartens and it was difficult to expect now from a school principal who had previously worked as an aunt in kindergarten, she had simply had internal control as some kind of bauk and then, in 2014, through our association even though we were not bonds that I normally ran in my field we organized education for so-called. FMC for internal management and public sector control. And I can say that there's a lot of things we've done in one conversation with people that we've simplified because in the end they've all realized that it's very important to list irregularities, that it's not a problem if we see any irregularities, write down, remove but it's a problem if we're not aware that irregularities exist, if we're not doing anything about contracts, accounts, that they don't have a binding content, that any of this doesn't work, and that's why it's very important to educate the public sector on this matter, so maybe a little,... concerns units of local self-government and all of these other, legal bodies in the public sector, legal persons in the public sector, whether we may need more money to implement this law in terms of education and bringing this whole thing closer together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ Club will, of course, support this law because it is working to improve and improve all of these actions taken against irregularities. And it is very important that bonds and appointments are now clearly defined, however, that these irregularities that should have been observed for many years to come together, to be made public and public, to take some other actions in order to prevent them because it has been a long time to adapt. And we have had time to see all the shortcomings in practice so that, as for the appointment of a person for irregularities and who appoints and how the profession of a person should be regulated means to detect irregularities. And we also have the abolition of formal approval obligations to send strategic and annual internal audit plans and the Ministry of Finance by electronic means because it is by itself an obligation, not to have prior approval. So all that the government's representative has already said not to repeat myself, so the HDZ Club will support but I certainly call for further education and further understanding of all the obligations arising from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138669	Representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić should speak on behalf of the representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA, he is not there and thus loses his right to debate. Representative Stjepan Curaj will speak on behalf of the HNS representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138670	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So, I think this is very clear, I just have a few questions about the article, but I'm actually going to actually do that later, but I'd just like to start by commenting actually on the meaning of this. So we all know that internal control or audit, even in every company, so when we talk about a controller is extremely important not as a body or person or an office of repression, but as a body of control, i.e. correcting potential errors, while they are still possible with the aim of just as the state audit has stated here certainly by obtaining maximum truth, quality and reliable work reports. So we're talking about one of the most financial aspects. But, of course, that is what it wants to achieve to do business in a proper, ethical, economical, effective, effective way, so all that efficiency, everything that needs to be both state and public administration absolutely. Of course, they must monitor compliance and business with laws and warn that something is important and that is now the most important, to warn that something, some damage caused by bad governance. And that's where we actually came to the most important part, where certain leaders of certain public bodies, state bodies, however, by some decisions it's always the same attitude, it doesn't matter, the wrong business decision or the wrong decision or the illegal one or whatever lawsuit, the loss, the state will pay. It can't do that, it can't do that. I'm not saying that's why no one may have warned about it, but we have to have a body that will warn them, which will knowingly do their job, which corresponds with their signature. So this isn't, like, a joke. Someone needs to sign, co-sign, and agree that everything is done in accordance with the law and that all reports are in accordance with the law. And what's important and now we're going to go into that second element, which is now what's always hard to estimate, whether a certain business decision has had any harmful or financial losses that can't always be proven in the first month or six months or years, or especially if some of the procedures in connection with that are in place. Now it's a little bit more awkward to estimate because that's how certain art is done, etc., so maybe that's not how it would be easy to do it. But the point, the goal of all internal control, when we talk about the public sector and I think it's in the private sectors below normal, is that we have as high-quality legal decisions as possible and as efficient as possible economic decisions. But these here are how many of the bonds of 624, 456 of them have been delivered, etc., so we need to increase delivery, etc., so we need to increase this discipline a little bit, I agree. And now we get to that person for irregularities. For me, the specific question of Article 11 relates to Article 43, which is the obligation of persons to report irregularities, so what is their obligation, to prevent the risk of irregularities, measures taken, etc., to report irregularities from employees, citizens or anonymous applicants, or where irregularities are not identified in the course of the competent conduct of state institutions. Now, is this correspondence with the law that we brought here about popular whistles, is that the same person, or is this some other person? Because according to this, I think this is another person and it intertwines with one another. We don't know this law now in a previous session, we brought back half a year where it was just an obligation for every company that has 50 and more employees, etc. and all mandatory public legal authorities shall bring in a person for registration, i.e. that if a collective is agreed, one third of the collectives or employees must agree on that person where they will report certain irregularities, now the same thing here... And here we are talking about internal control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now I also consider here that in Article 11, paragraph 2 says that it prepares an annual pooled report on irregularities and then states later that responsible persons, institutions are obliged to submit an annual report for the previous year to that person and now it's a little confused here, who does that at the end of the report. If I have understood correctly, the responsible persons of the institutions and the competent authorities of the Ministry and other bodies at the level of the division of the organisational classification and competence of the units of local, regional (regional) self-government shall be obliged to submit an annual report of irregularities to the competent authority by 28 February of the current year. This preparation is united and then later said that they are obliged to submit a joint report of the same person responsible until 31 March, to the competent authority... A unit at the Ministry of Finance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If I understand this procedure correctly. The responsible person delivers a report of irregularities to the person for irregularity, she collects it all and then returns it back to them and then they unify it again. I believe I've got something wrong here so maybe it's not listed here but I don't understand if the responsible people are doing reports and they're just uniting and then they bring it back and then they're uniting it... I mean, I don't really have a job that has the essentials, so I'm not based on the meaning of a person's work to report irregularities, and then it could just as easily remove it from that part if he doesn't control it, it doesn't say here that he has an obligation to control, approve or anything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It just says that it unites, unites means a bunch on a bunch of malts. Preparation of the annual pooled report on irregularities, so yes, and then it is said that the responsible persons are competent to deliver it... The leader, yes, means they deliver the report to him and he prepares them, not us, he prepares them unitedly and they deliver them to him individually, each individually. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, okay, here I'd just like to ask you to go through that later on just because we're not clear. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of course, this issue regarding the second Law on Reporters of Irregularity is also to be referred to whether these companies must now have two persons, because they had to go into the consent of employees and here we now have some internal control, whether irregularities are irregularities, whether this applies only to financial irregularities and it is not settled here, all the rest has been solved, whether we are in conflict with that previous law. Here's what we would normally, absolutely, support. The HNS club will, of course, support, we think we need more control, we need more efficiency, we need more better solutions, more responsibility. So it doesn't matter, it's not my money, it's not my money, it's the state, it's the state, it's the endless amount of money, so I don't care what happens to my decisions, whether it's good or not, if I deliver the report, I won't, so we're all state. We're not all states, we all answer to citizens, each and every single person, every responsible person. The fact that the audit is carried out by a state body over another state body has absolutely nothing to do with it. And that doesn't mean it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter how each kuna of taxpayers and citizens is spent. And that's why this is important, and that's why it needs to be taken seriously. And I know, I was one of those responsible people in the public body and I know how my colleagues and everything and how my predecessors looked at it that they didn't care at all. And that's not the way. And we just need to bring it down to the level that they have to have people who will constantly warn them that they need to be cared and that they have to work legally. Not because someone has been working against the law, underprivilegedly, and with the aim of earning some profit, it's criminal acts, it's pure negligence and it doesn't care. They don't feel like it. It can't be, it can't be an object at all that someone... Here, I don't think I repeat all these, expectations from the law why and how, I'm just interested in these two questions specifically how it was solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course the club of the HNS once again I say it will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138671	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break until 12:00, and we'll continue to deliver free views on behalf of the club at 12 o'clock. Thank you. ANNIGHT IN 11.28 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-12-0.u138672	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Internal Control System Act in the public sector, first reading, P.Z. Number 621. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 109 for, 10 abstentions and 4 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
