ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144260	9.30, we start work. Today we have as the first item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Japan on the removal of double taxation of income taxes, and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance of tax payments, second reading, P.Z. No. 646. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. This is a proposal for Law 646. Art. 207. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws on which international contracts are confirmed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are laid down as a rule in a single reading. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate, and the debate was carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. With us is Assistant Minister, State Secretary, Pardon, Ministry of Finance, Mr Zdravko Zrinašić, who will introduce us to this Final Bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144261	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman-in-Office of HS, respected MPs and MPs, as pointed out above, today is the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Japan on the elimination of double taxation by income taxes, and the prevention of tax evasion and tax avoidance. The Republic of Croatia is currently applying 63 Treatys on the avoidance of Double Taxation, a starting point for negotiations in the conclusion of double taxation contracts as well as in most countries of the world, are the own models that each country makes according to its own tax policy, based on the model of the Treaty on Economic Co-operation and Development, etc. UCD, and UN. In order to promote economic co-operation and deepen relations, a contract between the Republic of Zagreb and Japan was signed last October to remove double taxation of income taxes, and to prevent tax evasion and avoid tax evasion. The signing of the contract is necessary for a series of overall activities that the Republic of Croatia is taking to increase the degree of mutual economic cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Japan and the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian and Japanese sides in the future want to increase cooperation between the two countries and their shareholders. In this regard, I will only briefly present information concerning the trade between 2014 and 2014 in terms of exports and imports concerning the Republic of Macedonia and Japan. In 2014, we exported more to Japan for $21.6 million and our exports were 48.5, and we imported 26.9. As for 2015, exports were $51.5 million, we imported 29. In 2016 alone, we were in a minus or ratio of exports and imports, then we exported 35.6 and we imported $36 million, 2017. 55,3, imported 30,6, 2018. 64.6 million dollars we have imported $44.4 million and for the first three months of this year 37 million exports and 9.5 million imports. These are figures that are not significant in the structure of our exports, which is primarily goods and fish, in fish is tuna, and as far as our imports are concerned, these are cars and machines. This international agreement seeks to establish a clear and transparent framework for the business of Croatian and Japanese entrepreneurs who need to know with certainty which state has the right to tax their incomes from business and avoid the risks of double taxation. After the signing of the contract, a procedure prior to the submission of the contract to confirm or ratify the HS in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts was carried out in order to ensure that the provisions of the contract within the meaning of Article 1(1) of the Treaty are complied with. 141. The Constitution, and... We became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The procedure itself included consultation with the interested public from 14 February to 17 March this year, and a report on the same and published on e-consultation pages. As regards the content of the contract itself, the contract regulates the way to avoid double taxation of income and profits, allowing for a number of tax reliefs, then improving the conditions for increasing the mutual exchange of goods and services, which is an increase in both countries' overall economic activity. In this sense, the term resident is defined, avoiding double taxation of Croatian residents, and also preventing tax evasion. Taxation of profits from business is generally carried out by the State of residence of the company, except in cases of permanent establishment. Croatian construction and similar companies are allowed not to pay profit tax in Japan if these works last less than 12 months. It is possible for Croatian companies carrying out international transport of goods between the Republic of Croatia and Japan, paying taxes on profits achieved exclusively in the Republic of Croatia. The feet are coming down to the so-called. passive income, i.e. on existing rates prescribed by domestic laws, thus taxing dividends, interest rates and copyright fees at 5%. Furthermore, ways to avoid double taxation as well as equal treatment to contracting countries' companies in various tax situations are prescribed. The joint agreement process is an opportunity to directly negotiate on any emerging problem or threatening case of double taxation, the competent authorities of the Contracting States, which contributes to the acceleration of problem resolution. The Article of the Agreement on the Exchange of Notifications is also an effective means of combating tax avoidance. In view of the above, we believe that the contract will be encouraged in investments in the Republic of Croatia and in mutual cooperation, i.e. the exchange of goods and services, and will result in an increase in both countries' overall economic activity. The contract will produce effects in relation to the incomes made from 1 January next year compared to the year in which the law entered into force. On the date of entry into force of the law, the contract in question will not be in force, but it will enter into force 30 days after the date of receipt by diplomatic means, informing one of the Contracting States that its internal legal conditions for entering into force have been met. In conclusion, this contract does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144262	Four replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144263	Dear colleagues, Mr. Darling, just two short questions. Did it take so long to avoid double taxation of Croats coming here after the retirement of individual states, did it take us so long to do it? And secondly, is there in Croatia at all this electronic payment for taxpayers and databases that other countries have? We're still out there in the 19th century, like, just like with a disaster. Just those two questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144264	Here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144265	Thank you very much for asking the question. As for the contract if it took so long, I'll just remind you that otherwise we're all the contracts we could have passed on to us from the former Yugoslavia, and as far as the United States is concerned, this process has been going on since '93. A series of procedures are being led there, still from these last years, I hope that this one, on our part, is open in any case and the desire to do so and fulfill it. Here I have a series of other examples where we have either in procedures or in active stages and in other countries of the world with which the Republic of Croatia negotiates, let alone with the United States. And the second question was forgiveness, electronic, which means that the e-tax and data exchange system has been active for 3 years, and I believe that this has contributed significantly to the reduction of either rows or waste of time. this one in [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the meaning of taxpayers' business. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144266	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144267	Thank you very much. Secretary, when we finally sign a double taxation agreement with the United States, we are the only member of the EU that means double taxation with the United States so that our companies, in order to avoid that double taxation, are getting around, reporting through Hungary or through some other states, and we know that many of our businessmen, those who deal with business, are simply a huge problem, and there are plenty of them. So a brief question when does Croatia finally sign a double taxation agreement with the United States?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144268	Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144269	Here's a thank you for asking the honourable representative, as I've just said since '93. There is an initiative and some acts signed, unfortunately when signing a double taxation agreement always depends on the two sides. In this case, the procedure has really long, long run and as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we are ready to do so tomorrow, and as far as the United States is concerned, they have their priorities. Whether we're important to them in terms of the size of the market or something third, we can talk about it, but I agree with you that it's logical that as a friendly state we're going to need to do it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144270	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144271	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned in the introduction, therefore, that there are currently 63 contracts and that this is the continuation of what the finance minister signed in October 2018. The largest investor in the United States since the UK is Japan, I wonder if you have any information on how many Japanese companies currently operate in Croatia and what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is doing on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144272	Here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144273	Thank you very much. I have data on the total exchange of goods and economics, but as far as this particular company is concerned, I don't have that number. I hope that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, in that very sense, is also a task under the law, represents the Croatian interests that we want to expand to that area first and foremost because, as I did just before, I had a positive.../incomprehensible/... between imports and exports to Japan. So a country that is prone to us in terms of some products that we can offer in particular in this case fish or tuna. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144274	Mr. Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144275	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I only have one question regarding Article 6 of the Real estate income. Here you are saying in point 1. that income obtained from real estate by a resident of a Contracting State, including normal income from agriculture or forestry located in another Contracting State, can therefore be taxed in that other Contracting State. Was it possible to change the text of the contract so that the income made on real estate was bound to be charged in the country in which the property was located? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144276	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144277	Thank you very much. Therefore, I would draw attention to the meaning of this paragraph 1. applies in relation to the income that stems from the direct exploitation of the lease or lease and the use of real estate for each other, in any other way. So that's the part. And as you yourself know when a contract is signed, ratifys one and the other parliament and here in, the principle is always taken or left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144278	Thank you very much. I don't see any reports from the board, so we move on, we open up, we open up a debate. The first is Ms. Marijana Balic, who will speak for the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144279	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Zrinasic, respected colleagues and colleagues, is here before us the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Japan on the elimination of double taxation of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance of tax payments. What is good at the very beginning to say or to remind is the fact that both economic and legal double taxation reduces the attractiveness of investment and foreign direct investment. So agreements on avoidance of double taxation represent an important means of encouraging and protecting investors and create a stable business environment. The agreements also constitute a means of showing cooperation, as well as the exchange of information on taxpayers in order to prevent tax avoidance. Therefore, their meaning is significantly wider than the tax allocation itself. So this is about a very important contract that will lay the foundations of new cooperation and strengthen economic relations between the Republic of Macedonia and Japan. In this context, Japan certainly represents one of the model economies that can be followed, and since Croatia is an EU member, the possibilities for co-operation have certainly been increased. The intensity of the Republic of Croatia is in any case to be recognized, not only as a tourist country, but to develop its economy in various directions. And here, as we have heard, from State Secretary Zrinasic's public exposure, the Republic of Croatia is currently applying 63 double taxation contracts, and negotiations are under way with a number of other countries. In particular, the contracts in question make it easier to tax all types of income, as well as to improve the conditions for increasing mutual cooperation between goods and services, as well as to increase the degree of both countries' overall economic activity. For example, it means a defined concept of residents and avoids double taxation of Croatian residents, but also prevents the avoidance of income tax. Then it is possible for Croatian construction and similar companies not to pay profit tax in Japan if their works last less than 12 months. In taxing dividends, interest and copyright fees, a 5% tax rate has been established, it is prescribed that Croatian societies in Japan will have the same status and benefits as that state's society, and the joint agreement process is the possibility that any problem arises or threatening case of double taxation of the state will be negotiated directly, without the participation of diplomatic authorities, which will, of course, contribute to speeding up the problem. After the signing of the contract in question, signed on 19 October 2018, it must be confirmed by this House, by the adoption of the law before us today. In view of these solutions, we believe that the contract will certainly be an incentive for foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia and for the mutual exchange of goods and services and will therefore be influenced, as has already been said to increase both countries' overall economic activity. Following everything said, the HDZ Representatives' Club will certainly support the adoption of the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144280	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Sasa Djujic, he's gone. He's losing his right. Would you like to say something final? If not, I'll conclude the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144281	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between Croatia's Republic of Croatia and Japan on the elimination of double taxation of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and tax avoidance, second reading, P.Z. No. 646. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. And I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 106 votes for the adopted Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Macedonia and Japan on the elimination of double taxation of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance of tax payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144282	We move to the second item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, first reading, P.Z. No. 324.; Proposer is representative of Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. This is the representative of Mrs. Devereaux's office. Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, who will introduce us to the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144283	Thank you, Vice President HS. esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. After a year and three months of sending this law into the parliamentary procedure, here it is, finally and has come to the assembly. This amendment to the HBOR Act, i.e. the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is very short and clear. What I want, which is that all HBOR users are publicly published, so that this transparency in the work of HBOR is finally achieved. For the time being, the government has, of course, given a negative opinion on this bill which says that in the current work of the HBOR such, in fact their work is already transparent and can be obtained all information about the users of the credit on demand, which is not transparency because how do I know who I'm asking if he's got a loan, how can a citizen know what kind of credit Agrokor is, for example, what kind of credit Agrokor is. received, unless he knows that Agrokor has been granted credit, which would mean that citizens need to take all 160, 170 thousand companies and send an inquiry every month to all 170 thousand companies in order to even know how many loans they are or whether they are customers of HBOR's services. That's not transparency. Transparency is when all users are published and, at any time, every citizen has insight into HBOR users or into the transparency of their work. Yes, HBOR should transparently publish its users. I am also ordered by the Commissioner for Information and the High Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, and even the DORH is involved and the European Court of Justice and they all say that the HBOR should transparently publish its users, however, the HBOR still does not want to hear the option. There's been a lot going on since 2014. I would, in one medium, therefore all this nicely chronologically stated, so I would go straight for the public and colleagues who are not actually referred to this topic. In short, everything that happened in 2014 to the day of today's announcement of HBOR's loan. So, in 2014 for the term of office of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, a journalist, Simicevic, asked the HBOR to provide him with a list of all the companies that the HBOR granted loans from 2010-2013 and the amounts of these loans and agendas of the HBOR Supervisory Board. HBOR refused to give the journalist the requested information by referring to the banking secret and the protection of personal data. Information Commissioner Anamaria Musa, as a journalist spoke to her, has made a solution requiring the HBOR to provide the journalist with the requested information. The Commissioner explained what HBOR really is, and this is a special bank in 100% state ownership because its founding capital is financed by the state budget and its preferential loans that help develop and rebuild the Croatian economy are considered state incentives so citizens have the right to know who and what amounts these loans are granted to HBOR, however, did not settle with the Commissioner's decision, so he filed a complaint against the High Administrative Court. In the lawsuit, they found their loans to be a banking secret. However, the High Administrative Court rejected the HBOR's suit and accepted Commissioner Musa's argument and ordered the state bank to provide information under the Law on the right to access information to a journalist. At that time, however, the HBOR did not surrender, but filed a constitutional suit against the High Administrative Court's verdict. When the Constitutional Court rejected them, the HBOR administration reached out to the last legal means at its disposal, which is an extraordinary review of the judgment of power. In order for an extraordinary review of the judgment to take place, you should contact the DORH. HBOR enamed it, so he spoke to the DORH. The DORH, whose leader at the time was Dinko Cvitan, could have rejected the HBOR's request but did not do so but requested the Supreme Court to abolish the Supreme Court's judgment of the High Court of Justice. At the end of last year, the Supreme Court Council rejected the DORH's request and thus fell into the water and the final attempt by the HBOR to deny citizens the right to information on loans. I really don't remember ever going to an institution of public authority actually giving this much resistance and trying in this many possible legal ways to make it impossible for citizens to come to information that they actually have the right and gain under the law. Yes, b) it is important to note that the HBOR has referred 26 cases to the High Administrative Court against former Commissioner Anamaria Musa's solution so that the High Administrative Court will refuse to press charges or accept lawsuits and would not allow citizens to have the right to access information. So, as I have said in all possible legal ways, HBOR has taken advantage of none, so none of the institutions in this country, including the European Court of Justice, sided with the HBOR, but the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development still does not want to publicise its loans. That's why I'm putting it on, so I put it in the procedure, and now in the assembly we're discussing this law that's very simple, for a short time one article I want all HBOR users to be published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144284	The first line was requested by Mr. Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144285	Thank you. We really don't have anything to say here but that the request is so logical that it doesn't even have to activate cognitive activity to come to that and to develop some kind of strategy that we would try to challenge what our colleague is looking for. HBOR is 100% state-owned, all the bodies are obvious from,... from the administrative court to the Constitutional Court and the DORH that the data should be made publicly available and that it is simply a matter of public interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the only ones who believe that this information must not be publicly available, i.e. that access to information should be made more difficult is by the HBOR and the Government. I think this is actually a diagnosis of the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144286	Answer, sir... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144287	My colleague Vučetic, I absolutely agree, so I have already listed all the institutions in this country from the Commissioner to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and even the DORH is involved and the European Court of Justice, so they all say that HBOR must transparently publish the users of its services. However, here is the HBOR still believes that despite all the decisions made by the institutions, they are actually the only ones who are right. And unfortunately, you said it was a copy, actually it's a copy of a society where we are generally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144288	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144289	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Supreme Court has made a decision for the HBOR no longer to conceal which companies and which amounts are credited to. But then we have one problem not only that the government is scramblingly defending the list of companies and keeping secrets, but the Commissioner for Information has failed twice. twice the court has now made a decision to keep the information secret. You can see in what state we live in that the Commissioner for Information keeps the information, current, I am talking about the current while the previous one spoke publicly and represented that there must be information that companies and the amount of HBOR credits because it is public money. So Zoran Piculjan would have to resign at the moment, not today, but yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144290	Thank you. Mrs. Ninčević-Lesandric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144291	So, my colleague Bulj, I read in one media this morning this particular article, which states that the new commissioner has twice made a decision in favour of the HBOR, which, of course, the High Administrative Court has annulled. And that in which we live, I see and for this very reason, and I propose this law where, in fact, once a simple amendment of the article within the law, such as this and the absurd and which are already going on for years, they can prevent and what is the craziest of all is actually being spent again public money on all these court proceedings that occur in an attempt to prove that they, i.e. that the HBOR should not publish the services of their users, the names of their users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144292	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144293	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lesandric, you're looking for one thing, the government has answered the other. So the government says in any particular case information can be obtained. But that's not the purpose of this law of yours, that should be emphasized. The aim of the law is transparency but transparency in terms of competition in this country. There is no competition in this country. In this country, there is a clienteleist approach, in this country we don't know who gets privileged loans, in this country we don't know who gets all the incentives and that's the problem of Croatian society. And that's why our society doesn't go forward, because we don't have development because we see certain companies, companies that do well business with the county, municipalities of cities and states, companies that get generous incentives, and then of course these entrepreneurs still boast and then buy a roof at the church and so they're successful and our people go abroad, they don't have bread, they don't have a roof over their heads because they don't have a simple job. And I think it's the intensity of your law, so I will personally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144294	- Mrs. Crescent. Ninčević Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144295	I agree with my colleague, Žagar, in fact, I really think that precisely transparency in the work of HBOR would help to develop entrepreneurship because since we are only dealing with this subject and we are often in contact with entrepreneurs, what I know from the field, so from their stories it is that they rarely go to HBOR credits at all because they think that this is all set up, and for this very reason it should be transparent to allow them, or to encourage them ma crediting through HBOR, and not to think about that the HBOR institution that sets up their credits is already to access it at the time when they need it to further develop their business.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144296	Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144297	Thank you very much. My colleague, Lesandric, came forward with a replica just to supplement that statement of yours when you said that the HBOR is financed from the state budget, there are two things that need to be distinguished and this is written in the Law on the implementation of the state budget, so one part of the funds is to increase the underlying capital and the other part of the funds that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture are being placed on, however, it is a small part of the credit assets that the HBOR has. HBOR is in charge of the European Investment Bank, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the World Bank and places those funds. And the other thing, what might have to be said in the introductory explanation, which is that most HBOR loans do not go directly from HBOR but go through business banks, so it is purely to supplement your reasoning where HBOR is financed from, so the HBOR is financed by a smaller, smaller part from the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144298	- Mrs. Crescent. Ninčević Lesandric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144299	I am very sorry that you have not read the amendment of the article in the law because it says nicely that I am asking that everything that is directly credited from HBOR be transparent and that it never lists the name of the bank through which it is going if it is indirect financing. As far as HBOR's funding is concerned, which is about the state of about 7 billion, so I'm not interested in what else is being financed by HBOR, but only what goes from the state budget continues to be passed on to users, it should be public, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144300	Thank you, too. And at the end of Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144301	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague, so I think this bill must be supported by all MPs, and I don't see why my colleague Shucker is putting himself up to this proposal, because it's quite logical what is proposed, I think transparency is necessary I would say both the tools and the necessary thing to fight corruption. What we have here is the situation that unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the HBOR do not want to give an insight into these loans and it is not exactly what the public funds are and that is something that is absolutely unacceptable and we see that the High Administrative Court has brought down the two decisions of the Commissioner for Information and it is not exactly what is said here that only the Commissioner for Information and the HBOR are against the fact that this is public, unfortunately and the State Attorney's side of the Government and on the part of the HBOR and I think that's what's problematic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144302	Time, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ninčević Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144303	My colleague Grmoi, of course I agree because indeed this intransparency of a public institution and, in addition, a bank with public money is actually the biggest problem of corruption, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144304	Would the representatives of the board like to take a word? No, I don't. He opens the debate, the first Mr Tomislav Panenic is in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144305	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, we see this topic as many of us as there are, but it's warmed up this atmosphere a lot, so we really need to get back to what's important. I've already heard here in the presentation of my colleague who said that there's not much to be wised up about, the one who just reads, it's clear to him, but I can see here that we could discuss here for three days, arguing why it's not clear to someone that the state is behind someone unconditionally, giving a guarantee for all his failures, that bank to fail, simply the state would take care of it all. Let's find me another business bank that works on our market behind the state in that way, there's none. So our funds not only are invested in that bank, but also whatever happens with that bank again, our resources will cover it all, and I don't know what to say on this subject anymore, it's not now one kuna, 7 billion kuna, 77 billion, but everything that happens there is actually a covered guarantee, we saw in the shipbuilding when such a situation happens to us, simply the ship's orderer sends it to the charge and the state pays it, so there's no protest, it's simply being paid at first, so with this bank, you wouldn't be the first bank in the world to come into a financial crisis if it happened, there wouldn't be the last one to go bankrupt if it happened, so everything's good when it's good. But when it's not good, then she wonders who's to blame, who now represents that forever in this bank everything will be fine and that honey and milk will shine. Here I can't take the impression that we should expect and be prepared that only transparency can ensure that bad placements are not provided. Maybe this topic wouldn't have been a bit of a public concern because there were a lot of discussions about it, we want a review, so here's the Most Independent Lists' proposal for legislation, let's do that review to control and basic business not only the placement of the credit that goes, which is under some supervision but also the basic business to see what is being spent, in which way, as an institution function, no, there was an answer then and a small door ruling again trying to introduce it but still in application. For years it takes a theme to finally get in, some parties will die, some parties will have this idea to disappear, others will emerge, they will push again, but one will push it out, one will simply have to come out at the moment when someone who is in power or someone who wants to win power, when he needs it most, and that is why it is very important that the initiative exists all the time. The government in its response says MPs and they have no need to do so, and it states that there is an audit house that monitors the audit and that we are in an ideal world where these audit houses are most transparent in their activities, then he would agree, yes. If we look at the recent case of Agrokora, then we see that the world-renowned audit houses are covering up business, and that's what, the most difficult forms of business fraud, and in their report they write everything in order. If it happens in our country with a world-renowned auditory house, it's such a report, giving someone power, and then what's going to happen to the state bank? Well, we're fighting a battle all the time with some of the state's institutions, the companies where they're getting away with it all the time, the money from public users. No one's got a hand on someone at a private firm, so they pulled 100 kuna from that company, and this guy said what he said, and that's what I could use. No, it's always been, it had to be mutually beneficial, and here when the state has no damage because I'm making a decision on behalf of a state-owned company, so it's not my money. This is the money of some taxpayers very broadly, so they will be compensated, it will cover and because of what is written, meaning that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development should publicly publish data on subsidized interest. We're talking about subsidies, what helps people where the state stands behind people, where of course these people feel it's the state that helps them, they don't need to hide. Namely, those I know probably have no need to hide, but they also want to get such an incentive interest that they can achieve their business venture and no one enters their business venture, which is, but we are entering the procedure. And this second article, proposed by a colleague of Ivana, is precisely about decision-making, responsibility for decision-making. Because if there's a collective body that works at most sessions in the minimum composition then we have a problem with the evidence, so when some Agrokora-type affair comes out, suddenly no one knows exactly who was at that session, who exactly was involved in the debate, who was making the decision, everyone just opera is not me, it's not me. This way, when it is known that there must have been at least 6 members of the Supervisory Board to make 2/3 of the decisions then we can very clearly determine that there is nevertheless a critical mass of people who have supported it that have not entered the grounds. I don't know why it's like that. 378 million kunas then placed towards Agrokor if it was clear at that time that Agrokor was in a difficult financial situation, but the assessment of the administration, the bank, the assessment of the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Minister Maric was that it was a good placement, that it was beneficial for Croatian society to subsidise such a company we will benefit. And we shot the money, and then we see how the real financial institutions do when the loan funds show up, then they rip us off with rates that nobody in this assembly would even try to take credit today. Perhaps in a long time, a long time ago the creation of an independent Croatia was an emergency, and we see that they are not at all aware of the need to recognize Agrokor as one of the key companies that is in Croatia and today is very important and it was, they were simply skinning it, it is today, it is still not resolved and only time will show, but Croatia, of course, is not like that to Agrokor and similar companies that the means and there is no need to see it because the decision taken is as it is, why people have stopped, which was an analysis that showed that everything was all right, who stood behind it, who should be responsible or ultimately the only responsibility, as usual to bear Croatian citizens. He would refer a little bit to this part of what his colleague Ivana said about accessing that information. When I look at it, I've practically tried to write all these steps out of it. First there was a request for a journalist who asked for access, then HBOR said no, then we had a commissioner for the information that you must say, then they complained and went to the High Administrative Court, so the High Administrative Court said you must, then they find a quick state attorney who always jumps in when the problem has to be solved, so let's go to the Supreme Court. So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 institutions, and what the government wrote, according to the law, it's clear that you can get the right to information. If this is a Croatian model of access to information, then we will probably all go to retirement here at least, because this takes years and still has no access to it, and the government has made it clear in its statement that you can get this request. I should be making a request to HABOR today, and I expect here, taking perhaps technical conditions, maybe giving them time to give me information, possibly by next Wednesday, that he would already have it on his desk, but I'm afraid that my mandate will expire in this home, too, and I'm afraid that my working life will end until it comes to no, actually on what happened then probably because they declare it after how many 30, 40, 50 years, so once some archives are opened that once again, means we have a care of concealment. Then it will reveal who was bringing, what he was bringing when the public's interest is no longer so great but it will be only the interest of historians and of the HBOR who should be the starting point, the foothold for real financing of quality projects that will provide at one time any... Now it's been a while since we've been talking about development, we've come to the question of the functioning of such an institution, that negative connotations revolve around the bank itself, and then we need to ask ourselves whether such a provision that would ensure transparency should be not only in that bank, but in everything that is financed from state resources, recognised as necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me that, on the basis of this proposal, the ruling majority will flatly reject this. They won't think anything's broken, but let's just make time, every proposal that comes, no matter how reasonable he is, there's not even that comment here we could accept at least one part of it, we could install something of the proposed, so we could increase this transparency by 1%, and here we feel that through these pressures that are now being made to come slowly in time, everything is covering up. We don't need to know what's going on in the CNB, we don't need to know what's going on in HBOR, we don't need to know what's going on with the property of officials, politicians in the Republic of Croatia, we need to justify all this, we need to reduce the possibility of access to legislation, and instead of becoming a democratically transparent society, it shows that giving power to large parties leads to their being able to change a whole series of laws that have been changed primarily under the pressure of entering the EU, have been drastically changed, have been even changed, and are now, in time, as the attention has caved in, to make it more permanently adjusted to make access to any information, and let that information be publicly published. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if we started exactly one thing as we would say, the interpretation here of the transparency of the entire system of state administration, and then we'd face the key problems, which is that the approach is the way someone wants it to be. I remember here from the time of 2016 in the government, there came a simple inquiry on all ministries how much the minister spent money on the official card. This is information that the ministry system can deliver to the journalist in an hour, possibly, maybe two, here if there is no need in one day, but some ministers, like Minister Tolusic, said there is no need and they never delivered it, so they simply deafened to it and we have constant examples of deafening ourselves. The same minister only closed the door of the official car to the question yesterday and flew away so he didn't have to answer. And how long are we going to do that? As long as we go with the cover-up of reality, not only reality but no more courage to answer. Here the opposition tries, notes, hurries, fights therefore, the media have the courage to put a microphone to someone to say, send a memo, ask but then a whole series of institutions that are all state, have either an automatic negative position or as was with the Commissioner who was in favour, so the commissioner came new, who suddenly said no, how can you change, the same institution, the same law, the law did not change, just put the person who suits you and she says no, no more should. So as of today, when I, probably interpret the same law that I don't need, and before that it was a credible interpretation, it should, and because of that credible interpretation given by the Commissioner, it gave a warrant, it ended up in the High Administrative Court that confirmed it, but no, it doesn't stop either. Now comes the Commissioner who says the High Administrative Court is wrong because I have a new position and in that position you do not need. This is how we have institutions and how the institution is politicized and then from one sentence is actually the whole debate in the Croatian Parliament, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144306	Now it'll be Mrs. Gossip. Marijana Balic speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144307	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives Club does not support the adoption of the law in question. Namely, it is worth reminding of a few facts. HBOR is a specific financial institution established by a special law and, by its definition, the development and export bank of the Republic of Croatia. It shall, within its powers and competences, promote a systematic sustainable and balanced both economic and social development in accordance with the general strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia. It shall carry out its activities directly or indirectly through banks or other legal entities, in which it relys in a significant part on its cooperation with the commercial banks in compliance with banking standards. In accordance with the HBOR Act, approved loans, guarantees issued and other transactions carried out by HBOR must be secured in a manner common in banking business. In its business, HBOR applies international accounting standards and international financial reporting standards. In the same way as used by credit institutions. The HBOR Act stipulates that the HBOR is subject to the provisions of the Law on Banks or the current Law on Credit Institutions in the act in which the law refers to them, including the obligation to keep a bank secret. The HBOR shall carry out its activities and operations in accordance with the rules in state aid, following which the HBOR shall provide the competent ministry with information on the public publication of the data on the amount of support. With regard to labour transparency, HBOR as a body of public authorities subject to the Law on the right to access information, publishes a wide range of information on its websites, such as information relating to credit programmes and credit conditions, e.g. information. on guarantees, export credit insurance, economic cooperation funds, documented accreditations, ESI financial instruments, general information, information on international cooperation and memberships in international associations and institutions, information on the amounts and beneficiaries of grants, sponsorship, public tenders, information on the internal organisation and system of the HBOR body, information on how to access information and annual reports on the implementation of the Information Rights Act. Any request for access to information, the HBOR shall resolve each individual and supply the requested information to the applicant unless there are legal restrictions, such as, for example, a bank secret and when carrying out a test of proportionality and public interest does not determine that the public interest prevails. In this case, the HBOR does not meet such requirements in order to protect the interests of its clients. What should certainly be pointed out, and as opposed to when this bill was submitted, it is that, at the beginning of this year, the HBOR further adjusted its behaviour to the Information Access Law in order to increase transparency in such a way that data on credit users, amounts and purpose and the project name are available on request as from 1 January 2019, noting that data on end-users who are indirect customers through business banks are not available and are equally used in an appropriate manner to issue guarantees and counter-guarantees, business insurance and resecuritisation. Furthermore, since the beginning of 2019, customers have already been informed in the request for HBOR placement of the possibilities for the mentioned data to be made available to the public in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, i.e. that the HBOR will, at the request of the public, provide those data which the courts will consider to be regulations and/or competent authority, determine that publicly available data are available on the day on which they are delivered. It is clear from all above that the HBOR publishes a very wide range of information and acts in accordance with the principles of transparency and openness while respecting the legal constraints relating to the obligation to keep a bank secret from the Credit Institutions Act, and especially since the HBOR, apart from the public authority, is a special financial institution governed by the principles of banking operations. When it comes to a proposal from the proposing woman proposing a change in the decision-making method in the Supervisory Board, we also feel that it is not explained why an amendment is required, nor to achieve greater control of the decision-making of the placement, and thus also control the availability of the taxpayer's money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144308	Thank you, too, and now I'm going to give Mr. Grumoy the word he asked for probably for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144309	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to consult after this presentation of a colleague from the HDZ where the contrary means the decisions of the highest authorities of this state, meaning the High Administrative Court, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Commissioner for Information which they have replaced and brought the man against whom we have protested here because we knew that they would hold the ladder to the rulings and that they would hold the ladder to the HBOR. So we have to consult because we simply cannot believe that the most numerous political group in this House with the help of its coalition partners is not clear that the High Administrative Court has taken the view that the HBOR is not a business bank but a public institution that has public funds and that its core capital is paid by the state from the budget, that the state guarantees unconditionally, irrevocably and on the first call without issuing a special public ID. It is amazing that you have again decided to hide information about whom public funds are being paid, to whom citizens' money is being paid. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, it is not your money and you have no right to hide it, and you have no right to hide it from the citizens and it is time to realize that the only way to fight corruption is to introduce transparency. The introduction of transparency in the operation of the HBOR, the introduction of transparency in the work of the Government, the introduction of transparency in the work of officials. This is not the only law MOST has sent to insist on transparency. Recently, as part of our anti-corruption package, we have sent a law that requires that in one place, all the costs of politicians be made public. We'll insist on that as much as you do that. I objected. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144310	Ten minutes so you can consult... You asked for a word? Then we'll wait a little longer, Mr. Vucetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144311	Also on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break to consult and refresh my own logical options because in this debate, from 9.30 to 10 and 24 minutes a blow has been carried out and on logic because there are explanations that are not in line with either the way the mind works or how logic is put in place, and everything to prevent transparency in the Republic. We are these days, today we are witnessing this argument which is a sight of an extension of political violence against institutions and political violence against the availability of information specifically in the HBOR. Also, these days we are witnessing political violence committed against the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. It is the same form, the same mechanism, the same objectives and the same motives of both political violence and other political violence, which is that Croatian society will not be a society that will be transparent and that Croatian society will be the one that develops the relation of farmers in the feudal system, the feudal political system in which all decisions will be made by the institutions, in particular, we have institutions from the High Administrative Court to the Constitutional Court, to the Commissioner for Information, we have institutions such as the Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests on the one hand, and on the other hand we have individual views which have become representative in some political options and parties and who want their objectives, their intentions and their legality to be above the legality and manner and functioning of these institutions in the name of the public... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144312	Time. More? The impact on logic is already a serious remark, so I'm taking a break up to 10 and 40. [[It's 10.27 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.40 HOURS]] 10 and 40, we continue to work and now it's next in front of Mr. Gordan Maras' SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about such an important topic, then we must stress that the right for citizens to know everything is one of the fundamental rights and the public of the work of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia or the way in which budget money is spent is something that Croatian citizens have the right to know. At this point, we are spending or investing in the core capital of HBOR over 7 billion kuna. So the Republic of Croatia, its citizens have paid more than 7 billion kuna into the core capital of HBOR, and on that side, it's money that can't be protected by any banking secret. What I can tell you personally, I must admit is that it is a bit unusual to discuss in front of three MPs but here, 3 but valuable, what I can personally tell you that I have been and in a position to work on the HBOR Supervisory Board as Minister and that even then, as I have now advocated the transparency of work and that I have asked at the Supervisory Board meetings to publicly publish all the data related to giving HBOR credit. So I thought and now I thought that there was no reason to hide or hide information about what we gave, what credit we gave, what conditions we gave as HBOR, and that there would be no problem with even entrepreneurs who honestly seek and want to spend those funds. And of course, like then and now, there is a strong resistance to people hearing that because then many things that are clouded in hundreds and thousands of quality and good jobs and transparent jobs and valuable entrepreneurs and in some way well-used funds in HBOR would remain available to the public, but then there would be hundreds and thousands of jobs that may not have been transparent enough or that led to the fact that the HBOR would sometimes allocate some funds to someone who is close to the authorities, who can use either information or influence and ultimately, it would be seen that the political institution works and how budget money is spent. And for that reason, and that's the only reason why this information is not given because at this point in public space, entrepreneurs who built hotels with a loan or were supposed to build hotels with HBOR's loan reportedly returned credit because they found more favourable sources of funding but the question is again whether these more favourable sources of funding via a business bank might be the loan HBOR gave back. So in other words, the oxy entrepreneur that I don't name now gets a hundred million kunas to build a hotel on the Adriatic and before it starts to build, HBOR instead of a 3% point that gave that entrepreneur 100 million kuna credit, changes the program and introduces over the business bank 2% points, and then that entrepreneur says yeah, I'm going to pay back this 3% point that HBOR gave me, so I'm going to take the same HBOR funds over the business bank under 2% points, and that's going to cost me less than a million kuna a year. And I'm going to pay even a penalty to repay that loan because it's worth more to me. Now, imagine the hypothetical situation that this entrepreneur is connected to ministers sitting on the HBOR Supervisory Board, whether this entrepreneur is connected to ministers and in a way that they visit certain events together, that they have certain business links through other companies, that it is possible that this businessman rents a hundred thousand euros worth of Mercedes to members of the HBOR Supervisory Board or family. Which is why Croatian citizens would not get complete information, which is why they would not know who used HBOR credit funds in which way, whether directly, through business banks, but in a way transparently to see whether there are links between those who make decisions, which are ministers, the chairman of the Supervisory Board Zdravko Maric and all the other ministers inside, including Mrs. Gabriela Žalac, who is the Minister of European Funds, whether there are links between these entrepreneurs who receive loans and those who make decisions on behalf of the HBOR. What is completely illogical is that two institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia, engaged in similar business, provide guarantees and the other lends loans, means HAMAG-BICRO gives guarantees, HBOR gives loans. HAMAG-BICRO since the day I made that decision as a minister, all its reports say companies that received guarantees from HAMAG-BICRO. So, for example, you can see in every report, including the one I have in front of me, HAMAG-BICRO, as much as any guarantees and how she collaborated with individual companies. And there's 500, let's say in the 2017 report there's 575 companies that got a guarantee from HAMAG-BICRO the amount of guarantees, and what the biggest paradox is that some of these loans were realised in HBOR. So, at HAMAG-BICRO stations, we can publish complete information on who received the guarantee, credit, etc., and even the company that got HBOR credit, and on HBOR's stations, we can publish it in HBOR reports. So tell me, colleagues and colleagues, does that make any sense to you? Comrade Bulj, does that make sense to you? So, on HBOR's pages, the same company that received HBOR's credit cannot be published, and on HAMAG-BICRO's stations where the guarantee covering 75% of HBOR's loans was announced to have been credited to HBOR. So here he can, and in HBOR he can't. And you know why he can? Because we made, or at that time I made the decision as minister that all guarantees that HAMAG-BICRO would make will be made public on the pages and in the reports of HAMAG-BICRO. It can do the same, and, be careful, it hasn't diminished interest in issuing guarantees. No, so people want a job, they want to work, they want to invest, they come and they realize that it can help them in the business, they don't have any problem with everybody getting guarantees or loans on the same terms, to make it public. So we have thousands and thousands of companies that have been in this business arrangement with the state and with HBOR that have already been published, not only on HBOR sites, but on HAMAG sites. But they don't mind this company's HDZ because these companies have received both guarantees and loans in a transparent manner. They are bothered by companies for which we must not know how they got the loans, they are bothered to know under what conditions, in which Agrokor made a few months after the outbreak, or before the crisis broke out in Agrokor got loans from HBOR. They are bothered to find out that some of the members and associates of HBOR's board members were receiving loans from HBOR who later proved to be unintended and after the inspection carried out by my ministry the owners of these companies, i.e. the owner of that company, had to deal with the state's attorney's office because instead of investing in their company they invested in something else, most likely in their apartment, and HBOR had not spent quality supervision and established it before we established this inspection supervision of my ministry. So believe me, there are a lot of things in HBOR that want to hide, and they want to hide at all costs. And for this reason, the HBOR is willing to hire and spend hundreds of thousands of kunas of its money to hire lawyers and complain about all possible convictions that have obliged them to publish this information, so the HDZ is ready to change the defendant for information, that is, the Commissioner for Information, Antonia Musa, who has paid her post by claiming to give information to citizens who have been credited to, and now we see that counterpart Piculjan has just changed the practice of what Mrs. Piculjan had. Musa. He goes against it, and then gets decisions from the High Administrative Court that cancel his decisions and force the HBOR again to provide information. I think, I think, colleagues and colleagues, that it would be right for us all to stand behind this law. I have personally been in favour of this law since my start of action in both HBOR and as Minister and as opposition MPs, I advocate that people have the right to receive information about who and how they receive HBOR loans. I said, seven billion kunas of money we paid more than that from the state budget. Over a hundred and 20 billion kuna is a total of loans and more, too, of which every day more and more has passed through HBOR, unfortunately, there are many political loans that have failed and when they are praised for having a small default, a few failed loans, I ask you, that such 10%, how much money has fallen out of over 100 billion kuna, so more than 10 billion kuna is there for which... I think citizens should get that information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And no one should be ashamed of that alive, nor should anyone fear it alive. No business secret, no banking secret, so when we talk about banking institutions, HBOR is not a banking institution because if it were then in the jurisdiction of the CNB as control and auditors and they do not have that obligation, they place funds on behalf of the state for money most often state or again public money being placed across similar institutions within the EU. So the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, is all public money. When it comes to public money, citizens have the right to know what that public money is spent on. I also call here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to support all MPs in the Croatian Parliament this law, to make as transparent a system as possible and to finally know how to spend and how to spend and who to spend and what projects de facto their money is spent on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144315	Mr. Miro Bulj is now the first to have an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144316	Thank you very much. Here we are talking about amendments to the law that allowed only what the court, the Supreme Court, the Administrative Court, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Commissioner, has indicated that the right to information on loans in HBOR must no longer be, which the companies have received must no longer be a secret. And colleague Nincevic proposed this law, the amendments to the law. And I don't see any reason for any parliamentary representative to be against this proposal because I think the debate is that the HDZ Club said it wouldn't support the government's opinion that it doesn't support is simply unacceptable. Here we see that he has joined the opinion of the Government and the Commissioner for Information on the current which means that the Law on the right to access information should not be. However, here is the court, and he said that one who should protect the right to information, which should fight for the right to information, is the current commissioner against it. We see that the state's attorney's office also after a journalist said in 2014 that she had told her colleague Ninčević during the government of Zoran Milanovic in early 2014, asked about HBOR to be provided with a list of all companies that HBOR received loans from 2010 to 2013 and the amounts of these loans and then he, a journalist at the time, was then an affair of Shegon, but when they were in... Shegon, when the information was leaked to the public, was essentially Commissioner Anamaria Musa then said they had the right to information, but since then they have not been supplied with the requested information, so to the journalist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that the State Attorney's Office has also washed hands here, but the court has also said that they have the right to information and I don't see any problem here about what, why this secrecy, why the government's opposition, why the opposition of the state's attorney, why the opposition of Cwitan then, why the opposition of the HDZ to transparency means this information where we have the public money from the budget as it's been said somewhere around 7 billion kuna. And that's not supposed to be a secret, and I think this law is both a logical law and a law that should simply come up with that information why it's hiding. And in the end, we come to the point that one question is why are these data hidden if all institutions are relevant bodies, judicial bodies, all are in favour. In addition to the Government, the State's Attorney's Office and at this point the current Commissioner for Information, but also there, the court said that there was no confidentiality of information here and that there was no information. What's he hiding about? ... that we parliamentary representatives should unanimously support this proposal by colleague Lesandric and that this transparency is essentially being moved, a possible corruption that simply in this way what the ruling majority rejects this law and that the government is essentially benefiting from corruption and increasing the suspicion of the Republic of Croatia for corruption which reduces and economic development, economic development, what our entrepreneurs are dissuading from investment i.e. and influences the very meaning of a demographic image. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is also anti-corruption law because transparency also affects the fight against corruption. Therefore, I ask, therefore, for one more of all my fellow MPs to say individually, which is why they are opposed to this law, to the amendments to the law. If all the judicial authorities and even the European court have given an assessment that they have the right to receive information on HBOR's loans and the companies that have been delivered. And of course, there will always be what's hidden behind who's got it, meaning which companies they got and what amounts they got the loans in. If the government disproves it then, if the government refutes it and opposes the court's decisions, then we consider that, then we believe that the government is essentially in this way secreting certain corrupt operations in the HBOR. And that's why your colleagues, once again I invite you, and also you, Prime Minister, to once again be able to see what's the reason, if all the bodies in the Republic of Croatia, say that they have the right to information about all the loans and loans that companies have received from HBOR credit, why is that kept secret? Which is why the judicial authorities, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice, the High Commissioner who gave it, was the only one protecting it, means the DORH and the secrecy of the information to remain and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If you are in front of the Government because you have not yet shown yourself, you can state your reasons, dear secretary, if I may ask you, why, if it means, all institutions are relevant, and even the European Court of Justice to which you are always calling on the EU and institutions, why do you not go out for this speaker and as secretary of the ministry, very important, finance, do you not tell the public why you keep this information secret? What are you hiding? Why are you keeping this information secret? As a result, the Government does not accept this amendment to the bill to make publicly available the information the companies received and in which they amount. So you didn't do well to go out on this one and explain it to people, we're against it because there's corruption or there's no corruption. Because we've been lending to companies that haven't been able to repay it or maybe they've been linked to someone in power. You simply have to give information because, if I repeat again to all bodies, the trade court, if this is the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the European Court, the Commissioner said that we have the right to information, except now the current meaning of the Commissioner, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the DORH, which are, but also the Court finally ruled that information should not be a secret. Here, once again in front of the government to go out and get the public, you're giving us parliamentary deputies an argument which is why you object to this amendment to the law. And logically, after all this and after this debate and after all the decisions and solutions and judgments of all the courts, that these MPs, the MPs in HS, should accept unanimously and once again, here, the representative of the Government, I ask the Government to publicly explain once again, that the reasons why the Government of the Republic does not accept this proposal where all companies and heights and amounts of the company would be transparent and amounts to loans to all those to whom the HBORs were assigned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144317	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144318	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, I think it is clear here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia unfortunately does not want transparency, does not want what the High Administrative Court and the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court and the former Commissioner for Information to be made public, means loans and companies to which that money is the money, which is public money, because the HBOR is, it is clear and says so in its judgment the High Administrative Court means that it is not the HBOR Business Bank but, I quote, a public institution that has the public funds to pay the state out of the budget, that the state guarantees unconditionally, irrevocably and on the first call without issuing a special public ID. And I think what we insist on, which is what a colleague insists on with our support, is something that is logical and must be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144319	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144320	So I think, above all, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must be publicly and transparently from this speaker, the representative would have to explain, I ask him a question why the proposal for amending the law that a colleague proposes when it is visible that all bodies judicially applicable to the Constitutional, Supreme Court have given, the European Court, the Commissioner, everyone has given their position that we simply have and that everyone has the right to information for all loans received by companies and amounts from HBOR. I once again ask here a representative of the Government, the Honorable Secretary of the Ministry of Finance to come out and explain why judicial decisions are being violated and why it is being kept secret? Is this the element of corruption within these loans or is there some other legitimate reason? For what? Here, I'd like to ask you one more time. And my colleague Grmoya would like to hear that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144321	A fellow Bull. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, a few days ago, we had an information commissioner here who filed, so the Annual Report actually for 2018 when Anamaria Musa was president. I asked the question about the Croatian Football Federation why the Croatian Football Federation does not publish which parliamentary representatives went to the World Cup and the answer was that the Croatian Football Federation is not a public body. And now you have the fact that HBOR, therefore, is a public body, that it is public money and that again, they do not want to publish which companies they gave credit to, and that means for the Croatian Football Federation is inappropriate, let alone for HBOR.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144323	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev, for your response, my colleague Bulj. Comrade Ninčević, please turn off the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144324	Thank you very much. Well, these are two double criteria, so the HNS, they gave an explanation, however, for HBOR not to be worth that explanation, so they found a way to justify all those trips to Greece, hotels, ladies paid from the HNS, it's a hidden HNS. However, when it comes to HBOR's all judicial decisions, Commissioner, the courts all, the European Court, however, we do not get an explanation, we get an opinion in writing, but it would be correct for the public to explain in this assembly what is behind the non-acceptation of this proposal that is logical and that all institutions are essentially calling for a trial be open to the public [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[Intruder:...kolea Bulj]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144325	Next replica, respected colleague Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144326	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleague Bulj, I think it is, and it's really clear what he's hiding, because he's hiding that no data about users and the amount of credit that's been issued is actually to be found out. And I will now tell you only from the Finance Committee because you are not a member, so you are probably not even referred to where actually the Government Government's representative defended the negative opinion of the Government in which he says that this is already transparent and that, as they say, it is transparent or that information is available to the user of the right to access information after considering a concrete request for access to information. So it's not enough that a citizen first doesn't know who he's going to ask for that information at all, and even then to do it by heart, so send it to all 150,000 companies, it's going to be considered again, and then someone will decide again whether he has the right to access that information, so that's not transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144327	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144328	If there's anything in the fight against corruption... transparency of information and this proposal of yours is going towards the goal of seeing and because of entrepreneurs are engaged in this work and because of entrepreneurs who expect certain support and loans, simply in this way, where they do not have the right to information about who received the loan, they are suspected of corruption. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If all the institutions have said that they have the right to information and a sequence of logic that there is public money, 7 billion kuna is for public money, I don't see any reason why they don't support it, I don't see any reason, and the MPs would triangulate it with the logic of the judicial bodies that have made the decision, support it. But they don't want to, but I'm more interested in the opinion of the government's representatives, not in writing, but after this debate, to give my explanation of what is being kept secret and what corrupt actions are I no longer having any other way. how to ask a question. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144329	...to my colleague Bull's reply. Next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is clear what this is about, why it is kept secret, which is why no information is provided, which is why the HBOR acts when it suits it as a banking institution, and when it responds to it that it is not a banking institution or that it is not subject to supervision or the CNB, that it is not subject to the qualifications of the members of the administration in order to be accredited by the CNB in order to manage the banking institution, then it is also not necessary, but when it is necessary to provide information for Croatian citizens to hear the credits that the companies received it, then it is a problem, then that information is not given. And of course, there is no transparency in HDZ's interest, unfortunately, at the beginning of the Republic of Croatia, means our independence, the HDZ grows one constant, which is the non-transparency and use of influence to channel public money very often in private interests. And then you have situations like this that happened in Virovitica, 17 million kunas evaporated without anyone knowing. If they had a system of spending public money transparent in Virovitica, it would be known, not only would it be to the mayors of Kirin and this late gentleman who is ultimately in a very ugly way accused of all that he is the only guilty and ultimately want everyone to take responsibility for the man he no longer has, but 17 million kuna is gone. How many million kunas have disappeared from HBOR in a similar way, non-transparently, perhaps illegally and will never be returned. Hundreds of billions of kunas placed HBORs to entrepreneurs, craftsmen, etc., one large part, the amount of large, over 10 billion kunas has never been returned and more than that. Remember those, I said... villages, meaning the equipment of agricultural stables and the purchase of livestock during Cobankovic and Sanader in 2007-2008 when hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas were invested in something that has never been revived and what loans are all in difficulty very likely to return, and where did the money disappear from these projects? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We won't know that. What kind of people got credit? We won't know that. In the end, it is obvious that in a large amount of money if things are settled non-transparently as they are now, if they are managed by people who are closely associated with entrepreneurs who use these same loans as Mr. Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance, Mrs. Gabriela Žalac, Mr Tolusic, so do you want to know how many loans have been made in Virovitica-Podravska County? Could the company that built Mr. Tolusic's house be the beneficiary of some of HBOR's loans? Who knows what we will discover if we get this information that the HBOR so with great passion hides, calling as if it did not expose the entrepreneurs, special damage, and in the end there are thousands of honest ones who have been exploited and ultimately very probably not transparently, perhaps using loans from the HBOR whose entire source, Mr Schuker said there are arrangements that are connected to other institutions, to place funds that are from the EU as if it were also not public money, as if the credit lines from the European Investment Bank were also not public money just what are European and not from the Croatian budget, and no matter what, we paid billions and billions to the HBOR and we all know, we all have the right to know who and in what way it is available to that money and to whom it is allocated, believe me, we would have what to see. We'd have something to see and if a man had no obligation to keep a business secret, I could say a lot of things illogically what the amendment saw there and I fought against it. Imagine the logic, imagine the logic that the law defines HBOR's board of directors as sitting with the president of the HGK. So whose interests is he sitting there working for? We know the situation that Nadan Vidosevic, when he was president of the HGK, was sitting on the HBOR Supervisory Board and working in a company that also had business cooperation with this HBOR? So is that a conflict of interest? Is that what HDZ is for us to say, Colloquially give? And it's clear why HDZ doesn't want to be published, it's stories for little kids, we protect companies, banking secrets, this, that, that, they care about that. They don't want these kinds of scams to be discovered that I could only refer to you in my debate. It's a shameful decision by Mr. Piculjano who went against his predecessors as an informative commissioner that they don't need that information. Believe me, Mr. Piculjan has lost his trust as an information commissioner. I've been giving full support to Mrs. Devereaux. Musi, she did this job excellently and I am sorry that her successor precisely works the opposite in the interest of those who do not want transparency in the Republic of Croatia. I invite you, there is hardly anyone here from HDZ, it is truly amazing what level of indifference to this topic of government but what I can tell you is that I, like the minister when I was, did not give up, still give full support to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia getting the information they can and must have. I will once again show you how I have practiced this on my example, here I hold in my hands national guarantees issued in 2017. Croatian Small Economy Agency, 575 guarantees, worth 160 million kuna. Many of these companies and crafts have received HBOR loans, why this is publicly available and these loans they have received mean here you can see the amount of credit, guarantees etc. Why these loans are not available on HBOR sites, why this is possible and this shows that anything is possible, that nothing is compromised and that is not possible in HBOR. I call on you to support this law, and if and when I am in opportunity again and as a legislator in front of the majority in the Croatian Parliament, I will advocate that this information be published, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144331	Thanks, buddy. The two of us from HDZ are here as you can see, colleague Culey and I, and you're seeing lonely at the SDP club. We have a replica, dear colleague of the bush, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144332	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Maras, I think it's clear to all of you that this position of the Government and the ruling completely impeccable, something that all of the key institutions in the state, the High Administrative Court, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, are saying that they need to deliver an insight into credits, the users of credits because it's about public money, and besides the state guarantees HBOR, it's totally amazing this attitude of the Government, but also Mr. Pichuljana, remember how much I've attacked his appointment here, and he's now making decisions in favour of the HBOR, and his decisions are being brought down by the High Administrative Court, this is a very important topic, unfortunately it's not better followed, it's unfortunate that the assembly is so empty, that we are here persistently insisting on transparency, I'd like to keep this topic much longer in the public focus because it shows how much the relationship of the rulings towards the public transparency and towards [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Croatian citizens. [[Intruder:...kole Grumo]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144333	Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144334	Thank you very much. They're right to be a full colleague of Grumo, so the assembly is unfortunately empty and what 70% of present MPs in HS can notice at the moment are representatives of the opposition. So, excuse me, so, 90 %, so we have 11 MPs, 77% to be exact, so it's present in the Croatian Parliament, of 11 MPs is only three of them, 8 of them are oppositions, so I give a slightly wider picture of what HS Vice President just said, it's in line with, unfortunately, the interest of the position for transparency, which is not only about this law, but also a lot of others, absolutely everything needs to be presented to the citizens, let them see and let them know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144335	Thank you, colleague Maras. Next replica, dear colleague Stevo Culey, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144336	Dear fellow Maras, I'm so glad that you're talking about this topic is you were 007 James Bond in the campaign, but remember that little Kalimer who was screaming "it's an injustice", and you're forgetting that HBOR's loan was only two months after the SDP came to power in 2012 to award Zoran Milanovic, your prime minister 1.9 million kuna for the car wash, so did you remember that case when HBOR was handing out money in that way? Did he call anyone or not? Did you know about this case? 1.9 million, which would have been even more tragic if it had stayed in the family, than they had fallen apart and married after two months. Who paid that money back? It's nobody.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144337	Thank you, colleague Culey. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144338	I must admit that this is as informed as you are, I'm not, although the level of information you have at your disposal is very rarely shown as authentic, so it's mountaineering, in forests and mountains, from the hills from the valley, what do you say, hitting on topics and information that simply no one can check alive, but I'd like to, support, support, what's going on, there's something on your cell phone? So... [[Intruder: Car wash]] I'd like to, I'd like my colleague Culey to have you back this bill when you're so much for transparency that we all see what you have on your phone, why should only you be so informed, let us all know, that all citizens know it, raise your hand to that law, so we'll know who, what it is, how it is, etc., I have absolutely nothing against it, you're the one who wants to know that information without the rest of the citizens of the Republic. [[Intruder: Comrade Culey, please do not interfere]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144339	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144340	I thank my esteemed colleague Maras, and unfortunately the word transparency stops where the Republic of Croatia starts, especially when it comes to money flows, especially public money, we are witnessing all the affairs, so here is the last thing we see in Virovitica where the public money has traveled somewhere where it is now being explored, the man has lost his life, no matter how and simply we don't have transparent data about what happened there. Also, with all these means being talked about in a gray zone today, you simply don't even know the citizens, and even we advocates can't get the right information so that I can have it. How long will that word of transparency be a foreign word in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144341	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras has come forward for his word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144342	Thank you very much. It's one of the flossules that unfortunately is used very often...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144343	Comrade Maras, excuse me, are you responding to a replica or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144344	Yes, yes, I'm responding to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144345	You answer, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144346	Yeah, to respond to a replica, so it says in... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144347	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144348	So that's, that's one of the flossules that's often used in the jargon of campaign politicians who don't really mean it, unfortunately dominated by people who are now acting in power, transparency, we're going to say everything, we're going to show everything, and in the end they're not going to show anything. The only person with information in this room is Mr. Steve Culey on his cell phone, and I'd like to have a cell phone like that to see the information that's coming to him, but I don't. So, only Mr. Steve Culley has this information and he has it with them, I want all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and not just Mr. Steve Culey to know who's been getting the credits from HBOR, who's been using them, though, I don't have much interest in knowing whose brother-in-law he is, he just wants to know. But I'd like to know who got the loans. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Maras...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144349	...in response. Here, here's a word for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm looking for a break to consult a little more on this subject, especially after the information that I've heard here, here's the 15th that we've just started filling in the assembly, which is that Mr. Stevo Culey has information that the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia don't have. So we want to consult to see what is the way for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not only Mr. Stevo Culej, but also Mr. Grmoja, Mr. Radin, Mr. Alexic, colleagues and all the others who are here, to have information on who received HBOR loans. This is what we want not only Mr. Culey, of course we do not want as Mr. Stevo Culej to know who his brother-in-law is, after all, his part of the job, he's interested, we're interested in who got the loans and how many of those loans were distributed in the last, since the beginning of HBOR, meaning over 100 and some billion and in which way they were returned and whether or not these projects were realised. And then I'm sure all of us, including Mr. Stevo Culey, would see how many times someone connected to HDZ got a loan, how these loans were realised, why someone returned a loan to tourism, and then again from the bank, probably in the same programme at a more favourable interest rate, took a new loan, and then took pictures with HDZ ministers, etc. That's what he's afraid of, HDZ, and that's why he doesn't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144351	Thank you, colleague Maras. I'm setting a break until 11 o'clock and 41 minutes. It's 11:00.31. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.43 HOURS]] On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144353	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am pleased to see all morning active parliamentary representatives, but I am not glad that they are only parliamentary representatives, opposition MPs, from the ranks of ruling people except in the name of the club where they will not support the law tonight, except Mr Shucker reported that very unusually for his announcement, he would say, where he himself had nothing to say about all these chronological events related to this topic, but he only said that the HBOR was not only funded from the state budget, but from other sources, the truth, however, these 7 billion kuna from the state budget is quite enough for us to have these funds or people, the legal entities to which they were assigned to be public. I would like to repeat this once again, given that there are now a little more representatives than in the Croatian Parliament this morning, which is that the HBOR's allocated funds should be transparent, says the Commissioner for Information and the High Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court and finally the European Court, but all these decisions and all those solutions still mean nothing to the HBOR because they continue to refuse to publish any information publicly and it is very important to note once again that the HBOR is not a business bank, but is a public institution that has the public funds, its core capital is paid to the state budget, the state is responsible for all the obligations of the HBOR, guaranteed unconditionally, irrevocably and on the first call without issuing of a special public document, which is very, very important information that is precisely why we want all the users of HBOR services to be announced, because it is public money available to the public body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144354	I thank my colleague Ninčević Lesandric. We have replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144355	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I would agree with you that it is unclear that my colleagues in the ruling majority have absolutely no comment except one comment made by my colleague Schuker and it is even more worrying that the Government representative does not want to answer before the public the parliamentary deputies why the HBOR loans for all the companies that have received it and in which amounts these loans are given. And when we see everything that's happened around this and your proposal is acceptable and when we see that the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Commissioner, is all that to be transparent and to be publicly published a list of all companies that have been credited with HBOR and the level of credit, however, the Government opposes, parliamentary deputies oppose, disrespect the institution, do not respect information.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144356	I thank my colleague Bull. Answer, colleague Ninčević Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144357	A fellow Bulj, well a representative of the Government must probably not say his opinion but must repeat what the Government says in its opinion and the Government’s opinion is negative and in its opinion it actually says in one hand that it does not care at all and what the High Court of Justice, Supreme Court and Constitutional Court and Commissioner says, because the Government itself has concluded that it is above all institutions, above all courts, above the European Court and above all the living who are actually quite logical, means that it is quite logical to be public and transparent and published and of course that all... and solutions and judgments and order it so must be, but the government here is putting itself above all of them and they don't care at all what and what all the institutions say and what we discuss in the Parliament and what, in fact, this law is ultimately speaking, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144358	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144359	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Lesandric, HBOR, gave a great institution with a very important position and importance for a country that can truly be a development generator and that can be a place where the state demonstrates that the state cares equally about everyone and where all citizens have equal opportunities to get the funds, develop business ideas and thus push the country forward. And finally, when we see that your proposal is actually excellent and he would be among other things I mean very good and demographic places because this is how people who would like and who need money can't go forward and others can.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144360	I thank my colleague Dobrović. Answer, colleague Ninčević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144361	Well, that's right, colleague Dobrović, I already said earlier in the presentation, so I know a lot of entrepreneurs who, for further development of their product, services and generally businesses, needed credit funds and, somehow, the most logical thing would be to address the HBOR that is doing so, but they did not do so for reasons or their explanation... He's setting everything up anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why we need to introduce this transparency so that we can just get away from this thinking that everything is being set up, that it's corruption, that it's like this, that it's because these people need encouragement. The only incentive is for them to see transparently who got all the credit, in which way they'll apply, so no one's getting lost for six months. my time, my paperwork, my million and one tax, and I don't know what else to do without getting that loan anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144362	Thank you. Next debate, esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144363	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, a full assembly, there are MPs coming to the vote and here all morning mostly the representatives of the Most, so they're discussing this topic, we've been joined by a part of the colleagues from SDP and HSS, but the assembly is empty, and the topic is very important. It is the fact that counterpart Nincevic asked HABOR to publicly publish the loans it grants, the users of these loans. It is also agreed by the most important institutions in the Republic of Croatia that is the High Administrative Court, it is the Supreme Court, it is the Constitutional Court. This was agreed by the Commissioner for Informing Ana Maria Musa, however, it should have been removed for Mr Piculjan, a man from the former system who apparently corresponded to the HDZ because we know that in the former system, the anti-Croatian, communist system, it was not allowed to speak, nor to think that there could be no information and such practice obviously prevailing. They do not want a democratic society in which citizens have the right to access information, in which they have the right to free opinion, to express their views, do not want us to know who the HABOR grants loans to, what the amounts of these loans are, in which way these loans are granted. And I'm just going to read here, so to understand what I'm talking about, the judgment of the High Administrative Court who knocked down Mr. Piculjan's opinion, which is scandalous that the Commissioner for Information is hiding information, means the High Administrative Court in its decision, that HABOR is not quoting: a business bank but a public institution that has public funds, that its core capital is being paid by the state from the budget, that the state guarantees to all the HABOR obligations unconditionally, irrevocably, irrevocably and on the first call. So, on the first call without issuing a special public ID. So it's all clear here and I can't figure out this kind of convulsive struggle of rulings to hide HABOR's loans, it's completely inexplicable to me. I'd like to, here come the HDZ colleagues now, have someone answer the word and try to justify the government's position, here it can be a colleague, Boris, for example. or a colleague of Contact who has just entered, let him come forward and explain to us how the rulings represent an attitude that is contrary to the most important judicial institutions in this country, the High Administrative Court, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court. How is this possible and how do they justify the fact that they are hiding information about the public funds granted by HABOR? And what they are, of course, is about state money or money that is our citizens' money. All state money comes from the payment of citizens so it's citizens' money. And now you're hiding information from these citizens about loans, about HABOR loans. I welcome all those who have come to vote at 12 o'clock So, I think the situation here is clear, that transparency is the only way we can fight corruption, and we, as MOST, will persist, consistently advocate transparency, and we are doing this with this legislative proposal that we are asking for public disclosure of all HABOR loans, but we are doing this as other legal proposals such as the law that I recently referred to in the procedure which is part of our anti-corruption package, which is that all the costs of officials are publicly published, in one place by example in Ireland and Canada. [[Intruder: My colleagues, my colleagues from HDZ, I would like to ask you nicely not to disturb my colleague Grmoy while he is discussing it, please visit my colleague Grmoy.]] In his statement, counterpart Panenic said that a minister in the government of Tihomir Oreskovic was the only one who hid information about the costs he makes as a minister, so he did not respond to the media. If this law had been voted upon, it would have been impossible, as every body from the head of the units of local self-government, the county and to the highest state officials would have to, their bodies would have to publicise all costs in one place. I don't know why we're so afraid of transparency, I don't know why we're so afraid of everything being made public. It will also affect us as politicians not to get into a situation means some kind of malfeasance or anything else. A colleague here spoke of the situation in Virovitica, so it's scandalous that such things happen, that 17 million kunas disappear from the budget, that we don't have the answers, that there's an accident that doesn't even happen to that man's autopsy. I'm not saying that there was anything other than what was determined, but very smelly colleagues, it's a very strange situation. And that's what's not good, it's tearing down trust in institutions, it's tearing down confidence in politicians, it's tearing down trust in this high house. What we are going to insist on is absolute transparency, I know that some colleagues of HDZ have advocated such transparency, here is a fellow Milosevic. And I don't think he can possibly justify the fact that the ruling rises against HABOR's loans being made public. It's the position of all high-level judicial institutions in this country. And I call again on all MPs obviously on this bill we will not vote today because we will not be able to discuss this point, but I call on you all to, when it comes to the vote of this point, in accordance with the decisions of the highest judicial authorities, support this legislative proposal. I must also stress my express dissatisfaction with the Commissioner for Information, Mr Pichujan, who is short on the post, and is already two opinions and two decisions have been taken down by the High Court of Justice, and this is precisely because of the HABOR loan case because he has sided with HABOR, and not by citizens who have sought information, which is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable. It's a good thing here's the meeting room getting fuller, it'd be good if your colleagues would listen a little bit to what we've been discussing here all morning, the topic is important, and now I'm in the position of Vice President to outsmart with my colleagues... [[Intruder: Collars]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144364	Just a little buddy of Grumo's. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you nicely for peace in the assembly, those who have something else to say to each other to leave the assembly, and if my colleague Grumoja were to finish his debate, please welcome Mrmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144365	Thank you, Vice President, and another commendation for your presidency, I think you are the best chairman of this meeting HS. So, therefore, that means chairing a lot more chair and I have to point it out as very positive in what it does, I don't, I don't have any fences on it. So, as far as this proposal is concerned, as far as this bill is concerned, I call on you respected colleagues to support our citizens' right to access information, these are very important things, it is about citizens' money, HBOR loans, and it is absolutely unacceptable that, with the support of the ruling majority, the HBOR does not allow citizens to come up with this very important information. I believe that you share that attitude, we couldn't hear except for a colleague who, a colleague of Mariana who had a debate on behalf of the club, couldn't hear a single HDZ representative what your position on this issue is, I would ask you to consider your views and support this legal, this legislative proposal. Here, no, I can't talk anymore because there's just too much noise in the assembly room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144366	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you nicely once again for peace in the assembly. We have a replica, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144367	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague of Grmoja, therefore, hides information about investing public money for business purposes, public money that should be available to all who come with a good idea because it is a good idea in realisation in a business environment, a healthy business environment, something that contributes to the development of the Republic of Croatia. The insistence on hiding information actually speaks very much. So, I don't know why the government's advocating and shaking to fix itself on various Doing Business lists, and I don't know what kind of corruption, when there's one thing that's a terrible chance of jumping, so, of course, upwardly, to accept this legal proposal that, I don't know who it's jeopardizing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144368	Thank you. The answer of my esteemed colleague, Mr. Grmoy, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144369	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Dobrović, we don't understand it either, we don't understand why this kind of endurance in hiding information about HBOR loans, the public requires it, the most institutions in this country require it, so I don't know what kind of resistance it is, what's hiding it from, who are the information being hidden from? Of those who pay us dear citizens and dear and dear, dear colleagues, our citizens pay us, they also give money for HBOR loans, they give money for our salaries and they cannot believe that this position is the ruling majority according to this proposal, which is rational, normal and which also has the support of the highest judicial bodies of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144370	Thank you. A colleague, Djakić and counterpart Franjo Lucic, if you have so many urgent obligations, please leave the assembly and allow us to continue our work. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144371	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Grmoi, we see that our colleagues have come here, that we simply cannot communicate, have come to make a commitment that was ordered to raise their hands on Friday mornings and that we cannot communicate about a very important law in a way that would have been discussed, which is one transparent bill to publish public loans to all companies to whom the amount of credit HBOR has given. We can't get that information no matter what the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court, the European Court, said that we have the right to information and counsel, which is why you gentlemen are now in and you've come to vote here and you've got a jokebachter, which is why you're violating decisions from our judicial bodies, European bodies? Here, fellow Stier called for the resolution of corruption [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] and fight corruption [[Agreement: colleague Bulj]] Will you vote for this law? [[Intruder: colleague Bulj...]] Thank you. [[I thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144372	Answer, comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144373	Thank you. Dear fellow Bulj, that we have been discussing here all morning in an empty assembly on this bill, we have fought for the right of our citizens to get access to information, to get information about HBOR loans or to get information about the public money paid by the HBOR means or to pay off certain business entities, however, this information obviously ruling to hide, and the situation in the assembly is now very difficult at all for any debate and it has obviously come to do the job here, to vote, the ruling does not care for the citizens, nor for their right to know that they know the key information, so simply here has become unsustainable, unsustainable for, to debate, and it is unknowable to rule this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144374	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you nicely once again to establish peace in the assembly so that we may continue the debate because otherwise I will give a break and then we will continue when you calm down. We have the next debate, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so since there's a lot of traffic in the assembly and seeing that HDZ's deputies are in a hurry, here I am going to finish my debate so that we can keep doing this and I'm appealing to other colleagues, so we can do this so that our HDZ colleagues can go on weekends and we can't keep them here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144376	Thank you. We send our colleagues a very nice message to the Croatian public as we behave in the Croatian Parliament. Next debate, respected counterpart Miro Bulj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144377	Our colleagues and colleagues, we do not even have a representative of the Government anymore who would have to give an opinion on a very important proposal to amend the law where all loans and loans granted to the HBOR are required to be made public and transparent. All the institutions of colleagues and colleagues, all the institutions that are relevant from the High Court of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the former commissioner, all said that this must be publicly and transparently published and that every citizen has the right to know. The press couldn't get to this data in the case of Shegon yet, and it continued. This is about 7 billion kuna of public money in HBOR, which has been allocated to who knows in which way and all institutions, even the Administrative Court, even the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Commissioner, except for the state's attorney, the government of the Republic of Croatia that opposes and here we have a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the club MOST, all morning we have been discussing a very important proposal made by counterpart Ivana Lesandric-Ninčević, who has made this proposal to discuss it and to make the decision that needs to be made. And the European Court of Justice you are referring to, you are calling for a fight against corruption, especially here, colleague Stier has always warned that this is the key to the problem. Here I am calling on my fellow Stier to rise publicly and say he will vote on this proposal. Because there's no reason for the government to be hiding this if it's not about corruption. Because this is public and transparent. I ask you all colleagues and colleagues whether the Croatian public has the right to know who received the loans, which companies and on which they represent from HBOR. Here I call you all colleagues and colleagues mostly from most of you who are silent except for Mr. Ivan Shuker who answered and has been vaguely sending a message about what this is all about. I ask you all, I know you're busy with jokes and how you're going to vote, but this is a very important law. I know fellow Glavak that you don't have to listen to this, I can see that you're nervous. Listen, please, this is the right of everyone, this is the right of our citizens to publicly establish that HBOR must not hide the information of who has received and in which amount of credit, which companies. It's from the development of the economy, it's because of the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs if they don't all have the same opportunity and not the competitiveness and that injustice that's hidden here is underneath this, it's probably hiding corruption and this way, this is how the development of the Republic of Croatia and the demographic fall is inhibited. If I repeat the High Administrative Court, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Commissioner said it must be made public, that a public list of all companies that have received loans and loans in HBOR is to be published, which is why you gentlemen oppose, you, the State Attorney's Office, and you gentlemen from the Government. All morning we have been asking a question here from MOST club on this proposal by colleague Ivana Ninčević, which is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its representative does not go to this pay phone and does not give an additional explanation because the opinion is unacceptable because all of these institutions that I have listed clearly say that this must be accepted and that this list of all companies in HBOR must be publicly and transparently published. And I really expect my colleagues and colleagues to, after what you've got, a jokebachter how to vote, and when you show up here on Fridays, and especially from those who stress the fight against corruption, which is, I repeat, he pointed out the example of Mr Stier, to publicly advise his colleagues and to write to them on a jokebachter that they must accept this because the European Court of Justice, which Mr Stier and the other colleagues are also calling for, has also reached a public verdict, a decision that this must be made public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144378	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to suspend the debate on the Amendment Law proposal and the addition of the HBOR Act and we will join the vote. So we're done for today with the vote. Yes, as regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of Final Exhibition, which was to be held by MP Ninčević, she gave up, so I am closing the debate and we will vote on that point when conditions are obtained and we will now move to free speech by clubs. Please, whoever wants to stay, let him stay, and let him who leaves the session do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144382	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for Selection and Designation, proposes a discharge of the members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Tomislav Sokola, a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by Branko Juričev Martinchev. A member of the Legislatives Committee of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Tomislav Sokola is a member of the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament Mato Čičak. A member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Tomislav Sokola and Ljubica Lukačić is proposed as a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Tomislav Sokola is proposed as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament by Ivan Šipić. A member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament Ljubice Lukačić is proposed and Ante Babic is proposed as a member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. A decision on the appointment of members of the State Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters is proposed. For members of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from natural disasters, Master Krešimir Dragic, a member of the Ministry of Finance, Natasa Veligaj, proposed a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, Sanja Krnić Bastic, a member of the proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Pave Šašlina proposal from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Miro Macan proposal from the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection, Mr. Jasna Divic is a member of the proposal from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and Krešimir Frančić from insurance companies. And the members of the MPs remain, that's the president of the state commission Dr. Josip Križanić, members of Damir Felak, Josip Djakic, Robert Jankovic, Marta Luc Polanc, Marko Vesligaj and Anka Mrak Taritas, to the representative of the parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144383	I'm opening a debate, and if there are no interested, I'm closing the debate, so I suggest we vote unitedly on all the proposals tabled by Sanader's chairman. I therefore vote on all decisions of the board of directors. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous that 84 votes are in favour, that decisions have been made as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144384	We move on to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Selection, appointment and resolution of the President of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Mr. Antu Sanader, to explain the motions of the decision, please choose your colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144385	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, may I have your attention? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament proposes a resolution of the member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament Peter Škorić and, as a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Ante Plazonić is proposed. Suggestions for members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Vinko Grgić and Saša Djujic. It is proposed for the head of the delegation of the Croatian Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly... Mark Vesligaj, given that on 12 July 2019 it is the responsibility of the Head of the delegation of the Croatian Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Predrag Matic stopped acting because of the termination of the parliamentary term. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A decision is proposed on the appointment and termination of the deputy governor of the CNB. Dr.sc is proposed for Vice Governor of the CNB. Michael Fauland and Bojan Frass, given that on July 5, 2019, Deputy Governor of the CNB ceased to act as Dr. Michael Fauland and Bojan Frass for stopping the term of office. In addition, you have all the life-forms, so you can take a look at it if you're interested, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144386	I thank the esteemed chairman of the board of Mr. Anti Sanader. I am opening a debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144387	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, as mentioned above, 5.7.2019, the term of office of two Vice-Governors who are being proposed and for the next term, it is about Mr. Michael Fauland, a graduate. an economist and Mr. Bojan Frass, who is an expert lawyer and who has been acting on those duties so far. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act on the CNB is prescribed to appoint the Croatian Parliament as the Vice-Governmentary of the CNB on a proposal from the Committee on Selection and Designation, with the preliminary opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. As we agree and unanimously decide that these two candidates continue their mandates, so for the next 6 years, this is the HDZ Club, together with their coalition partners, have proposed these candidates and here with their experience, with our work and exceptional expertise, we can confirm that these are high-quality candidates for the future period.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144388	I thank my colleague, Peric. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the chairman of Mr. Sanader's committee for the reasons of the proposal, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the agenda points for today, we will continue our work tomorrow at 9:30 in the morning with a statement on the amendments and at 12 o'clock we will have a vote. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. SESSION Interrupted at 21.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144389	Now let's go to the choice, appointment and resolution. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the debate is closed. I would like to stress that Article 7. The Law on the State Election Commission for the adoption of this Decision requires a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144390	The Honorable Mr. President of the SDP Club is looking for a break to warn again that it is an unconstitutional and illegal usurpation of another independent body, which is the State Election Commission. With the election of a member of the State Election Commission as proposed, the ruling majority will have 4 members and the opposition will remain on 2 members. So I'm gonna do it again. In 2000 and some years, I think it was '13. Mr. Josip Vresk was elected to the State Election Commission as a proposal from the HDZ Representatives Club. Afterwards, Mrs. Devereaux. Ana Lovrin and Mr Emil Tomljanovic were also elected to the DIP on the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club. As the HDZ today makes up the parliamentary majority, the 4th member of the DIP will also be elected on the HDZ proposal. Therefore, we can only conclude that you and the government are opposition. But no, so this is another attempt to bring an independent body into dependence on the ruling majority, although there is no need for it, because I think that both the DIP and the current composition have done a good job and I don't know why you insist on this. As you were wise and did not do so before the European elections, then be wise and do not do so before the presidential elections. Therefore, because I declare in advance that we will refer to the Constitutional Court a request to annul this choice and to make the composition of the DIP in such a way as to comply with the law or amend the law. You have most of it, so do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144391	Okay. Anybody else sign up? Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144392	Thank you very much, President HS. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU. So, we've been having a discussion about the composition of the DIP. We know that 3 seats are ruling, 3 seats are opposition. But no matter what, you've made up your mind, I'll wait for my colleagues to leave. I don't have a problem, I'll wait for my colleague to leave... [[Intruder: My colleagues and colleagues, please, a little.]] It's obviously hard for them to hear something, so then, just let them go. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] So 3 seats are ruling, 3 seats are opposition. You have enough men to change the law. Change the law. But don't do this. Don't do this. Don't do the thing that's actually upside down. The thing that's naharadic. A thing that will serve no one to honor. It is absolutely clear what was the composition of the electoral commission at the time it was elected. Whether the composition of the electoral commission, depending on the overrun in the Assembly, is going to change some other way every time the presupply in the Assembly. It won't change. It was an extremely wise decision when you decided about the EU elections not to be before then, so wait for the elections to pass and then beyond that because at this point you have a 3-2 ratio, according to this moment, the relationship is in your favor. But don't do this, don't make a circus out of democracy in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144393	Comrade Bačić, HDZ Representatives' Club, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144394	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This proposal by the HDZ Representatives Club, adopted by the Election and Appointing Committee, equates the relationship of the proposed members of the DIP between the opposition and the ruling members of the HS. Namely, Mr... who Mr. Bauk claims to have been proposed by the HDZ Club, he was indeed proposed in front of the HDZ Club, but then as a member of the HSS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As it is, meanwhile, because at that time the HSS could not propose its candidate since it did not have sufficient number of MPs, so that it could propose a candidate in the DIP. Meanwhile, as is very evident from HSS behaviour, it is an opposition party in HS. Therefore, if we were to leave that place to someone who would run for opposition in HS, then the ratio in DIP would be 4-2 in favour of the opposition. In order not to make this happen, the DIP would be agreed on in accordance with the ruling and opposition ratio in HS is the only correct way to accept Mrs. Ivan Belec, who was proposed on behalf of the ruling majority clubs. Therefore, we support that the SDP directs the Constitutional Court this proposal and I am livingly interested in the outcome of such... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144395	Thank you. We have a first breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bauk, and then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144396	Art. In 238, and I give myself a warning, but for 30 seconds, I will deny what Mr. Bacic said. Mr. Vresk was elected in 2005 or 2006 as a member of the HSS. In 2013, he had not been a member of the HSS for eight years, HSS had no club and was not invited to propose members of the DIP at all. If you're going to say that in eight years, a member of the HSS was Mr. Vresk, it's as if today you're saying that your representative is going to be Jadranka Kosor somewhere because she was in HDZ eight years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144397	Okay. Just a second. You gave yourself a warning. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144398	Here, since the HSS is mentioned, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, we are looking for a 10-minute break, so that we can consult on this topic. Yes, HSS, Joseph Vresk, of course it wasn't an HSS proposal, I was vice president at the time, I wasn't in the Parliament, we didn't have a club, we never talked about it. Josip Vresk was an HDZ proposal and you know it very well, Mr. Bačić. He has not been a member of the party since the time of Mr. Tomcic, and he could not have been a member of the HSS because he had no knowledge of me, but also of those present today, Mr. Lenart and Vlaovic, who were members of the presidency, was simply not possible. Perhaps you can ask your member and your errand boy, who you've put into Parliament at the time, and if he's made a decision on his own, as he's made all decisions on his own, but, behold, it's your crime. That's your crime scene. You were dealing with people you basically held as your errand boy and thought you could destroy the oldest Croatian party. You can't have friends and friends from HDZ. You're not gonna make it, and now you're trying to transfer some old sins and old crime scenes, some old people who have nothing to do with anything long ago with HSS, back to us. Be fair and say it was the HDZ proposal. It is clear that this is a proposal from the HDZ. Don't ask, you have a majority like that, so you don't have to have everything and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144399	All right, now it's the HDS, HDSB and HSLS's Club of Representatives, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144400	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break on the same issue, and I can only say one thing here. So, Mr. Vresk first entered the commission as a member of the HSS, at the time he was appointed again, he did not have his own club as he was told. I was then the parliamentary representative of the HSS only, as party president and parliamentary representative, consulted by the HDZ Club on the issue, and I also contacted Mr. Vresk and agreed that he would be a joint proposal, but since he could not have the HSS Club, he had no proposal to propose it, so the HDZ Club as a legitimate proposer who could do so. In order for this thing to be cleared up to the end, I suggest that people who speak like this now consult with Mr. Vresko, so he will confirm what I'm saying now, so he is from the ranks of the HSS, he was from the ranks of practically HSS and that's the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144401	Thank you. A colleague, Glasnović, you have reached out, Independent for Croatia, Club of Representatives, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144402	I'd like a break, please. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144403	You're getting a warning from your colleague, Beljak. ... Come on, be nice to your colleague, Belak. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144404	I know you're guarding these men of yours, the people of the liars, I know you're guarding them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144405	A fellow white man, What you say is more about you than about those you talk about, please leave if you want or stay here and stick to your rules of procedure, please. [[/Intruder Glasnović: That's right, I'd be looking for this one.]] Here's your colleague, Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144406	I'd ask for a break to save us from whining about these disguised jubilee and Marxists and other characters here, I'm sick of it, we've got more important jobs. No one's interested... The struggle of the character of some suspects. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144407	Well, well, that's a break. All right, we've still got a colleague, Glavasevic. Here you go, on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144408	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm also on behalf of the club looking for a break at this same point, so we can consult and I'd invite my colleagues and colleagues to consider how these party bickering sounds to our citizens who already have very low confidence in the institutions. I remind my colleagues and colleagues that when citizens lose confidence in the purity of election processes that usually the consequences are not beautiful, think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144409	It's okay to take a break. We'll continue at 13.50 minutes, please be there. It's 1:00 P.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take our seats so that we can proceed with the vote. Please take your seats so we can proceed with the vote. Therefore, the proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the debate is closed. I would like to stress that Article 7. The Law on the State Election Commission for the adoption of this Decision requires a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision to elect a member of the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 77 for and 18 against decisions made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Proposal for a Decision on a resolution on the selection of a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer is the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on a resolution on the selection of a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous, 92 votes for the decision taken in the text, as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer is the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. I find that unanimously with 93 votes in favour, a decision was made in the text as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment and termination of the term of office of Head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the SEECP Parliamentary Assembly. The proposer is the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, and the debate is closed, so I am voting on the proposal for that decision. I find it unanimous, 93 votes for the decision taken in the text as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment and termination of the term of office of Vice Governor of the CNB. The proposer is the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision to appoint and suspend the mandate of Vice Governor of the CNB. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 12 abstentions and 5 against decisions made in the text, as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144412	Thank you very much. At the 48th session held on 12 June 2019, the Honored President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Mandatno-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Vladimira Palfi Sincic on the conduct of the parliamentary duties addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 10 June 2019. The Commission has established that I am based on Article 14. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, the rest of Vladimiri Palfi Sincic's term of office began on 14 October 2016, and that the deputy deputy MP's office began to act as Dr.sc. Branimir Bunjac. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament stipulates that the stay of the parliamentary term cannot last less than 6 months and that the commission has determined that the conditions for the conduct of the parliamentary duties of Vladimira Palfi Sincic have been met. Under the cited article of the law, paragraph 3 lays down the term of office of Vladimira Palfi Sincic, it shall cease 8 days after a written statement has been made to the speaker of the assembly. Following the debate, the Commission shall be based on Article 14(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament made a unanimous decision with 8 votes for and proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of office and the termination of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative. On 18 June 2019, the term of office of representative Vladimira Palfi Sincic ceased. The representative's duties as deputy attorney ceases to be held by Dr.sc. Branimir Bunjac on 18 June 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144413	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, opening the debate. If not, I am closing the debate, so I am voting on a motion for a decision to suspend MP Vladimira Palfi Sincic's term of office and stop acting as deputy representative of Branimir Bunjc. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimously 87 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I would now like to ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144415	The President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 49th session held on 27 June 2019 a written notice from MP Ivan Vilibor Sinčić addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 19 June 2019 to accept the duties of the elected member in the European Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament has been prescribed that the representative, the representative in the Croatian Parliament, ceases his term of office on the date of the start of his term of office in the European Parliament. The commission found that Ivan Vilibor Sinčić was elected representative in the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament and that his term of office began on 14 October 2016. In view of the election held on 26 May 2019 for members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, Ivan Vilibor Sincic was elected a member of the European Parliament and that his term of office began on 2 July 2019, the commission found that the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term were met in accordance with the Law on elections of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament. Council Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 of 22 December 2006 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation’s association with the Agreement between the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation’s association with the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation’s association with the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation’s association with the implementation of the Schengen acquis (OJ L 298, 30.10.2009, p. 1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, unless there are preferential votes, determines Stanka Live Wall has appointed Damjan Vucelic as deputy representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Following the above, the Mandate-Immunity Commission established that the conditions for the termination of the term of office of Ivan Vilibor Sincic were met, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of Deputy Representative Damjan Vucelic. It unanimously reached a decision on the termination of the MP's term of office and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 2 July 2019, the term of office of representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic ends. On 2 July 2019, the post of deputy representative begins to act as Damjan Vucelic. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 49th session held on 27 June 2019 a written statement on the resignation of the deputy, the duty of representative Vladimira Palfi Sincic, sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 19 June 2019. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time on which he was elected should he resign. Member of the Commission The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, unless there are preferential votes, determines the political party that belonged to a representative whose term of office has ceased or rested at the time of the election. The Live Wall party has appointed Snježana Sabolek as deputy representative Vladimiri Palfi Sincic. Following the above, the Commission found that the resignation of Vladimira Palfi Sincic was subject to the law to lay down the conditions for the termination of her representative's term of office and the setting up of her deputy terms of office for the start of acting as representative of Snježana Sabolek. It unanimously proposes a decision to suspend the MP's term of office and start acting as deputy deputy. On 28 June 2019, MPs Vladimiri Palfi Sincic suspended. On 28 June 2019, the deputy deputy representative's office begins to act as Snježana Sabolek. And another one. At its 49th session held on 27 June 2019, the Croatian Parliament's mandate of immunity committee discussed the written notice of Representative Predrag Matic to begin his term in the European Parliament on 2 July 2019 and to suspend his duties as representative in the Croatian Parliament with that day. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the election of MPs from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament has been prescribed that the representative in the Croatian Parliament ceases his term of office on the date of the start of his term of office in the European Parliament. The commission found that Predrag Fred Matic was elected representative in the 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and that his parliamentary mandate began on 14 October 2016. In view of the election held on 26 May 2019 for members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, Predrag Fred Matic was elected a member of the European Parliament and that his term of office begins on 2 July 2019, the commission found that the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term were met in accordance with the Law on the elections of members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia. Member of the Commission The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, unless there are preferential votes, determines the political party that was represented at the time of the election by the representative whose term of office has ceased or rested. The SDP of Croatia has appointed Vinko Grgic as deputy representative of Predrag Fred Matic. Following the above, the MIP found that the conditions for the termination of Predrag Matic's parliamentary term as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative, Vinko Grgic, were met. The MIP is based on the article... point (a) is replaced by the following: The law on the election of representatives of the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament has reached a unanimous decision on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On 2 July 2019, Predrag MP Fred Matic's term of office ends. On 2 July 2019, the deputy deputy representative's duties begin to act as Vinko Grgic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144416	I thank my colleague, Tušek. I am now voting on the draft decisions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's vote. I find that the 88 votes voted unanimously for the decisions made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144417	We would now move to: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission; So please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mr. Zarko Tušek to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144418	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 50th session held on 10 July 2019 the written notice of the representatives of Dr Tomislav Sokol sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 28 June 2019 that he was elected representative to the European Parliament and that his term of office in the Croatian Parliament had ceased due to incompatibility. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the election of members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia has been laid down for the representative in the Croatian Parliament to be suspended on the date of the start of his term of office in the European Parliament. The commission found it to be Dr. Sc. Tomislav Sokol began acting as deputy representative of Jasen Mesic on 22 September 2017. HDZ based on article... point (b) is replaced by the following: The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been laid down by Mrs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Marija Mačković as deputy representative of Jasen Mesic. Since the elections held on 26 May 2019 were held for members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, Dr.sc. Tomislav Sokol was elected a member of the European Parliament and his term of office began on 2 July i.e. In 2019, the Commission established that the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term were met under the Law on the selection of members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia. Following the abovementioned Mandato-Immunity Trust, it was established that the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of Dr.sc were met. Tomislav Sokola as well as the conditions for the start of acting as representative of representative Marija Mačković. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 as regards the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and point (a) is replaced by the following: The Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament unanimously adopted the Decision on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy MP's representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On 2 July 2019, the term of office of the representatives of Dr.sc shall cease. Tomislav Sokola, based on Article 9(2) The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting as deputy MP, will begin acting by Marija Mackovic on the day when the Parliament determines the legal assumptions for the application of the replacement institute. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 50th session held on 10 July 2019 the written request of Agent Ivan Klarin on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duties addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the act of 2 July 2019. The Commission has established that, on the basis of Article 14(1), The Law on Elections in the Croatian Assembly of Representatives was launched on 1 October 2017 and that the deputy deputy deputy MP's duties began to act on 11 November 2017 by Marija Alfirev. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament stipulates that the stay of the parliamentary term cannot take less than 6 months and that the stay ends on the 8th day of the written statement to the President of the Parliament. The commission found that the legal requirements for the re-behaving of representative Ivan Klarin were met. Without discussion, it shall unanimously decide on the suspension of the term of office of the representative and the termination of the capacity of the deputy representative. On 10 July 2019, the term of office of representative Ivan Klarin ceased to rest, Marija Alfirev stopped acting as deputy deputy representative on 10 July 2019. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 50th session held on 10 July 2019 the written request of MP Lovra Kuščević on the re-behaving of the representative's duties to the President of the Croatian Parliament by act of 10 July 2019. The Commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term of office of Lovri Kuštević was due to the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament began on 14 October... The same day, Mato Frankovic began acting as deputy deputy MPs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the resignation of Mate Franković, Sanja Putica began acting on 9 June 2017 as deputy deputy representative of Lovra Kuščević. How is Lovro Kuščević in line with the article... paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request for the re-behaving of the office of President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal deadline of the Committee has established that the conditions laid down by law and the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Lovri Kuštević ceases for 8 days from the submission of the application. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same day, Sanja Putici, acting as deputy representative of Lovra Kuščević, ceases. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament proposes a dish, with 4 votes to, I apologize, 1 against, the Croatian Assembly for making a decision on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the termination of the office of deputy MP. On 18 July 2019, the term of office of MP Lovra Kuštević was suspended. Sanja Putica, on 18 July, ceases to act as deputy deputy representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144419	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and I open the debate and report for the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club, and pardon the individual debate, the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go. Error, mistake, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144420	Thank you very much. I see we're a little confused about Secretary of State Uhlir sitting here, so we're already at the second point, but I've come to the hearing and the Mandate-Immunity Commission. First, it is signifying that this debate is happening today. Usually, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has a report before, just before the vote, which suggests approximately the wish of HDZ that this debate is not happening at all and you see how it is today that people have neither been prepared nor applied for a very important debate that we have heard much about in the Croatian public and where we have a few representatives who go technically from place to place and cannot behave their duty at all, but we have a very important political topic, which is the arrival of a new representative of Kustević in the Croatian Parliament, who comes after what the Prime Minister or after he has agreed with Prime Minister Plenkovic to place his resignations as Minister and political secretary of HDZ because of non-transparent procedures, possible corruption or all that we have read for weeks and months I would say over the past period. So the HDZ message here is very simple, you can't be a minister, you can't be a HDZ political secretary, but you can be a parliamentary representative. It is, it is the message the HDZ sends us here, sent by Prime Minister Plenkovic, who tells us that it is essentially this home, the highest home in the Republic of Croatia which can bear to have someone burdened with such corruption affairs being and sitting in it, but cannot be a minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia and cannot be, and cannot be a political secretary of the HDZ. Now I'd like to hear it, I'd like to hear how colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ explain it, and why they think it's normal? Which is why gentlemen from the HDZ are here, although it is clear to everyone in Croatia except you and Prime Minister Plenkovic until yesterday, why Mr Kuščević essentially left the government of the Republic of Croatia and from the position of the HDZ political secretary, when it is most normal for you to join us here tomorrow at the assembly and that we ultimately show here by voting on it, of course we will and have our position in the SDP about it, but HDZ is obviously the most normal thing and thinks that such things should work. If you're intruding, you've made some mistakes, you've got some serious suspicion of corruption, you move away there so you don't harm HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic, and we'll put you in a place where you're less, less visible or where you can say tomorrow, that's an interesting, interesting explanation of the President of the Croatian Parliament, says he's not with what he's done there the worst, there are others who have had worse accusations than he is, under the investigations are USKOK of this one, and listen to the mandate is inalienable. So which is why if he is inalienable, well Mr. Kuščević can return alone, but which is why HDZ does not say that they are unacceptable to return, so let him return alone, and not to attempt to amnesty in this way, and we are essentially showing total undisciplinedness, or HDZ shows, although it is nothing new to the citizens, or anything that will surprise them, but it shows complete indiscipline in relation to the behaviour of the public authority. And on the other hand, what's going on right now is what's going on. The reconstruction of the government, which is essentially solely intended to wash the image and PR to Mr Plenkovic, in the last year of his term, to try to remove all these affairs that have accumulated all these months and years on HDZ and Vlad and to say that this is one new, washable HDZ, Plenkovic, the Government, however you wish to enter the last year of the term. Whatever. Well, that's not for sure for people to drink. So how do you think that by yesterday, Plenkovic was defending all these corruptions by the burdened minister, and today he will thank them, and here he will now say, and listen, we have done everything, we have got rid of those who were weighty and we are going now unsullied without any problems, without any burden to do the last year of our term for Croatia what we can or should do the right things for Croatia. Here, I'm already anticipating what Mr. Plenkovic is going to say and how he's going to set himself up. So it's not just the problem in those ministers, it's not just the problem in Mr Kustević, the problem is who brought them in, the problem is who protected them yesterday, the problem is who made this whole set of interests and who fails to solve it and who burdens the Republic of Croatia and in some ways shows that it is irrelevant to HDZ which and who manages Croatia while they are and while they have influence and what the government will look like and how all processes within Croatia will move. Otherwise, they'd mind being in the coalition and the HNS who betrayed their voters, and that would bother them, yes, so what's so funny to you, Mr. Curaj? You went to the elections there, you explained to people that there would be no HDZ in power and Plenkovic, we would fight him, etc., and tomorrow you supported him for 3 years thanks to you in power. It's normal for you... You've seen that, but I mean fine. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How would you say, you wouldn't want to be in that visor of yours, not if you're looking at it like that. So, on the other hand, he would be intruding the HDZ and such HNS, and Bandic would be intruding who knows the ways of certain people in his club and then supporting such a coalition and all these ministers intrusive and burdened with affairs. So it's not, it's not about standards, it's not about HDZ really wanting to change anything. This is saving naked skin. Here, it's the reconstruction of Prime Minister Plenkovic, the rescue of naked skin, the ship goes tons, cars go downhill, we've already come to 2% of SDP, SDP grows, HDZ falls, this is saving naked skin. We do not want to lose words in the HDZ presidential elections, we need to explain to everyone that they are not voting for Skora, but for HDZ we read about it in the newspapers how discussions are taking place at the HDZ presidency, we need to turn trends, of course there is also a voice of reason that says, I do not believe that it will help us too. And I don't think that's gonna help either. This PR action in the middle of the summer, one day we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're gonna, uh, we're So one day we'll meet here, we'll pass five committees and vote at 12. It's really that powerful session, and it's going to be a lot of work for those MPs who are going to vote here for the new ministers on that day. Just to save the prime minister and government in a year's term. So what wouldn't be fairer if you heard what the people want and what the people think, if you were so good at elections, if they had confidence in the President of the Government of Plenkovic our fellow citizens, so you wouldn't have any problem if you weren't afraid, and you said that all the time that you weren't afraid of a choice, so go to the elections. Come out is no problem, so it would be fairest to Croatian citizens that they give their own court and say what they think about corruption affairs that burden this government. This is the most corrupt government Croatia has had, the most corrupt government since the 1990s, and the competition is extremely strong if we remember Sanader, if we remember the conversion and privatisation of the '90s, the incredible competition, but the gold medal relations Plenkovic's government, the gold medal, the second one would still be given for conversion and privatisation in the 1990s, and only the third bronze medal would be given to Sanader. Then you know how much weight is and what the problem is essentially today at work in the Republic of Croatia. We have the most corrupt government since the '90s, and Prime Minister Plenkovic will drown everything to get another year's term. And it's his only action and it's his only wish and it's the only intensity of this reconstruction. No better life of citizens, no, no standard of governance of Croatia, no honesty, no justice, no solidarity, nothing. Just to keep HDZ alive for another year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144421	Thank you. Of course I can't participate in the discussion from this place, but I have to correct one inaccuracy that you said right away at the beginning, which is that it wasn't known that there was going to be a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission, it was announced yesterday afternoon that today will be today morning. Therefore, it is incorrect that it was not known that this point would be on the agenda. Anyway, we have a few replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144422	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's colleague Maras, I guess we had a new, new way of discussing it means the Mandate-Immunity Commission means replacements, etc. And that's some new part of this assembly, so you told me about the principles, so I remember some of the principles of you as SDP minister, so when Milanovic replaces the former finance minister for crime in pre-fashion deals, he returns to the assembly, but it wasn't enough, then you kicked him out of the party. So when one Jovanovic was replaced for having hired himself as a minister in one staged competition, he returned to the assembly, and Rajko Ostojic returned to the assembly and everything was normal. Those are the principles of the SDP. Why? Because they're always allowed everything no one else can be here. The legal right to win your term, to be able to return to your place in your assembly or in any part of this assembly, to challenge in this way with one debate, so it's really a shame, knowing what you did and why it was all allowed to your [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Ministers and your MPs. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144423	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144424	Thank you very much. Otherwise, we always hear a number of incorrect facts from colleagues, I just have to correct it now, so counterpart Jovanovic did not leave the government for this reason you said but left the government later than that and there was a change. On the other hand, my colleague Linic left the party, this one so I don't even know what the connection is with this, so you're, you're still supporting this one with that Mr Linic didn't even leave the government because of pre-fashion deals. So he's still, that law is still in force in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if you live in Croatia, if you do legislation, if you know that this law is still in force. If you know why you're even talking. ... So speak, you have quarreled with yourselves. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You had a fight with yourself, man. You say he's gone and HDZ still supports the law. ... No one threw him out, the SDP man left alone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144425	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Plazonic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144426	Comrade Maras, I understand your need to teach and moralise in the Croatian Parliament, but here you reminded us actually and forced us to remind ourselves of your leadership of a significant ministry when thousands of economic operators had to put the key in lockup for your good governance and ministry leadership. You are sitting in the Croatian Assembly today for the prize. Remember what you said earlier about Mr Kuštević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144427	The answer of the esteemed representative of Mars.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144428	My colleague Plazonic, so I must admit that, first of all, I should say that as soon as it comes to my colleague Linic being expelled from the SDP, so that he does not remain unsettled, but he is not expelled because of what he said by his colleague, Boric. But as far as this goes, I mean, I really don't understand how you found a link between me and the closure of thousands of economic operators and that it's like my credit. I mean, that's how I can say that the credit is yours, which I know what Sanader robbed FIMI MEDIU, through FIMI MEDIU money from this. I really don't understand, with it being your fault because as HDZ, you clapped, clapped and chose Sanader. So you've been clapping and choosing Sanader but this has nothing to do with me. So it's the economic trends and trends that HDZ left in 2011. ... Yeah, well, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You lost the election, you left a minus in the state budget, and the economic situation was what it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144429	Comrade Maras, you've exceeded your time, come sit down and let others speak. The next replica is the esteemed MPs Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144430	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In the second part of your debate, you also spoke about the reconstruction of the government that we have the opportunity to read about in the paper. So Prime Minister Plenkovic decided to surround himself with worse and worse than himself. When you surround yourself like that, they become difficult for you but he decided to surround himself where he would be in order to surface much better, in order to show up European because of the picture he has in the EU but then they become a weight around your leg and then all of a sudden you have to remove those weights. So it's going to be very interesting to see what it's going to be like to rebuild the government. But it was also very interesting to see how he represented the interests of the Republic of Croatia when they were, when he was a negotiator regarding the new EU composition, and the first thing was the interest of Plenkovic, and then he was the second perhaps interest of the HDZ and then Croatia is somewhere in third place and so he acts as prime minister all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144431	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144432	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Plenkovic's greatest crime is that he brought all these people. So you can't just one move of feathers remove responsibility and your 5.6 ministers who are burdened with corruption affairs will wash your cheek and your work as Prime Minister. It's normal if people leave the government and so far they've gone and now they're going to be gone another 4.5, then of course the question is, what's the one who chose them at the beginning? So he was coming to the Croatian Parliament to assure us that these are the best people to have him standing behind them and until yesterday he stood behind Kuštević and who knows who else we will hear will change now. So it can't be priced and Croatia can't be the hostage of Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ staying another year in power. We're gonna lose another year and nothing's gonna change.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144433	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144434	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, we're going to get a parliamentary representative here who, as minister, has euthanized the right to a referendum. Perhaps you disagreed with the referendum initiative, but it is less important otherwise that the man who euthanized the referendum comes to us as a colleague. It was chosen by the people, with how many votes I don't know, but apparently there is a fear that what the people decided, their initiative is a major obstacle to the people of HDZ and Lovri Kustevic was because he spit out 40,000 people he didn't show to, 400 thousand people, calling for 40,000 invalid signatures that he never showed us in the Parliament or proved after our requests. And that's what HDZ colleagues accepted. So he's nothing new. All those who supported him at the time are the same as Lovro Kuščević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144435	The answer of the esteemed representative of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144436	Thank you very much. As far as Kuštević is concerned, he is concerned with the credibility of what he has done with the story. So he took responsibility for what he did as an official, most of all in Brač. And there's an adaptation story, so he resigns, comes to the Parliament because he has the right to because he's his mandate, so he got it in the elections but the problem with Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ who speak, you can't be a minister, you can't be HDZ's political secretary, but you can, there's no problem. Why it's so hard to say that it's also incompatible with an honorary representation duty that you did it on Brač, that that's how you acquired enormous property, the minister you can't be and you can't represent. That's all we wanted to hear, maybe we hear from someone, from a teammate from HDZ during this debate. I'm giving them a chance. I'm giving them a chance to say it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144437	Thank you. Next Individual Discussion He will be a respected representative. [[I'm giving them a chance, I'm giving them a chance...]] Mark Sladolev, here's your colleague, Sladolev. [[...to say and remove any suspicion, any suspicion...]] Comrade Maras, come on, don't. All the time, doing the same thing that you're doing so much over time, you're doing it on purpose, it's not right, it's not right for other colleagues' visas,... [[Invader:...yes, that he stands behind such unholy behavior]] It's not for a few seconds, it's not for a few seconds, and if the others can stick to the Rules of Procedure, so can you. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, it was just a matter of seconds, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144440	The 238th article was injured. Comrade Reiner, I would ask you here and warn you not to treat MPs in a humiliating way with your records and remarks. So, you're neither here nor the one who's going to write a mess of who's supposed to behave, you're giving traits to the MPs, but you're here to run a session. So, your remarks don't interest me at all and stop giving them away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144441	I'm here to run a session according to the Rules of Procedure, and you're breaking it on purpose and every so much, I'm not, I'm not giving you any warning about it, but now I'm gonna start giving Okay, okay. [[Intruder: Feel free to give]] Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, so before us is the appointment of Lovre Kuščević in HS and I would not even talk about the name here. person, I would like to talk about the function and the message that the Government and Prime Minister Plenkovic are sending us with this appointment. [[Intruder Reiner: that you can finally speak]] So, this is Prime Minister Plenkovic's political decision, we can also say Prime Minister Plenkovic's staff decision, but here in HS we also have the right to send our political messages, express our position whether it is acceptable for us or not. Of course, therefore, the ruling majority will vote, so he will be a parliamentary representative in HS and right in that Croatian National Assembly in which he broke the will of the citizens, 400,000 citizens who signed for the referendum on the electoral law. So, the paradox is that the minister of the administration who prioritized himself before the signatures, so before the referendum itself set against the referendum, because he was a national representative of those people who had just signed for the referendum. What is paradoxically likely to have been signed by people for this Electoral Law perhaps who voted for it, even preferentially, and it is now becoming their parliamentary representative. It is the paradox of this appointment, so I also think that in the opposition we should give a political message that it is unacceptable for us, that the message to Croatian citizens is bad, that it also in some way demeans the function of the parliamentary representative, but it is the will of the president of the HDZ, or the prime minister who, because of this political decision, will bear responsibility with his constituents. So here we are as parliamentary representatives, so very often characterized as people who don't do anything, who get big salaries, which are good, and now this way, in this way to the prime minister's decision, this assemblyal HS is degraded to the limit because in some way HS becomes a correctional home. So, we're staying at the club and it's personally unacceptable to me because I was faced with colleagues and Bull and Grmo before the Ministry of Administration when we were just looking for that 40,000 so-called. the wrong signatures where even the minister wouldn't take us in, well that's his other thing, so the relationship with the MPs will now be the same to us, so we will now be political rivals, so we will often mention it to him in the parliamentary debates, but we have therefore met with his ministry and we have seen in that ministry that there is no will to show us those 40,000 so-called. the invalid signatures, and here we considered then, but then disputed that he could be a minister, later these affairs about the re-use of land and that further strengthened our decision and now the man who is burdened with new affairs, but who has actually violated the people's will, since he is a national representative. At MOST, we find it unacceptable and we want to send the political will that Croatian citizens did not deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144443	We have a replica of the respected representative of Snow White Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144444	Dear Vice President, honourable MPs, every day I usually listen, a few days I'm here, but every day I listen to who had more affairs, given it to HDZ and SDP, I'd say it first, and secondly, I understand that Mr. Lovro has the right to his mandate, that the people, as we say, chose him, but I'll read you people's opinions right now. So they think like this, HS becomes a correctional home for ministers, sending us a message. Kuščević returns to HS and immediately goes on 30.000,00 kn paid vacation. Lovro Kuščević won't have to come to HS for a single day during the summer break, he'll get a few thousand less than he got when he was a minister, but that's a few thousand kunas less than he had as a minister, but that month's difference the former minister will make up in one day for renting a villa on Brac that rents for 2.500,00 kn It's a message from the people. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144445	...representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144446	Dear colleagues, so I was talking about the referendum, so you in the Living Wall also had a referendum on the financing of political parties and you probably know that it's a very difficult job to collect so many signatures. So, people have been collecting signatures for days to change the electoral law, and when you expect that in fact, people's representatives and people who are ministers will accept the will of citizens, then you get it by erasing the floor with such an initiative and I say, it's unacceptable for me, so in that direction why it should be a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144447	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144448	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a debate here on whether or not it is moral for Lovro Kuščević, as the former minister of the administration who was caught with his fingers in the jam, after being forced by both the media and the opposition because he was an opposition impeachment, but also part of the ruling coalition, we know that Mr. Pupovac, minorities, HNS conditioned the departure of the minister and that they clearly communicated to the Prime Minister that if there was an impeachment vote, they would vote for the impeachmentation of Minister Kusčević. And he's after all the pressure, making coalition partners, which media, which clarity, which opposition, must leave the minister's post. And I see that my colleagues from HDZ, I see a fellow Shucker there, I see other colleagues resenting why in the first place a debate was opened about whether a man whose mandate it is, means who has the right to consume that mandate, is this, at all, whether this debate, don't be a nervous colleague Shucker, let me explain what I meant to say, I'm not in any way malicious, or did I call you maliciously, so you're asking whether this debate at all means the decision that Lovro Kuščević means his term is reconsuming, whether it's necessary in HS at all. I agree with you. I believe that Lovro Kuščević has the right to his mandate, but another question opens here. If Lovro Kuščević is unacceptable to being a secretary of a political party called the Croatian Democratic Community, if it is unacceptable to be a minister in the government, both HDZ and partners, is Lovro Kuščević unacceptable to be a member of the HDZ Club in HS? If you find it unacceptable to be your party secretary, if you find it unacceptable to be your minister, then it would make sense that it would be unacceptable to be a member of your club. And the good question was asked by a colleague of Sladolev or already who had in the debate or I don't know, colleague Maras, will you show yourself by the end of this debate whether it is acceptable for you to have Lovre Kuščević as a member of your club of MPs? That's the real question. No one can stop him from consummating his term of office. Even if HDZ says we don't want it about our club, Lovro Kuščević has the right to consume his mandate. But would you then send one message that such behavior is unacceptable, that such fraud is unacceptable, that the fact that it means how many of our citizens, Mr. Shucker, has some kind of land on our coast, on our coast that may not be built? But they didn't have the opportunity to buy land or own land from their neighbor for some small money and then repurpose it and now have it, gold it and have one great value. Is that acceptable to you or is that unacceptable to you? Is it acceptable to you that what my colleague Sladolev is talking about, that it's simply the fact that now it's showing that we knew that we had stolen the referendum? That there were 40,000 invalid signatures, and when we asked the minister here to show us those 40,000 invalid signatures, he said come to the ministry in the morning. We're here at 9:00 or I don't know how long it's been, the Ministry, he's gone, the secretary of state and ministry officials have welcomed us, and they haven't shown us anything. To tell us as later we'll deliver it. You know what happened? Secretary of State Josipa Rimac came to our club the same day and delivered our signatures for the referendum. And now you're asking us to tell a man who's been messing with the land, who's been messing with the real estate, we believe he hasn't been messing with the referendum. And it's okay for him to be your member of your club representative. And worst of all, you don't allow a debate about it. So you've been dejected since the beginning of this debate, why are we even discussing this issue, and that's what's problematic. If you already want to set certain ethical standards and say it is not acceptable for Lovro Kuščević to be Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is not acceptable for him to be the secretary of our party, then it is not acceptable for him to be a member of your Club of Representatives and to ask for your indication of whether it is acceptable for you to be a member of your club. Is it acceptable for you to say that someone who has doubts about certain and corrupt activities, but definitely the whole public agrees about it, even if there are no corrupt actions that are completely immoral, means that it is completely immoral, is it acceptable for you to be part of your club? These are the questions we are asking and expect to be answered by Prime Minister Plenkovic and of which you are part of this club of representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144449	Thank you very much. Again, of course, I can't go from this place to the debate, and I don't want to, but I have to correct you. No one, as far as I heard from the speakers, was reluctant to put it into debate, I opened the debate, and it had to come to debate, and that is, to debate. I didn't hear that anyone had any object to it and if they had an object, I'd tell him he had no right to that facility, right? What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144450	So Article 238 was injured, he would ask that as chairman, you listen to a transcript of the presentation of fellow Boric, who said in his statement that it was never discussed whether a representative would consume or not to consume his mandate. So it was part of the debate here and it's not right that you're representing something that's incorrect what counterpart Boric said from the HDZ Club of Representatives said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144451	Okay, well, of course we can argue about that, but we're not going to argue right now, but we have a few replicas on your exhibit, the respected representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144452	Comrade Grumo, you are active and you could even say a camp representative who has special and good discussions, so I want to help you out a little bit. It seems to me that in this debate everything relied on the wrong premise. So, you're starting from that, you're saying that Mr. Kuščević's HDZ is not as good as a political secretary and is not as good as a minister to them. Where did you get that? When did the HDZ show up about this? As far as I know, Lovro Kuščević has given his mandate at his disposal or resigned, he is not removed, so he returns to the Croatian Parliament by his will. So, Mr. Kuščević's HDZ is a good and political secretary and minister, and then he is a good representative and therefore I ask you to be careful when you present such objects at the expense of our HDZ colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144453	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144454	Thank you, dear colleague. So I deliberately went with such a question because HDZ did not show at all about Lovra Kuštević, about what happened around these scams, except after the pressure of coalition partners he himself offered to resign and said he did not want to be a burden to this government. I want to hear from my colleagues from HDZ what their position on the behaviour of Lovra Kuščević while he was the head of the municipality and while he was lurking behind the land is acceptable to them or not acceptable to them and whether such a man wants to be a diocese of their club or not. I think the public has a right and we haven't had a chance to hear it yet, and that's why I went on purpose with these settings that seem wrong at first but they're not guilty because we haven't heard the HDZ attitude, I want to hear it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144455	The next replica is the respected representative of Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144456	Despite all the problems you have in your own club, you have begun to deal with the HDZ club and staffing within the HDZ. I don't think that's necessary, we have enough knowledge, we have enough brains and we know how to put things inside our club, take care of your club. A short while ago, a colleague of Sladolev said that the Parliament is becoming a correctional home for some ministers. Have we forgotten that when three or two of the three ministers who left the government from your ranks came to this very home? Why are we so short-minded? It is the right for Mr Kuštević to consume the mandate he won in the parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144457	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144458	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, apparently, my colleague didn't listen to my presentation at all, and I was talking about Mr. Kuščević having the right to consume his mandate and I asked you a question as to whether it was acceptable for you to have this man part of your club that you didn't answer. You're an acceptable hoax. I don't know what the mention of MOST ministers was, so these people didn't have any affairs, so they were transferred to the government and returned to the Croatian Parliament. Some did not even consume their mandate until the end, they gave up on him but what I mean is, don't worry about MOST, as far as you know, and as smart as you are now 1,000 people in Mostar, your sister party whose policy you have supported, is Scandicating "the thieves, thieves". 1,000 people in Mostar, that's how smart you are and what you think you don't have a problem with right now, you're going to have problems with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144459	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144460	Thank you very much. Here I am, not going to look back at the great concern and the chairman here in the Parliament, Mr. Reiner, and not the great concern about the club MOST from HDZ, but I will look back at what we fellow MPs have to talk about here. I am a parliamentary representative, and I will not look back on what I am forbidden to say for two days, because I only asked Lovra Kuštević to show us the 40,000 signatures to the MPs. I know the HDZ doesn't respond to a system change because it was much more important for us to discuss it for three months. how A. Mikulić, lex Mikulić become head of inspection. And my colleague Plazonic, if it hadn't been for that debate, for 40 days you wouldn't be a parliamentary representative now. It's just a matter of interest, it's not what my colleague Grmoy said about the state of the Mostar aluminum and the 1,000 people who lost their jobs. It is not that interest between me that the basic message, which I want to know, Lovro Kuščević at the head of the ministry is a national referendum, has violated the Constitution, the first article of the Constitution, the government comes from the will of the people and the people has the right to decide by direct democracy i.e. in a referendum. It's the biggest pain. His term of office whether he won 2,000 votes or won 400, 500 votes as Parliament's president less than in my village, counterpart Plazonic, I'm sorry what you're leaving because I wanted you to know the truth that we're simply dealing with primary matters, I see you've replicated my colleagues. So, we've been dealing with primary matters, and the Parliament has alienated the mandate, the people's will of the referendum. So never did Minister Lovro Kuščević show us, as a graver of the referendum, direct democracy and violation of the Constitution, he never showed us the meaning of the 40,000 invalid signatures he signed, which means that he has 400 thousand people trampled. Do you get it, 400 thousand signatures? It's not easy in 15 days to collect 400,000 signatures and crush the will of the people. If such people suit you at the club, it has proved to be a vote on this referendum in this House. I think we're undoing democracy, whether our colleagues agree with the initiative or disagree. If the signatures were collected, we had no other way. But because of my insistence and demand for these signatures, I've been told in the Parliament by the strictest commercial measure ever in history that I've been banned from speaking in the Parliament for two days. Two days. And we never got those 40,000 signatures from Minister Lovra Kuštević, no matter what we fellow representatives from my club ask for signatures not to show us, let's see what the problem is in those 40,000 signatures. It doesn't matter... That initiative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who collected those signatures? Is it gathering on behalf of the People to decide or collect some other association and regardless of the worldview, if the signatures were collected, the referendum had to be carried out and because we don't respect the will of the majority, the good fellow Grumoja said everything, because we don't respect the will of the majority, means the will, not the majority, but the 400 thousand signatures, to decide most of what election law will be, we have problems today. Today we have such an assessment according to our people, according to the Parliament, and here is Andrej Plenkovic and Lovro Kuščević. So imagine you, which is it, so here's a colleague from HDZ, here I see a colleague from the representatives of the Croats from BiH. Because of this behavior, the personnel, the way the law is passed, we have problems in Mostar today. Instead of investing in the company, as co-owners of the 12% company, these people are left to themselves and today are protesting right in front of the HDZ break. Those who were faithful to HDZ, but the company was destroyed, the machines were destroyed, the future of Mostar was destroyed, the development was destroyed. For what? Because of this behavior. And Lovro Kuščević is now 2,000 or not, when the President of the Parliament can be Gordan Jandrokovic who won 400, 500 votes, the more I got in my village, which is a small village relatively in the Cetina region of Sinj, when it can be the President of the Parliament, then it can be anything. For what? Because we don't respect the choice of representatives by name and by name and that we have legitimacy but by how the party's president draws up a list, so it has to be. That's why I think we colleagues all, no matter what club we're from, which worldview, which political option, the way we think, I don't think we should hit a referendum. And on the re-use of land, there is no Lovre Kuščević but in all of Dalmatia, agricultural land has been transformed into building land, where huge profits have been generated. And in my Sinj, the people who bought agricultural land for the kuna, they re-purposed after a few months and became rich people overnight. Overnight. Lovre Kuščević, it has now come out because of Lovra Kuščević. Buy land from neighbors and after a few months it rescheduled and instead of 50 thousand kuna get profits from several or 10 million kunas or a few million. Our maritime well-being, so if you remember the Golden War so on Brač, so concessions, it's huge, huge money is being made, mostly by the sea and not all have the same luck to re-purpose their agricultural land. She had no luck with Lovra Kuštević's neighbor who bought his Mrs. For 50 thousand kunas of land, to suddenly overnight be 3, 4, 5, 10, 15 or 30 million kuna. But that woman sold it for 50 grand, his neighbor's land, and now it's become that way. And if I don't talk about port management, port administrations, it's huge, Dalmatia's huge money is being drawn mainly for campaigns paid out of these funds and that's why it's big, it's a big problem for HDZ if someone shows up to be a candidate for mayor by accident, so it could jeopardize or something. That's a huge problem. Down is a bag, Zagreb is lost. And this is nothing new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144461	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The message is simple. The minister, former Minister Lovro Kuscevic, for punishment must come to the parliament. So, to cross this side of St. John's Square. Mark on this side. Well, respected citizens, we see that our political system has turned completely upside down, that's what we in the party change Croatia all the time. It is now shown that real power is the highest form of government that is executive power, not legislative authority. However, there should be no exaggeration in this Mr. Kuštević. He, I mean, as far as HDZ is concerned, is a man who's done everything he needs to do. Many, too, other important parties wish they had such a faithful member of their party. What was he doing? He covered everything. There comes this referendum, the Lovro problem solves, the Lovro Numbers, cannot pass the referendum. He wants this second referendum, Lovro solves this and Lovro does what he has to do again. And not only that, but the man has taken over all the burden of his party president and the Prime Minister who has not replaced him, but he has said let go, I will take it upon myself. Don't let it rock you, I'll come back here, I'll stand here in Parliament for everything, I'll be there. So that's the phenomenon we know from the former system,... so, however, all of this in Croatia became, of course, a long time ago nakarad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One position is being changed with the other, and that's how it goes, and this government is only dealing with affairs, so we see another Minister Zalac, Mr Tolusic, but that's not how they pushed to get to HS, but they continue in the ones where they can't defend themselves, but Mr Kuščević still comes here, so that's how our political system works. However, what is grotesque in this whole story that the coalition partner, it is the Croatian People's Party, that they are careful to set up some ultimatum as it will no longer be to watch this HDZ what it is doing, they may not be in the coalition anymore if they do not throw Kuštević out of the government and if they don't send him away I don't know where, or perhaps even in HS. You see, that's the move of a drowned man who really is grotesque to the public trying to show that he has any political and that human morality and sets even some ultimatum to the party president. Prime Minister Plenkovic in Brussels says that you people know if I can't stand anything organically, it's that someone is giving me an ultimatum, he's obviously scared to death of this HNS ultimatum. However, as it turns out, there is impotence and this Mr. Plenkovic who comes here so boastfully, underestimating us, with us, he, in this case, remember how MOST's father literally kicked out of the government with a short move, but now he no longer has the courage to, let's say, wash it out in a few seconds, no courage, he has no courage, and then the HDZs see it themselves that their party president and prime minister have no courage to count. And why is there no courage? Because if the HNS is forced out, then it has to work with Bandic's chips, no one really knows how many parties, strangers, individuals, who do everything in this government. Respected citizens could talk about this and talk for a long time, far and wide, but it's all a circus, it's all what led us to this situation in the Republic of Croatia that the government is not dealing with real problems, it doesn't solve problems, it doesn't make decisions, HDZ and this ruling team they turn off lights on the industry in the Republic of Croatia, in industrial enterprises from shipyards, etc., here their sister party participates in shutting down another industrial plant in Mostar where over 900 people work, they have the same pattern, they don't like industry, they don't like to deal with economic issues you know, they like tourism, they love where something fast turns, where it doesn't have to work hard and invest, and that's why here members of the HDZ ruling coalition almost don't, and those who sit around like to understand it all. But what we all need is respected citizens, we all have one question together, one dilemma, if we're going to keep watching this, this circus, this circus, this one horror on the political scene, we're going to be dealing with affairs, whether the country is going to go to waste, and people are going to move out and support this situation, or you're going to be mass, or we're going to go to elections, especially those 45% of the people who don't go to elections, so you people who don't think you're going to get revenge on those who are in power, that they're not worthy of your coming to the polls, I understand that because they're 20 years old. speak and speak, so you can't sort out a fellow citizen like that, you can't do anything with your own voice, and you can see for 20 years. When someone tells someone that they can't, that his voice doesn't mean anything, he created 45% of the citizens who think that their voice individually means nothing. All of you who don't go to the election, you're actually giving a double vote to these people to remain in power. If you won't do it for yourself, please do it for your children, because of your grandchildren, because if you don't go to elections, you won't open the road, but you'll open the freeway that those who are so far in this way means Aferrasic, in any other way to manage, that they don't actually lead, to lead the country to ruin. That's why I'm calling you, the real cause for this speech is an invitation to the election, a mass invitation to the election. You are the most powerful of the day when elections, when you need to circle in those few seconds, all power is in your hand, please be aware of that because we here individually in HS do not have us enough, we need your hands to mess up this political swim, to open all the windows and doors of the Republic, that what is not right to simply blow off and finally start working properly. In that sense, the HS must also take the place that belongs to it because this is not a high home as some people here call it, one speak, and the other think, this is yet to become a high home, the government must be the maid of this government, here or you citizens, and then put the whole situation together. Someone's gonna think of you and say the good thing you're saying, I think no matter how we change it, so we can't, so you see they're trying to, so they leave, etc. I repeat, it's all a secret that citizens who don't go out to the elections, please don't think that your voice is useless, and you can't change anything. Last time the parliamentary elections didn't go to 1,600 000 people, I repeat, 1,600 000 people, all those who didn't go to the polls, they practically voted for what we have today. Therefore, do not expect changes that will come outside of Croatia, outside of you, by coming to the elections you become a change, we become a change and I invite you together to change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144463	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate, I'm sorry, we have one replica, a respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144464	So your mouth is full of aluminum and Aluminium problems, as well as some of the colleagues I have had here to listen to the debate on this agenda point, please do not conduct political accounts here in Croatia through the back of so Croats in BiH. When the debate was here on the position of the Croatian people in BiH, then some who today are pouring crocodile tears over Aluminium came out of the hall and did not want to make a statement at all, and in fact the problem of Aluminium was the reflection of Croatia's inequality in BiH and the Bosnian-Herzegovic political paradox because the federal government in which the majority of Bosniaks were dominated, so the electricity was delivered by less than 50 MWh, so Arcegometal, so the company private owned in Zenica, while at the same time it was almost 50% owned by the same government so it had to buy electricity from over 78 MWh, so we are fighting for Croatia's equality, then we will be easier to save Croatian economic operators in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144465	My colleague Ljubic, this wasn't a theme, so you're this one. No, no, but that's not what my colleague Lovrinović mentioned, is it, that unfortunately some colleagues mentioned it, in a completely wrong context, and not in the context of what these topics are supposed to be talking about, is it? [[/Intruder: How isn't the topic?]] Here's a colleague of Lovrinovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's because I've been called and I want to answer my colleague Ljubic, a colleague of Ljubic how it is out of great concern for the Croats in BiH where I came from in central Bosnia, so how come you never put the Aluminium problem on the government's agenda, why didn't you put it on the agenda because 12% is part of Croatia. We talk about it, you see here people don't know about it, some people don't know anything. So tell us how much HEP has subsidized exports of that energy so far, why it is popularly said Sarajevo against it, etc. So if you're so worried about why you've never raised that question, then we little Croats would try to help solve that problem. So I told you last time, the problem is that we have certified representatives of the Croats from BiH to Zagreb, and these are all other small Croats. That's why it's important for us to work things out and just see to see traces.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144467	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144468	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can approach the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.03 HOURS]] We will begin with the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the representative's term of office, Tomislav Sokol, and the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Maria Mačković. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision to suspend the parliamentary term of office, Dr.sc. Tomislav Sokola and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative of Marija Mačković. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous, 105 votes for the decision taken as we propose the Mandate-Immunity Commission and we will join in giving the oath of attorney Maria Mačković. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Seven. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text The appointed representative stands up and pronounces the word “I swear”. Now I'm going to read the text of the oath. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work with the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Marija Mačković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144469	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-14-0.u144470	Congratulations, MPs... And I wish her much success in carrying out this honorable and responsible duty. [[Applause.]] Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Ivan Klarin and the termination of the post of deputy deputy representative Marija Alfirev. The debate is closed, and I am voting on the proposal for a decision. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 113 votes in favour, a decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Since MP Ivan Klarin has already sworn an oath, he has no need to do so and I congratulate him on his return to the benches. Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Lovra Kuščević and the termination of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative Sanja Putice. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the motion for a decision to suspend the term of office of MP Lovra Kustević and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative Sanja Putica. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for, 2 abstentions and 5 against decisions made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
