ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146138	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. The Law on Police Affairs and Powers was adopted in 2009 and amended and amended in 2014. The adoption of such a regulated law was a change in the concept that in one place the Police Act norms all relevant issues related to organisation, treatment, accountability and working legal status of police. The matter, which was singled out of the Police Law in 2009, concerned a separate normative arrangement of police affairs and powers. This approach was followed by arrangements that exist in other European countries as well as the need for police powers to be fully normised in one law because the amendment of the law preceded a significant and thorough reform of the criminal procedure which was given its sentence in the new Criminal Procedure Act. In particular, provisions on police powers that were then partially normised and in criminal proceedings had to be regulated in this new law. The need to amend the Law on Police Affairs and Powers emerged in 2014 with the aim of removing certain normative irregularities, harmonising with other regulations, which have been amended in the meantime, and the need for harmonisation with EU documents and acquis. At this point, therefore, for this Final Bill which is before you the amendment and the amendment occurs primarily because of the alignment with amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act which entered into force in 2017 and the need for clearer normised individual powers which have been established in practice that there are ambiguities as well as the introduction of some new normative solutions governing police conduct and harmonizes with areas in other sciences or technical improvements, or the removal of certain legal gaps. The need to amend and supplement the Law concerns the harmonisation of the provisions on police treatment with the so-called Amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure which significantly amended the conduct of the police during the reconnaissance of criminal offences by transposing, in our system, the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and victimisation of victims of criminal offences and the replacement of the Council Framework Decision, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right to access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and the procedure on the basis of a European arrest warrant and the right to inform third parties in the event of confiscation of freedom and communication with third parties and consular bodies, both at the end and the Directive of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confisation of property benefit cases obtained by criminal acts in the EU. All this has a significant impact on certain police powers and there is a need for their harmonisation in this law. The relevant provision of Article 11b of the Law, which provides that investigators carrying out evidence activities, studies must have completed pre-graduate and graduate university studies or integrated pre-graduate and graduate studies or specialist graduate studies of appropriate professions depending on a particular type of criminality and have at least 5 years of working experience on criminal activities. The practical application of this provision has shown significant limitations and its non-life since according to the current structure, the police departments in particular police administrations and police stations have therefore not systemised jobs with the above mentioned conditions, which is why police officers in the good part of the establishment units are not able to carry out these demonstrations. As a result, these circumstances make it very difficult for the dynamics of carrying out criminal research and make it impossible for quality and experienced police officers without those who do not therefore have these conditions to carry out these evidence actions. The proposed amendment to which an investigator could be a police officer with the least personal police calling of police sergeants would significantly increase the number of investigators and the applicant holds that such an amendment would contribute to the greater effectiveness and dynamicity of the conduct of criminal research. Given the changes to the 2017 Criminal Procedure Act, the need for harmonisation of the law is also indicated in relation to the behaviour of the suspects. In fact, the provisions of the applicable law provide for the possibility that the police have the right to call and interrogate the suspect. The amendments and additions to the Code on Criminal Procedures define the overall conduct of the suspects through Articles 208 to 208b. Next thing you need to delete Article 11f. This applicable Law on Police Affairs and Powers, since it is therefore in a particular conflict with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Further harmonisation of this law has been carried out in view of the Law on Juvenile Courts, so where certain articles such as Article 18(1) and Article 38(1) are so far referred to as ‘specially qualified police officer’ further specify the addition of the word ‘for young people’, so police officers, especially youth police officers. We hold that by making such a more precise definition and by making it more clear that special trained and additionally educated youth police officers are in charge of the use of police powers towards minors, young adults in matters of health protection, development, education, and criminal legal protection of children and young people will be given an even stronger emphasis on the obligation of particularly careful access to these particularly vulnerable groups. I would refer very briefly to the changes in individual solutions in certain police powers. Thus, this law provides for the possibility of verifying the identity of a person and taking into account the information system of the MUP, given that the technical means available to the police on the ground enables an insight into the information system of the MUP, as well as an insight into the photo and personal data of the person whose identity is being verified, and thus we hold that it will facilitate and speed up police behaviour. Furthermore, the conditions under which a person suspected of committing an offence is established are more clearly laid down. Namely, the applicable legal solution to determine identity is prescribed for the perpetrator of a criminal offence that is being prosecuted under official duty, and since certain situations set out in the Infringement Act may also deprive the perpetrator of the offence of freedom, the need for the identity to also be determined by the persons to whom such measure applies. Certain amendments are also provided for the police authority to enter a foreign home regulated by Article 74 of the applicable law. In fact, entering someone else's home is always one, one police authority that needs to be very carefully and with a measure of application, indeed, in that taxful saying of the reasons set out in the law and could not be interpreted too widely, but there was a need to include in the law the reason for the person's death. It's something that happens quite often in police treatment, that neighbors or relatives say that a certain person doesn't appear from the apartment for a long time, to touch some strange sounds or smell, and in that case, the police had no possibility of entering another person's home and in the event of a person's death, so we're also bringing in the possibility that the police in such cases could enter another person's home. Then, we also prescribe the possibility and conditions under which police may use another vehicle as a means of stopping the vehicle, since in practice it is observed that the use of the vehicle's coercion device sometimes does not result in success. Therefore, it will be possible to use any other vehicle which is found there to enable the stopping of a vehicle, for example, in which the perpetrators of a criminal offence are either, or possible perpetrators of criminal offences. As one type and technical and technological progress, a new power of use of coercion funds or other means of disrupting the aircraft or other mobile device to remote control or device with no predetermined direction of movement is introduced if it is not possible otherwise to prevent a criminal offence, offence or eliminate danger. The current Law on Police Affairs and Powers does not provide for any police treatment of remote control mobile devices, primarily because such devices did not appear in a more massive application or in everyday life at the time of the construction and entry into force of this law. As such devices are very common today, they may appear as a means of jeopardising security or committing a criminal offence or offence, we keep it opportunised and necessary to supplement the law in this way to allow police to interfere with such a device if it can, if it could commit a criminal offence. The other amendments and additions mentioned here relate primarily to the more precise terminology of certain provisions of the Institute in this law or are necessary in order to remove the concerns observed in the practical application of this law. The Law on Police Affairs and Powers is every significant, significant tool in the hands of the police that needs to be carefully handled, so to speak, to handle, there should be supervision, it exists in the police, but also must, the police authority must allow the police officer to carry out his job in quality and thus safeguard the lives, health of people, property and other social values protected by special laws. Here, thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146139	Thank you, we have four replicas, the first is a colleague of Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146140	Dear Secretary of State, there are really good changes in this law that I welcome, however, I will say insufficiently, insufficiently. I will point out a problem that is very big, growing and unfortunately the ministry does not care about the problem, or the Croatian Government. It's a problem of migration, of illegal migration, today we have a situation where any illegal migrant, and it's a number, you know well, about over 20,000 people per year who illegally migrate towards the Republic of Croatia, towards Western and Central Europe, pass through the Republic of Croatia without any documents. This is where you talk about identifying. How do you determine the identity of someone who doesn't have the documents, who has the fake documents? So there's simply no possibility. So we have two criteria, we have one criterion for migrants, and another criterion for everyone else, with the fact that I have to point out that most of these migrants are unfortunately running from the laws of the countries where something has gone wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146141	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146142	It is certainly a notorious fact, of course, that the Republic of Croatia has been exposed to significant migration pressures in recent years, and that Croatian police are making maximum human and technical and other efforts to keep the border safe and to prevent illegal entry of illegal migrants. It is true that many of these people do not have documents, identity can, of course, be established in another way, but in this case, it certainly is when it comes to large and massive inflows quite difficult. Anyone who has a document for legal entry into the Republic of Croatia can enter the border crossing, and for all others who are trying to enter illegally, Croatian police will continue to prevent them from entering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146143	You're second, you're second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146144	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, these amendments and additions to the law are desirable, however, they do not solve a key problem in the Croatian police, and this is the departure of our officers out because of poor working conditions and due to low wages. So, I have a question, so for you, do you have any idea how many Croatian police officers actually left their service because of poor working conditions and will these amendments to the law help them stay here? I don't think they're going to have to deal with other things about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146145	You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146146	This government and the MUP have invested a lot in enabling better working legal status and material conditions for the work of Croatian police officers, for years they have also been abandoned in terms of equipment and means of work so that they need to come to a satisfactory level and I think they are doing so in haste and doing so. The number of people leaving the police is something perhaps greater than he was in earlier periods, he is still not so alarming, the continued arrival of new young educated people comes, we have to work and work to improve their material status and by adopting the Law on Police last week is being introduced and housing compensation and thus will allow people who work beyond their place of residence to receive compensation and that they can work more easily in other areas of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146147	Thank you. Now, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146148	So, I was also thinking as a colleague of Sladolev to warn us, so people send us messages that simple and working conditions and equipment, so you say that the government does a lot of things, but unfortunately our people in the police are not satisfied with their equipment, neither means working with their working conditions, nor these housing fees are enough, we all know that one large part of our people from Slavonia are going south, so in Dubrovnik and elsewhere work, simply with that money that they can't survive at all, and at the end of this, what our colleague Sladolov said is deciding, means leaving the service and going to other countries. So when people from the state service leave us, so out of the Republic of Croatia, it shows that the situation is alarming, that we can't fool ourselves, that we can't look at things with some pink glasses, and I think it's time for both the government and the MUP to think about how to keep our people in the service and what to do in that sense. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146149	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146150	Dear Mr. Representative, we certainly don't look at things with pink glasses, we look at reality, the situation has to be even better, the Croatian police, so we make sure that we try to get as many domestics to work in the police department as possible, in this we try to work with young people who finish high school to explain what police work is and animate them to do in their environments, especially in these coastal counties, in Istria, in Dubrovnik, to report to local people and thus reduce the total costs. But in any case, the police need to raise their wages, it certainly isn't enough right now, but the police live in this society where we all live together, and it can't be special, especially anymore. Isolated than so far. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146151	Comrade Škorić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146152	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here colleagues were essentially mentioned about the status of police officers, we would also through their training practically wish they were police officers, if they had all possible knowledge, abilities, education, wages, and all of us know that this is very difficult, so here in this sense, and we were making a proposal to conduct and especially train police officers to work with people with mental disorders, so in this sense, this proposal was rejected, so I would ask your comment just how it is planned to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146153	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146154	Mr. MP, as I pointed out in the opening statement, this law is therefore in line with certain provisions of the Law on Juvenile Courts and Police on a daily basis educates its officials working with these particularly vulnerable categories on particularly careful treatment. According to them, there is a special guideline issued by the Ministry of Health when it comes to working with these people, so part of police education is also working with people with mental disorders and with particularly vulnerable groups of people, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146155	Thank you. Would the committee's reporters like to take their words? No, no, then let's go to the debate, first up is GDZ's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146156	Before us, a law that has already passed the first reading, as already said in the introduction, has been passed since 2009 in view of changes in the CAP and since these technological innovations are said to be, and then the provisions on police affairs need to be adapted. The changes between the first and second reading were not so that we could basically just repeat what we said before and on behalf of the club we already said that HDZ would support this law. However, I think it is necessary, in addition to these remarks on the personal donations of police officers who are insufficient to increase them in order to improve both the status and satisfaction of the people working in this system, I think we should say something at the expense of our work, the adoption of laws, or the adoption of provisions that are now on the current practice of law-making is always fragmentary or resolute, and in general we do not pass laws that would apply to the entire state administration or system of state administration as a whole. Last time, I also said that the Law on the Police determines party membership or non-community instead of resolving it by another law that would apply to all ministries and the entire state administration. Let me make a few remarks here from that guy. Here you're saying something in itself should be normal, it's that checking the identity of a person can be done on the basis of the information systems with which the MUP is available. This is something in itself should be understandable or something that should be regulated by one law that defines how the databases or information systems the state administration has at its disposal are used in all ministries, not just in one ministry. This would clearly lead to the fact that public bases are publicly available, there is this whole e-Croatian programme that goes into it, which are internal bases and by definition are then used for the purposes of the ministry, individual ministries, which are working materials that are only employees' materials working on certain jobs. Or there's something that's kind of understandable again, because there can be an identity check in cases of committing a crime not only. We have a discussion about where the photos will be delivered when someone has committed a crime and it assumes the question of identifying the identity in this one, and it's not just a matter of police treatment, but if you want what happens to those photos, now we know that when we get on the highway or get off it, it's about the photos of the vehicle and the person, there are cameras placed in the public space, in the ATMs, in the shops, what happens to those photos, what is the use of that if we want to undermine everything under the cover of personal data protection? So we need one whole law on that. It is also important, then, to keep personal data. Here it is spoken with personal data of 4 and 10 years that the MUP can delete after that period, which is with all these other data collected on these technical means throughout, by both private and public institutions, which is why we need one whole law. Or you have something that's also a problem not only of the MUP, but of other institutions, which is stopping the vehicle, forcing the vehicle to stop, and that other means can be used. If we apply this to other cases in case of floods or other disasters when you have to do one more damage to prevent major damage, then it is one issue that should be resolved systematically again for all these institutions that come into such a situation in one whole way, is that the question of who gives the order, how are the parties that are damaged in that case, therefore, should be one whole law. Also when it comes to these remote control devices, remote control aircraft or, or drones or drones, it's not just the police's problem, it's today a problem of privacy, as well as certain protected zones for various reasons, therefore, we still need one whole law, not just a law concerning police action. So I think it's time to start thinking differently, to start passing laws that would update these relationships and define rules for the entire state administration, or for public and state institutions, and not that we're forced to cascade for reality, so we only bring under quotes or without quotes as you will, partial solutions or solutions to individual activities or individual ministries. In that sense, he would plead that the government would start to think that way and start passing that kind of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146157	Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Ranko Ostojic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146158	Dear President HS, dear colleagues, MPs and MPs, respected State Secretary with an associate, I will actually say about the Police Affairs Act that since 2009. when it is separated from the system of the Police Act itself, which regulates the working legal status to which both the replicas and the situations are tied, but also the police powers in my opinion are a very important segment, and that is, what the law says is how police officers enforce the law. And so, in the very changes that have been made, they actually refer to a few things that might be aware of that the issue of taking down drones or the system is easier to get into the home given the situation that there are persons who have eventually passed away or a question of informed conversations with suspects and a few things that we can actually realize that these aren't real changes, I expect that what is really going to happen here and announced several times in HS, that we will get a whole, serious law that will be in line with the Law on Criminal Procedure, as well as all other needs of the Croatian police, and what we have now, and that is that we need to cheer up a few cops in a way that power with a lower degree of personal police calling will be carried out evidence actions, and that is essentially a trend that we have at this moment faced with the situation of police shortages we have to lower the criteria instead of building European cops, people who are going to be trained in the same way in the same way, and so many days before. What I can see here, and I have to point out in particular, is one of the important reasons in this legislative framework for the exercise of police authority was just mentioning identity checks. That's where I have to go back to a case that's been very public around Mrs. McNally. Miss Klancir, journalists and what is clear only shows how much deviations can be made and from what is prescribed very strictly in the law. He says that a police officer is checking the identity of a person with an insight into her identity card or other public ID card with a photo, but what's important is he can't do it for certain criminal acts, even in the light of this same law that you put here on the agenda and which we just had a note that it's about those criminal acts, he specifically writes that he can't refer to the identification or verification of the address when it comes to committing a criminal act being prosecuted by a private suit, and it's precisely about insults and slanders. We had such a case, it happened, we had a journalist who had been asked by a county official to get him an address contrary to the law, contrary to the legal regulations where it was said that it could not be a subject, police officers were harassed, followed by an explanation that the alleged problem was that this could not be established in the information system and that it was missed by law. I claim that this is not true, the identification of a person is prescribed in Article 53 and it is known when a police officer checks the identity of a person at the request of official state bodies, legal or natural persons and it is fully defined in the law itself and remains as such in the future. I will note that this applies to Article 30 of the Law, which lists 11 cases where possible, and among other things, I will now quote, that in the situation, it means that someone is seeking it can only refer to acts that are being persecuted by official duty and neither other. And it is stated that it cannot be for a crime of insult or slander. As far as the proceedings are concerned, that is precisely what is important to point out, the authority of the natural person who asked for the data initiating a private suit is assured that it is a matter of course of discrimination against other citizens because someone was allowed to apply for it because the mayor had been provided with data to which he had no right, there was a situation where a field check was made, and of course we had a drawback on the fact that it was not possible to verify it in the information system of the MUP, and in the same letter that I received from the MUP, this is an official response, it is stated that there were over 10,000 requests from lawyers who had been verified in that same information system. And that is why it is quite clear that it is not the issue of amending the regulations or the alleged amendments to the laws that we are talking about, but it is a practice that is inadmissible, which is that someone can ask and ask for his identity to be checked just because he is on some kind of duty or which bothers him with writing. The law states in Article 30 where identity checks are carried out, and that is not the case with Mrs Klancir. She's a celebrity, she wasn't wanted to verify her identity, she was asked to have her addresses, just so she could get this one so she could get a call from the court, and what was done was the exact opposite of those allowed uses of police powers and was wronged, of course, and the whole thing was different they could simply call her, ask her to give an address or apologize at least. At first, it was said that they went for a moment because they couldn't find them in the information system as if there were supposed to be more people with the same names and last names, and then it turns out they weren't allowed to look in the information system, so they went to the field. It's something you can't expect to hear from the police, from police officers, and I think it's one of the examples that actually says how the articles are misapplyed and we can write down no idea how strict the provisions are if the practice is going to be that way and if it's going to be tolerated, then I'll repeat it in Article 63. The law on police affairs and powers is well known, the explicit states that he will not act, will not determine the identity of the perpetrator for a crime against honor and reputation, nor will he receive a criminal application that is related to insult, slander, disgrace, and that is what no one can personally request. When police act, when it comes to insults, slanders, and disgrace at the request of a damaged person, it can only be done by a competent court. With regard to accepting such arguments, legal and life-forms, it is actually impossible to accept the argument that its own IT system cannot allegedly be used. It's absolutely not true, it's the heart and mind of the entire MUP, it's being upgraded, it's expanding, it's being built in, it's working with other authorities, with SOA, with those who have public authority, and then we get to this case that it's supposed to be not prescribed by law. I must say that it was a transparent explanation and completely declassified in terms and needs of alleged meetings where rules are to be changed, my message is simple to change practice, do not allow someone to personally ask to be treated in his case from the level of officials of the ruling party, so that they can ask for someone to send police officers on the ground and no one to answer afterwards and not to apologize for such a situation. What there are standard operating procedures that have been issued, which the police have in relation to legitimacy, has been determined exactly how it is done with the GDPR Personal Data Protection Act and this justification in which we will not actually apply Article 30, which states in which 10 cases the data may be requested or how it has been explained that the identity was allegedly determined, which is of course not true, but only the address being sought. For this reason, I will say that this part of the amendments to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, with the intention that was similar in 2009 to separate it from the Law on Police itself at the end and in 2012 I will remind you when it was intended to unite in one law not without reason, because what you can't through these solutions naturally covers everything. There's too much room left for regulations, which I don't think is good and what's happening to us in the police today, and I'm actually going to repeat what state secretaries you said, and that's that almost 500 people have gone into retirement by the end of the year, it's a question of how many of them will go away, but it's a lot more painful information about how many people have the right to retire, and that's more than a third of the entire police system in the Republic of Croatia, of course that part of them is motivated by the provisions of the laws they provide, I'll say, modest severance, but it's exactly the following that we're about to have one serious problem and as many criteria as possible if they don't apply the provision of reserve police and people on the ground, we're going to have serious costs, and that thing we have to do in the best way. I have already pointed out, police officers today because of their status are actually happy when they are sent from the airport in Dubrovnik, Split, Rijeka or Pula to the border from BiH to Donja Lapac for the reason that they will then receive a field allowance which will of course be paid by the citizens of Croatia, but what I can notice and say, and that is not good when they are not stimulated to do quality work for which they are trained, where they need to do jobs at the airport, and all of this else could be covered with people who are very well aware of that field, but not a way to hire the pensioners and to return them back to the police system because they will also not know what territory they are working on. My suggestion was to hire those who have the will and desire to work for three months in the reserve police, in fact, to train them, to be people who are from the field, who know the area, and then there is no cost of accommodation, then there are no costs related to the travel of the same officers and we come to the fact that people work on the ground where they actually live. Here on my part so much, we will still see about the support of the law itself, given that everything we have proposed before, of course, is not appreciated, which does not surprise me, because we are already used to any remarks that go in the best direction and trying to help police officers not being able to approve of the leadership led by the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146159	We are now going to the Independent Representatives' Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146160	Thank you, President HS. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, this is another of, let's say, a series of laws in which we are discussing what is being promoted or how the material status of police officers and their education, education, eventually in this particular case and conduct is changing. In this context, I will mention only the recent debate when we talked about the degree of education that a future police officer should have to have in order to apply for the Police Academy, so the third degree was reduced, and I personally welcomed it because only young people had to have problems in this vertical advancement because, in order to apply for the interest of a police officer, they had to finish so-called earlier. Tonight's school, grade 4, so that we can then approach it, but we can see that this bill is also liberalizing in this area and those who can do certain investigative actions. So, given that it is a second reading of this law, I will try very briefly to explain what I consider to be a little questionable in the bill itself, and since the proposer has already explained this in the first reading and in the second reading, since most of these changes were actually made on the basis of the needs our officers face daily in practice, then it is also logical that such changes and supported because they are necessary then that the job of police officers would be as effective as possible and at the service of the citizens and should not, let us mention the fact that if we compare it with countries in the environment, and the whole EU, there is one enviable level and professionality and the actions of the Croatian police and I think that in most cases the Croatian police may be proud, despite the fact that their salaries are small, despite the fact that the material equipment at which they are not at which we are not able to be able to be able to improve this country, that our young people are happy and that they are happy with them. I also know in my area where I come from a simple man who works in the police just one day just to quit and go to Ireland, goes somewhere far away where he will be able to meet his life needs. And now to move on this concrete bill, we can look at this law from two angles, one angle of those to whom the law directly applies, so those who are going to do the police work themselves and I say we should welcome it, but we must look at this law from another angle, from the corners of the citizens to whom this law also applies, because let's not forget the fundamental slogan of the police chosen in the contest, which I personally like, is security and trust. Security is a notion that only the police cannot influence, the police themselves cannot influence, each of us, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia must help and the police to increase security to a higher level. But trust is something to build, trust does not arise overnight, trust must be built and trust between police and citizens must be created. Maybe I'm the exception, I don't know, here's a colleague and colleagues tell you and if you have a chance to discuss in the replica, me and the day today when a cop stops me I have a certain fear, not because I'm guilty, but it's just like that, better to say I'm not comfortable with that feeling. Once a police officer said, "The police are not only here to punish, "the police are warning me that they're educating, and here I am now going to come to the point of what bothers me in this law and what bothers me in principle and in the minister's performances." Yesterday, he said again, the minister seemed to raise to a level of sacred repression, saying only by punishing us will we achieve by respecting the law, only by frequent punishment. The repression, the repression, like it's not coming out of his lips, he keeps saying that, so is he aware that he's also bringing cops into some position where more citizens, how will he build trust? If I consider a citizen my only goal is to punish me, to catch me in something I've done wrong. That's not a good message. Of course, I have to fence up right now and say, I realize that the minister is saying that because of the most serious offenses and everything that's happening to us today, that people are dying on the roads and that they want to reduce that number. But the question is again, will we succeed? And that's why I'm changing my ankle. 75 no, here, I support you secretary, please explain. The same rank puts a felony and a felony? What's this about? It says it is necessary to prevent the escape of the perpetrator of a criminal offence for which he is prosecuted by official duty or offence and in St. 2. it is necessary to detect traces or cases which may serve to determine the facts of a criminal offence or offence. We strengthen or streamline the Road Safety Act, introduce now and the misdemeanors in the car search of police, I understand if it is, if someone, although there has been a lot of repression in my opinion, people have complained if someone from Slavonia is making tobacco, smuggling tobacco in Zagreb, so a police officer has to stop it and has to search it, but it really wants to be for every offence committed by a police officer to search cars or for certain reasons related to migrants or something else. Please explain that. So, the message itself, in my opinion, is not good. We had a number of cases, I don't know, and the police didn't, the police, the Home Secretary didn't answer, and about the amendments to the State Inspector's Law, where the inspectors were allowed into the home without a warrant. I objected to that, but this is where the law passed. The communal directors have been a little relieved, but they haven't received that authority. Police must build trust with citizens, exist in units of the local self-government of the Prevention Commission and there it can act. And finally, just one more question, Secretary of State, if you can answer me, given the latest events that happened in the town of Virovitica, we're all concerned, we all want answers. All we know about this case of the disappearance of alleged 17 million kunas from the budget, later beginning, unfortunately the tragic death of the president, all of which we know, from the statement of the town of Virovitica, a statement by Minister Kirina who yesterday and at the session received the power to conduct a certain investigation internally, but what we did not notice at any moment, and Article. 9 and this law says, why didn't the police talk to the citizens? A representative of the police, a minister or someone he has authority over? Not at any time. Can you explain why this happened? I think it would also affect citizens' confidence that these circumstances are trying to resolve because in such cases the police should go to the citizens, whether a press conference, or a statement and convince the citizens that they are safe and that everything is done in their favour. As far as the legal changes are concerned, I have no reason not to personally support them, and I hope the club's colleagues do so, we'll discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146161	Now it's the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146162	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a final bill that I will speak of relatively similar to the first reading, wanting to explain the position of GLAS Club and HSU which will be retained by this law. Namely, we are as liberals, primarily GLAS, sensitive to any initiative to increase the authority of the repressive apparatus. On the other hand, we are prepared to support and welcome those changes that clarify, strengthen or improve those powers that mean a contribution to a higher level of security for citizens. Because it is one of the only basic tasks of the existence of a police repressive system, ensuring the safety of citizens. Everything else is off the base mission of that apparatus. It is because of this paradox, therefore, that we can support on the one hand those changes that are going in this direction to strengthen the security of the citizens and this other, which is that, generally taking into account this law, there are also those proposals that strengthen the powers that can be misused, our club will be restrained. But I want to say that there are several important messages. First of all, to boost the level of efficiency of police structure, to achieve basic tasks, and on the other hand, also to strengthen citizens' confidence in police. Therefore, the police can only function successfully and exclusively if there is community trust and if they rely on it as such on the community. Because the police, however big, with whatever powers they may be, except, of course, when we talk about dictatorial regimes, so the police serve for open repression and Fascision of society, so in principle, however large, capable, equipped, it will always be easier and better to carry out its tasks with much less effort and much less collateral damage if the community cooperates with it. In this sense, all those mechanisms that lead, as I said, to increase the level of trust, therefore, he, that trust must not be as a colleague said earlier, based on fear. No, but to the citizens' sense that by doing their job, the police are increasing general security and working for the general good of the entire community. We have a few great examples, let's say, recentically, when attempted break-ins besieged neighbors who cared about what was happening on their street and noticed an unusual event. They didn't turn their heads like we used to do in modern times, a lot of us, on the line of less resistance, but they actively turned on and asked for clarity, called the police, and eventually the burglar was arrested without God knowing what damage he had done. So this level of trust grows more and more that will be the efficiency of the police system ever greater. Secondly, we call for the protection of police officers in the performance of their duties by reducing the space for abuses. My question is why did you take the cameras off the police force? Wasn't it a great means to prevent any, any attacks on them and bring and the police officers themselves into unpleasant situations in the process of proving whether or not they overstepped official authority? The camera on the cop protected him first of all and provided very valuable material evidence of quality of conduct. There was no room for a lot of mud like there was no room for a great abuse because it was known that there would be video material. Furthermore, in all possible ways prevent the abuse of special police in their actions. The last time I mentioned it, I'm going to repeat it now, it concerns all cases that have nothing to do with organised crime, national security threats, the fight against terrorism and similar examples of special police tasks. This applies in particular to the treatment of the State Inspectorate. The demonstration of force and repression in cases, for example, in the middle of the tourist season at midnight or at 1 o'clock in the night, serve nothing. According to the State Inspectorate's report, there's a violation of a fiscal type that has to ask for a hundred or 80 special officers anywhere. It's about administrative violations or acts that can be sanctioned without any problems without the police present. I cited an example, a very recent one in which the police conduct of such a type actually led to a disturbance in public order and peace, and it was found that the final balance of action in a Zagreb club was 8 violations and that only two were originally established by those found inside. So 4x more criminal offences have been reported for police actions, it's completely unnecessary. In such actions, the State Inspectorate can be provided without problems and by the basic police and not by a hundred people fully armored and armed. On the other hand, if it's a relapser that needs to be closed down, then it's equally known at noon and midnight. And there is no force to show at midnight in front of 2,000 tourists when it can be done at the beginning of working hours in the afternoon without any circuses in scandals. Close yourself, seal up and healthy and not harass the people who came there. They didn't come to support someone's violation of the law because they have no idea, they don't know that this one has a double cash register, that he's violated the provisions of a decision allowing him to use the public surface for the terrace. To play music louder than allowed and other things. It is not their job, and they must not be threatened or harassed in that sense. But one who does so can be sanctioned without a problem in daylight and without great pomp and circuses. On the other hand, if they give up, showing force in such an inappropriate way, we will reduce the area where special police are claimed to be abused sometimes in cases of corruption. This increases information that many who are involved in security work are many of those who are involved in the protection of certain locals especially nightly former members of the special police force. You shouldn't allow any connection, of course we don't have anything against it, let a man do whatever he wants in life, it's his thing to the point where he breaks the law. The involvement of those formerly in the special police force may be consistent with their abilities, skills, and knowledge. It's a matter of them and their employers. But let's not give material to those who bring in those two things. So it's about a racket, and it's about lobbys, and it's about control of certain areas, about controlling the ability to work in certain activities. That's not what the police need. The police should stay away from coming under any charges of corruption or participation in any claneous calculation. All these jobs can be done without any problems and the basic police and not in hundreds of numbers, but they're five. It will actually enable you to narrow down the area of accusations, speculation, unpleasant information because these people who do their job, every special officer, don't ask them whether or not they can, want or not. It's a job, if they get a warrant, they have to do it. But let's not put them in that situation. Such orders are unnecessary, immaterial and harmful. Croatian police have a great tradition and reputation built in the worst times. Where our army could not, especially in the first years of the war, the Croatian police have done extremely important tasks to protect integrity, if you will and in the fight for freedom. And on these traditions we should build only forward and better, improve, help them, understand what they are dealing with, what awaits us with the introduction of the Schengen system, the greatest burden of it, will have to bear both the MUP and the police on the other hand. We look at it lightly, we see it from the side, we see it as border control, as if three customs officers are at the border crossing. No, the introduction of the Schengen system raises to an extremely high level the responsibility of a repressive apparatus to preserve the entire EU border, which requires excellent material supply, technical supply, high level of education of key officials, a large number of people who will be engaged in it, we must be aware of it as Parliament and when we adopt it, and the government of budgeting, we must bear in mind that it is not our task to make it more difficult for these people to live and make life more difficult than it is because they have to worry about the security of not only us but all EU citizens, in this sense we are prepared to support all those leading in this direction, but we have to look with four eyes at each case in which police are mentioned in the context of a greater force than authorized, abuse of power and bringing into a situation to speak of Croatia as a country of brutal people. In particular, I'm talking about these cases that aren't so small, where they're talking about very, very repressive treatment of migrants. If there are any other methods and there are methods, they must have an advantage. We know it's not easy, we know that a police job requires a very high level of commitment, so if you want expertise, it's not easy to find people, that the lack of people in the police system is, in that sense, we're prepared to turn a blind eye to this reduction in the level of necessary competences and qualifications even though we warn that it can have a negative effect. Therefore, we ask that the internal procedures of education, improvement of knowledge, education be raised to the highest possible level, that the Government provide funds for the work of the Police Academy and all systems that raise the level of knowledge and skills of the police to help them, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146163	We are now going to the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146164	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Today we are discussing the Law on the Police, but what I am a little disappointed is that this law as well as a series of laws that we are discussing here are approximately cosmetically arranged to prove that something is happening both in the Ministry and in the Government and that something is being debated in the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, this law did not fully consider the problem and did not fully solve it. What is wrong with the police in Croatia, citizens often debate the increasing pressure of police on citizens. We are witnessing the recent deployment of a large number of surveillance cameras, privacy violations, and a little bit of legal solutions are going in that direction, and they're not disseminating things well enough. This law allows the investigator to be a person who does not have a degree or undergraduate study, which is certainly not good for the Croatian police and for this country to lower the level of education of police investigators. We are all aware of how much crime there is in Croatia and most economically, and I believe that investigators should be even more educated than they are today and there should be as many of them as possible. Unfortunately, police officers are leaving the Croatian police, whether it's a matter of pay, whether it's a matter of working conditions or other things, at the moment I can't accurately detect it, but I don't agree with the fact that the investigator is also a sergeant because I know that there are police officers who have completed graduate studies and postgraduate studies and are sitting in the car today as regular police officers because they may find someone in the family unsuitable or not appropriate national structures, although he is a Croatian defender. I believe that there are no flowers in the police department and that the Croatian police are not as golden as they wish to present themselves to us and that there are many things going on in the Croatian police. We are witnessing and disappearing values from the Croatian police administration itself, we are aware that there are also likely to be corrupt police operations, that there is even crime within the police, but unfortunately we are not talking about it. There would be an identity check, and I believe that this proposal may diminish the possibility of abuse because I would look back on the case as well. Djurdice Klancir and Sisak-Moslavina County Mayor Ivo Zinic, from which I came, who in some ways went to scare the journalist because she wrote about hiring his son in the prison system in Glina. - Mrs. Crescent. The Klancir did not make a single lie, she stated only the facts that were because this Mr. Mayor Zinic, unfortunately a HDZ member, is unfortunately a man who has set his other son to be the mayor of Glina and a professional in the poorest city. Word is he's hired his sister-in-law, and with this intimidation, he's trying to bring all those who point to irregularities into some stage of fear that they won't investigate, talk about his case. And the Croatian police made it possible for him to do so. The personal acquaintances of the mayor with the directors of the Police Administrations of Sisak-Moslavina and Zagreb is his personal matter and I believe that the system should punish such behaviour both the mayor himself and the director of these police administrations. As far as we know, nothing happened. There is also a reasonable doubt that the mayor, Zinic, has ordered the control of his county employees' e-mails, mostly the head. Investigations have been reportedly carried out for more than a year, but we still can't find out what's going on here, despite the council issues. And let's remember that Mr. Vice President Miljan Brkic was put in the media very quickly that he allegedly saw his ex-wife's e-mails. I think what Mayor Žinic did is a far greater sin than what Mr. Brkic was burdening himself with. What the police can't solve, too, which is petty theft, they don't want to go out at all, find out, investigate because they think it's for a private lawsuit. I'm asking you how to deal with it. Think of the many agricultural thefts that take place, which are below the value of 2,3 thousand kuna. It happened neatly, but it's impossible to sanction them. And if citizens themselves take the law into their own hands, then they are in greater sin than those they stole, and unfortunately, the only method seems to be that. Temporary confiscation of the subject. This law prescribes temporary confiscation and preservation of cases, treatment of taken-off cases and return of taken-off items. I have one case where a hunting weapon was taken in one hunt where there was a accidental wound, not that person who owns that weapon but another person with other weapons and after eight years of the process and while that hunter got the verdict that he needed to get his weapon back, his carbine disappeared who was on guard at the police station. I'm asking the police and the director of the Croatian police, including the minister, how can this happen, not anything, but a carabin. The hunting weapon is gone. But a certain gentleman out of fear that even with another weapon, something could have happened to him, he simply shut it down, went over it, went to the store and bought another carbine. It means that the mass of that in the Croatian police is not well and is not right. What's going on, and it's a police officer I'm on duty. I know a lot of these guys who work in the police department as regular cops for very low wages in very bad conditions. They're often sent on their own. So you know how dangerous it is, especially if you have to go on the highway or somewhere, how dangerous it is to be alone on the job of a Croatian police officer. Well, you can't do that in Italy, Germany or anywhere you can never see it because they know how dangerous it is and I ask you to pay close attention to it and make sure that these people never go on duty alone so that what's worst that can happen to them happens to them. I hope that in some future times this law will put into its ranks the problems that are happening in the Internet space. We are aware of the traffic of information, especially public persons, and even ordinary citizens who suffer a whole series of insults or some other kind of damage in that internet space, are simply unable to get justice or police or anyone in this country to deal with those who abuse it. I think that is where we cough for the times in which we live and that the Croatian police should introduce far more rigorous measures and give greater authority to their investigators and educate them to act without delay in such cases. Here, what I definitely disagree with, it's a reduction in the education structure, we recently introduced that a Croatian policeman can be with a three-year-old high school, until then he was four-year-old. Now we're putting the sergeant in charge of being an investigator. Unfortunately, in a bad way we solve the lack of personnel that can investigate in the Croatian police rather than change the conditions of work in the Croatian police, to ensure quality personal incomes and living conditions for investigators and Croatian police officers, so they probably wouldn't go there to some kind of Germany, Ireland or somewhere where they have their belly after bread because they obviously don't have enough quality space for life here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146165	We don't have any more clubs, so we're going to an individual debate. The first is a respected colleague, Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146166	Thanks to the well-respected president of HS, respected state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, here through this debate on the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Police Authorities and Jobs, we have heard a lot about police work and things that do not have much to do with the law itself, and the fact that this law has not undergone any major changes other than those in the act of standardising certain police powers and compliance with EU directives regarding the law on criminal proceedings, confirms that we have a pretty good law and we see these standards that are changing, that they are precisely recognising some holes of negativity that have been present in the past, and that these legal provisions are the urgency of these matters, therefore we need to view this law as a tool that will enable and help the police to do their job better, so I will refer only to some of the things that are present in the debate of the predecessors in the negative context if they have a very positive solution to the police. This is primarily about prescribing possibilities, checking the identity of a person to be made aware of the IT system, but it is emphasized as an exception, so given that the technical opportunities available to the police on the ground are also possible to make an insight into the IT system, to make an insight into both the photo and the personal data of the person whose identity is being verified, this will certainly make it significantly easier and faster for the police to act, and that is certainly one good thing. Furthermore, these provisions make it clear that the conditions under which persons suspected of committing an offence are determined by identity because, according to the applicable legal decisions, this was only possible for the perpetrator of a criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty. With this now, in certain situations set out in the Criminal Code, the perpetrator of the offence may be deprived of liberty, and thus, this measure facilitates the identification of such cases. Also, what is important is to define the use of the official car as a means of coercion because it has not been defined so far and has not guaranteed success so that it is as well as that of the Secretary of State who spoke about the use of drones, aircrafts, thus creating a lot of problems and which should have been regulated by this law, of course in other resolution ministries, to obtain the same permits in the Ministry of Transport, and in any case, these are achievements that solve and improve police work. A lot of disputes caused a story about the authority of police officers to enter a home without a written warrant. So, here I would like to remind you that entering a home is possible, that it can only be applied to a kind of order that refers to the need to bring a person. So, all other cases impossible to do, so whoever interprets this as some kind of additional authority or means of coercion, it interprets it maliciously because this is one exception that facilitates the work of police officers and, in any case, these provisions are welcome and I absolutely believe that these amendments and additions of the law will facilitate the work of police officers and improve their service, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146167	Comrade Djakic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146168	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Comrade Škorić, you have well defined everything these amendments and additions of the law have said, but in the use of an engine stop device and the fact that they are listed clearly, things that can be applied how they are done. I would say something only about the means of coercion, i.e. about the means of binding. Namely, there should be, perhaps in this law a more detailed description of when they are used, means of binding, given that we have seen that perpetrators or suspects in the crimes of war crimes are being treated as if they did nothing. They're walking with the cops while in a series of long cases it happens that the funds apply to those that actually shouldn't be. In Article 85, it should be clearly defined when they are applied, although they are listed but who should be responsible and who shall assess when necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146169	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146170	Thank you very much. Here is my colleague Djakic, sure that every bill upgrade opens up other topics and problems, in any case I believe that this provision, where in a more efficient way, will be able to verify the identity of a person more effectively, will allow for the practical use of the means to be applied here too, because when a police officer on the ground determines the identity and practically has all the information on the person in his file, surely it will facilitate his behaviour and improve his safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146171	All right, now let's go to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146172	Speaking of the Croatian police, I have here to give a little historical context especially when we talk about powers and remember '91. Sir, remember March 31st when the first Croatian director was injured on Plitvice, you remember the gas all, I suppose, Josip Jovic. Then a little later, remember May 2nd, the same year, Borovo's village when 12 Croatian directors, 12 Croatian police officers, were massacred, it's the Croatian police. They then had the power to protect and defend their people, to safeguard our country's territorial integrity, and they paid it with their lives. Those were their powers. Today, when we talk about powers, we have double criteria here, so we have powers that we have increased as far as Croatian citizens are concerned and as for those who are destroying territorial integrity, which ignore the borders of the Republic of Croatia, this is not where the powers have not increased. I'm talking about migrants, of course. It's not about two migrants or three, it's about thousands. Today, only the UN-San canton in BiH has admitted that it is 17 a year, 17 thousand migrants enter, a minimum. They did not stay there, so they went through our homeland, illegally, through our territory, destroying territorial integrity, challenging the borders of the Republic towards the north, towards the west, that is, towards Slovenia most likely. And today when a Croatian police officer who watches the border day and night stops a migrant, I will repeat an illegal who ignores the border he has no documents. And when a Croatian policeman tries to establish his identity, this one has no documents he simply cannot determine his identity. And nothing to anyone. And who is he? German research recently proved that 50% of those migrants who go from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh even, from countries in North Africa, countries where there is no war, in which peace towards Europe is to flee the law. They're running from the law. But we don't know who they are. They're no-name. And then the question arises if any of us here who speaks Croatian would have been stopped by the Croatian police in one way, these were treated in a completely different way. So I don't see in this law that this one big problem has been solved, extremely big. Here I must say thank you to the Croatian police officers who are protecting the Croatian border. I must say, when I was in Marrakesh as the only protester from Croatia, I was not the only one in the world who protested against the Marrakesh Agreement, which here shows that it is bad and I am sorry that the Croatian government, or that the Croatian state signed that treaty, ratified the compact, there were Germans. They were Germans, specifically from the AFD party, who told me that today there are no police officers like Croatian police officers, that they are doing a job like they were doing during the Turkish expansion, that today, as they once did, they are protecting our Christian Europe, a Christian civilization from the Middle East. So the Croatian policeman is doing a great job today. Why am I stressing that? Because Croatian police officers of the day, here I will read two figures, work, trainees for 3852 kuna and those who have the exam for 4342 kuna, means initial salary. Someone will say a little more, maybe ten kunas more, a hundred kunas more with an internship, but it's about a salary that isn't enough to live. So, this way I ask Minister Bozinović a question, dear ministers, could you survive the month with 3800, or 4300 kuna, as many police officers, Croatian police officers today who protect borders and the EU and I will tell our Croatian countries as well? On the other hand, I'm going to mention one event that happened recently, recently we had a situation of Mrs. Captain of Germany Carol Raquette's name and last name that gathered somewhere in the Mediterranean 40 migrants, broke through the blockade of the Italian police and landed those migrants on Lampedus. And now the question is, what would happen, otherwise the viewers need to know that she's been released, that she's been found innocent. If any of us were to board migrants here tomorrow and in Croatia by saving them from hunger, winter, sun, which we already tried to take them to the Slovenian border. Is this an example of good practice? Is this an example of how to act in Europe, to break laws? Here I am interested in the position and the ministry in this incident that took place in Italy, whether tomorrow's transport, smuggling, migrants who flee from the law and their countries will be considered an act of humanity or a violation of the law of the Republic of Croatia. Is this an example of good practice? So I'll repeat, the Croatian police had powers, they had a duty and they did it voluntarily, they defended our country against aggression. Today, they are day and night protecting the borders of the Republic of Croatia, but this law did not increase the powers of these officers, we only increased them compared to Croatian citizens. As for those who are illegally entering Croatia, who are violating Croatian laws, who enter Croatia without a passport, without documents, meaning powers are not increased and that is not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146173	We have a replica of a esteemed colleague, Kirin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146174	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear Representative Zekanovic, as your attitude towards migration, can you understand that as a humanitarian problem and whether the attitude towards migration should be different, perhaps it should be controlled that migrants who are terrorists do not enter the country, you have a solution to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146175	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146176	So, about the terrorism, we agree with our esteemed colleague Kirin, so we don't have any, so that's where we have a consensus. As far as these migrations are concerned, it's not about migrants I'm going to point out who's running from the war but rather about economic migrants. Unfortunately, to a large extent, people who run from laws in their countries, so I don't think that's a humanitarian issue. There are those who need help, of course, and all those who are hypocrites I call upon them, let that be what the Pakistanis mean without a passport that has escaped from the law and if you put them in your home, let them take care of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146177	Another replica of my colleague Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146178	Thank you, President HS. A colleague of Zekanovic, we discussed the same thing about migrants, but Croatian police must protect Croatian citizens regardless of what migrants enter, but especially those who do not... documents. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These should be returned to the border between BiH and Serbia and extradited without any problems and should be given 100% authority in this area at the border and return, there is no justification. Why our police don't have it all, I wonder the same thing. Why are they accusing them of anything if they have to protect Croatian citizens? We have seen recently in Slovenia that migrants have closed up, put a Slovenian citizen in the trunk and driven him to the border or what they have done, therefore and certainly are in the houses in Lica and around, we see that people are sleeping restlessly, so the police must do so and the Croatian state must, of course, influence BiH and Serbia and tell them why you do not leave them before your borders? Why are you bringing them in legally? up to the [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[Intruder: Mr. Misic]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146179	Time. Mr. Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146180	Right fellow Misic, I agree with you completely, you mentioned one example, there are many. I'll mention another example here, here I was recently in the village of Rovisća near Gline where there was an incident, it's about that the man, the resident of that village who lives with his wife and little child, in the house during the night somewhere at about two o'clock a night, entered the yard of 30 migrants, 30 migrants, he drove them out of his yard of one injured, he ended up in prison because he forced people who had not authorized him into the yard until they continued their journey to, so the countries that their destination, I suppose, Germany, was unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146181	We're moving on with individual debates, sir, and I'm sorry another Mr. Plazanic, I'm sorry, Mr. Plazanic, that, excuse me, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146182	My colleague Zekanovic, I fully understand your concern for the prevention or illegal entry of migrants into the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, at the very least it is inappropriate to compare March 31st and May 2, 1991. with what is happening today at the Croatian border. In fact, you know very well that the actions of the Croatian police in Plitvice and Borov village were for the reason of breaking the Chetnik-Serb rebellion into the Republic of Croatia, so armed enemies with the task of suppressing the rebellion, and today Croatian police are making every effort to prevent illegal entry of migrants into both the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the EU. That's a lot of different things. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146183	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146184	Dear colleague, I don't know what part you didn't understand, I will repeat, so when we talk about the Croatian police always, I always like to highlight her role in the Homeland War, and here we agree that there I have mentioned, you have repeated Boro's village and Plitvice, you can mention many other actions in which the Croatian police participated, and here I am sure that we are like-minded and I have pointed out that they are doing a great job today, great job, the best job in Europe is done by the Croatian police. However, Minister Bozinović gives them 3.500,00 kn, 3.800,00 kn or 4.300,00 kn and I will repeat the question to you, too, and to you and Minister Bozinović, can you colleague, could you live with 3,852.00 kn per month and do a very responsible job?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146185	And now we're really moving on to the next and the last individual debate, Mr. Stevo Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146186	Dear colleagues, colleagues, some who spoke about the Croatian police thanking you, their work, the contribution of justice, the well-being of Croatian citizens, I can tell you that you are truly hypocritical not to continue what is behind the hypocrisy of what is going on, there is a film that speaks about it in the Lyemerian, so it's really embarrassing that you're celebrating the Croatian police when I staged a three-time exhibition for the victim of 12 regulars in this house, in HS, and you have three times not accepted yourself, so you came to look at what kind of exhibition I presented, which is why, for which, so much about your appreciation of the Croatian police officer, you can only mantrat, mud and nothing else because you don't hold their sacrifice, to create a secure stable Croatian state, so much about it. And now I'm going to talk, I'm going to talk about a friend of mine about Milenko Vrankovic King, a first-ranking police officer who, when he spent his entire honorary wartime in a special police force, after he's passed all the fields of action to free the country from the terrorists of the great-serb traitors and how else to call them, when he continued to work in the basic police on a routine mission, how routinely she only knows those cops who have to go with the warrant every day, and I welcome what he can and without a warrant to enter the facilities and bring in those who need to face justice. If Vrankovic King had greater authority at that time, perhaps he would have been alive, perhaps he would have approached the one he was supposed to arrest and brought to justice with a gun in his hand, with a bullet in his pipe and not had to come near him in the name of the law, I must bring you to the hearing station. There was a '91 bulletin to be arrested with caution. where we had 59 names after the action of Borov village where it said "Abserve cautiously" and we had long pipes, and we knew what it meant to arrest cautiously. Does the current police officer have it, I believe he has it in some form and will he apply it over that criminal, and that's doubtful, how will he go if he oversteps his powers and which he is legally not foreseen, which someone has not worked out for him, so he will pass as Vrankovic King? He will not pass as the Sabados who is in that devastating impulse of Satro Pajcic and the minister who has easily gone over it, he also said that Pajcic is guilty of rakija. I am for police authority maximum, but I am for a small brake, a mild brake, or at least the responsibility of the commander, which is the minister who will possibly abuse that same police officer with increased powers, and here we remember the church of St. Mark. Wasn't there an over-authorization to break into the church of St. Mark with armed armed police officers on 100% disabled by order of Ranko Ostojić's policy and then SDP clicks? You broke into St. John's Church. Mark with sticks, on whom? On 100% people with disabilities. I was inside, I still remember one hundred percent lying down with a ton between my ribs. Who ordered the break-in? You don't know that either, you know a lot of things in the police department. The Minister's responsibility, which is? So he'll resign if he runs out of weapons from the Varazdin Police Department. He didn't resign, he won't. We rewarded him, and where? Now the president of the Committee of Homeland and National Security, you might think. He failed to solve the swastika next to all the cameras, all the testimonies, all the police working on it. He didn't make it... Or his colleague who robbed the gold, the foreign exchanges from the Klatski police vault. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He hasn't succeeded in much, but he's succeeding now as chairman of the Committee within national security to control our safety, with what? Where did that weapon end? Where will it be used, where is the report for that weapon? Well, I've been talking 20 times from here, Uncle of Varazdin from here, and you can't even ask anyone anything, eat a cat's tongue. I'm asking because I know what it's like to get into a gun when I bought a pump for 1,500 marks that the police took away from me for what? Because of some Cyrillic anti-constitutional plates, against the law, where neither fault has been found nor fault, nor mine nor anyone else's, but my weapons have been taken from me, and I don't know where the weapons are from Varazdin, there's no telling where the weapons from Borova Sela that killed 12 officers are slowly coming out there. You don't know anything in Croatia. A Croatian police officer can intervene with a criminal and the judge will release a criminal because the State's Attorney's Office will come home at 2.3 a.m. from home and let him go home, and this criminal will greet the officer on his way out and laugh at him in the mustache. You can stop a police officer in court when he gets back from his birthday and his colleague will sign him up for fear, of his superiors and conscience doing his job, this one will be a tightly held cop, whether the mayor will answer some, whether he will answer some judge, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no And in the end, what else is coming? as cream on the cake comes his presidential pardon. That the president of his country for which he enforces the law gives pardons to war criminals. What war criminals? Just the ones who committed crimes on his colleagues. Slaughter, kill, take, rape. And then the president's beard shows up and two more pardons like cake cream, although at the time the prison system and the judiciary are opposed to pardoning the same villain but he's still freed because who is he? The president has a halo of holiness and has a bat, a golden bull, has nothing to wear, and he says let this criminal go, the act of mercy is mine, in my hands. That's what we're talking about. A Croatian policeman can be the most trained, can be the most frequent if there is no protection and one who will stand behind him, who will support him in what he is intended for, that policeman, he will shake like a rod, as a soldier on a dead watch, will not know what to do, will be afraid of what is ahead of him but will be more afraid of what is behind him and will fear one and the other because of those who are waiting for him at home to return from that task at all, whether he will have for existence. This is for my friend Vrankovic King Milenko and for many of them. This is also for Allen Clubbot, an officer of honor who was removed by a minister just because he said hello to someone he shouldn't have. So much for cops, so much for their superiors and so much for our complete society and the appreciation of cops, and especially for my colleagues who praise police officers, and haven't honored a minute of silence for them given, they haven't been able to look at their faces from the pictures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146187	Yes, we have several replicas, but before, there is one thing, Parliament where, in the very words, it contains that meaning and the place where it is spoken, I have let you speak to the end, but Parliament is also the place where people are chosen from the people, and Parliament is the place where the committee presidents are elected from this Parliament, so you have to respect them, respect them, just because we chose them. Let's go to the replicas, Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146188	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleague Culej, you talked about hypocrites, of course, you might wonder what's going on in the Croatian state in 30 years, especially about hypocrites who simply don't respect the beginning of the war, do not respect what happened to the police officers who are in Borov village and everyone else in our territory of the Croatian state when we voted for independence, it's embarrassing, of course, it's embarrassing. We have a swastika in Split you mentioned, and we have in Dubrovnik one of the benches made it, I wonder if they found it, too, who are these people who embarrass the Croatian state? What do they want? Who set that up? Of course it should be investigated, at least we won't protect it, and about hypocrites who don't respect even the Republic of Croatia today, who don't even respect the Croatian police, who don't even want the Republic of Croatia to have certain people who are ashamed, who embarrass us in all possible ways and who want to show The Republic of Croatia as a non-democratic country, that's the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146189	Mr. Culey's answer? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146190	My fellow Muscle, if someone came to fall from Mars or came from a place I don't know where, he'd wonder if you were all citizens of this country. It's logical that we don't all have to think the same thing, but we should have the same attitudes about certain things. The crime would have to have the same attitude all together, at least that would be normal, but in the Republic of Croatia it's not normal for one reason, and that's because not everyone wanted it, they didn't all want it, and they're going to fight in every way to black it, the clouds wherever they get, wherever they can, as long as they live and in any knee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146191	Mr. Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146192	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Culej, here you are today complaining to those who are girlsly pushing for a better status of Croatian police officer, and at the same time do not visit exhibitions about the death of our officers in the Homeland War. We have heard through today's and debate that many talk about how Croatian police officers should be more educated, better, that they should have better salaries, better material rights, better working conditions, and at the same time, when they vote the budget, they give amendments to download funds to the MUP. At the same time, they resent the fact that Croatian police officers protect their border from illegal crossings, so at all times we should all be consistent together and do everything together to protect the work of the Croatian police officer and protect his dignity, and this is exactly the law that contributes to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146193	Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146194	As a police officer and as a Croatian soldier we witnessed some times after the Homeland War, we witnessed the times when the Croatian Army, when the air force landed, when the Croatian Army was leaving in sloppy shirts to work, we remember the police with the pepper traps that crossed 500 000 km, we remember the officers without a shirt, we remember the officers without equipment, how much investment was made in the Croatian police and the Croatian Army when one party was in power, for which reason they seemed to be just wondering that they were not those who killed those 12 and many others.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146195	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146196	My colleague Culej, you said nicely, the relationship to the exhibitions, or not to them, is the relationship and actually towards the Croatian police officer. Just like forgetting an anniversary like that. The death of our General Praljko when, in HS, we forget. It is a disgrace and it is inadmissible, it is actually a mirror of the state of the nation when Croatian MPs do not take care of what helped or conditioned it to be created at all, the Croatian state happens. When we talk about powers, I'm going to mention another example of double standards here, and that's the law on preventing riots on school grounds. A cop is right if he has reasonable suspicion that someone is going to a sporting event, to a game, to examine it, to legitimize it, and to bring him in, for example. There's more than 0.5% of blood alcohol. On the other hand, migrants in the Croatian state can do whatever they want, even illegally border, break into houses [[Intruder: Time]] And he won't answer. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146197	Thank you. Mr. Culey's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146198	Double standards when it comes to Croatian citizens and those who come to us are evident in this. If we had an activist on the National Security Committee, Gordan Bosanca, who is now encouraging the arrival of these migrants in an illegal manner, and he's been elected to the National Security Committee by someone to help him in his work or not, and the most interesting thing is that this same Gordan commands hundreds of such Gordans on the ground who filmed police officers secretly to catch them in some way over their duties, and we know in what conditions these officers are working on, they're being used with pranks, setups, detentions of violence against migrants, so that they don't only harm the Croatian police. And it'll all be someone [[Intruder: Thank you]] to verify on the board. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146199	Thank you. And the outsiders have been chosen by this HS Mr. Culey, we choose them from outside board members. Mr. Uncle, come in. Mr. Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146200	Comrade Culey, I can't agree with you when you claim that the police have done nothing to detect a weapon stolen from a police warehouse in Varazdin. In fact, they've done everything they can to keep it from being discovered, and that's what the activity order is about. So, on January 2, 2015 on patrol, so when you examine a cop's vehicle, you discover a larger amount of weaponry, of course the public is familiar with that. The next procedure is to rise in March the same year a criminal application for giving off official secrets, investigating who tipped it off to the media. It is not until the 7th month of the same year that criminal charges for theft are raised, and only a year and 3rd months after all internal control of the MUP goes a little bit into review. Oversight [[Intruder: Thank you]] for which results today we do not know what is determined. [[Thank you, Mr. Uncle.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146201	Thank you. Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146202	As a police officer, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Where does the fish smell from? It doesn't smell like tail, it smells like head. I wonder if maybe some future officer King is targeting some pipe from the Varazdin Police Department. What's going to be, who's going to answer when it's revealed, where every weapon has purpose, it hasn't gone to destruction, it's somewhere where it's waiting for its future use and it's going to be used, but it's going to be remembered that at least two people here have talked about it, but nobody else has heard it, I just hope that you and I won't be in front of those tubes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146203	Okay. Mr. Zarko Katić will speak on behalf of the promoter, please. State Secretary Zarko Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament, here is this debate in this house that shows clearly what the Croatian public, including representatives in HS, expect from Croatian police officers. The expectations towards the Croatian police are extremely high, they should be. Police are a service that works 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, police officers perform their duties under all possible weather and other conditions on the ground, in forests, on the road, a very responsible task which, as it is said, is often not sufficiently and adequately evaluated. However, the Croatian government, the MUP, the minister, the director-in-chief and all involved are committed to enabling the best conditions for the work of the Croatian police, from basic equipment, from special means to help them carry out their tasks and powers more easily, to better rewards for their work, therefore better salaries and other material conditions and their status as a whole. However, it takes time, we need all of us and enough resources to make one part of the Croatian budget, or more significant part, go for the salaries and improve the material status of Croatian police officers. Part of the debate that was heard here today concerns, of course, other laws that regulate police work, and so did the Law on the Police whose amendments we adopted, this house adopted last week and in these amendments as you know that we tried to repair the material position of police officers who did not work in their place of residence by introducing housing compensation. Such efforts will continue by the Croatian government. The law on police affairs and powers knows 13 jobs and 24 powers, or ways, tools as police do. This law seeks to finesse these tools, which is why this law is not broad, we believe that it is not the time for some radical changes to these powers, but for them to be brought into line with other laws, in this case in the first place with the Criminal Procedure Act, but also for other regulations and technological monitoring, possibly the introduction and new powers of police, in accordance with technical technological achievements, is a permanent task of the Ministry or Croatian Government, and it will continue to do so. So these are not cosmetic changes, but important changes that will enable officers to work easier and more efficiently, but for now they are this scale, we thought that the rest of the police powers were neat and well-defined and give the police a good tool to act. Of course, police can do their job only in cooperation with citizens, the trust that some MPs have raised here between police and citizens is a prerequisite for the police to do their job in the best possible way and to ensure order, security and stable functioning of society. The situation at the border and the current police behaviour, as police act, has been reiterated here by several MPs, one argues that police are violating their powers, another that they are not acting on them, but in this regard, police powers are precisely defined by this law, as well as the Law on the Control of the State Border are clearly said to be the control of the state border crossing and the protection of the state border primarily to ensure the integrity of the state border and the state area of the Republic of Croatia, the prevention of illegal migration, as well as the protection of life and human health. The Croatian police will continue to do so in accordance with these conditions in which we are at work in the best possible way and will continue to do so. So much, we think that by adopting this law, I repeat, Croatian police will have better tools for their work and for ensuring the stability of order and peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. There's no replica. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146206	We move on to the next statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, second reading, P.Z. Number 619. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by a respected representative of Ines Strenja. I'd like a representative of the esteemed secretary of state to point out the amendment of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja. Here's my colleague Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept the amendment of Strenja Linic's representative. Namely, police affairs and police powers are specified in detail by the Law on Police Affairs and Powers of the Provisions of Art. Three and thirteen. But by order of the Art. 1st century 3 of the Law, it is stated that certain police affairs and powers can also be prescribed by other law. Thus, the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disabilities requires that police, upon invitation to a psychiatric institution, bring a person with serious mental disorders and that he is obliged to handle special care at the time, to protect the dignity of a person with mental disorders and to follow the instructions of a doctor. In addition, the way police officers are handled is also detailed in bringing these persons into a psychiatric institution, and this has been resolved by the Guidelines on police conduct in bringing people with mental disorders to a psychiatric institution brought by the health minister. In addition, this matter is regulated in certain teaching classes and police, high-level police school, where in several, therefore, teaching subjects are handled this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146208	Thank you. There's no proposal. We will vote on this amendment. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Zarka Katic for his explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146209	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on police affairs and powers, second reading, P.Z. No. In 619, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, and the amendment was submitted by Ines Strenja. We had a statement on the amendment earlier in the session. So we have one amendment that the government doesn't accept, so I'm asking that we vote. I find that he has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, please vote. I find that most votes, 75 for, 4 abstentions and 18 against, were passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146210	We move to the next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Defence, second reading, P.Z. No. 649 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I am pleased to hear about the second reading of the law, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? State Secretary Mr Tomislav Ivić is here with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146211	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, in order to further improve the defence system and the capabilities of the Croatian Army, and in line with a strategic review of the defence that highlights the importance of the development of defence capabilities, it is proposed to amend the Defence Act. The security paradigm changes both in the world and in our environment. The frequent cyber attacks on national critical infrastructure as part of hybrid action are certainly one of today's greatest threats. Therefore, we must work on training users of information systems, adapt information architecture, apply advanced protection techniques and raise awareness of security culture and the application of the Information Security Act and cybersecurity of key service operators and digital service providers. The Croatian military is the goal of the cyber defence capabilities we have assumed in the framework of NATO's defence planning process. Its implementation involves the development of a range of capabilities in the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army related to cyberspace. That is why we started with the process of forming a cyberspace command as a new unit of the Croatian Army. The main task of this new command is the administration and protection of key communication information systems, defence and armed forces systems. The cyberspace command is a backbone for the development of the ability to perform cybernetic operations. It is important that today when everything is networked and connected we develop, integrate the capabilities of protection and defence into cyberspace. The proposed law regulates the normative framework and rules of action in cyberspace only for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army. This law does not enter into the jurisdiction of other state bodies which carry out protection in cyberspace in the part-round of their work. The second area covered by this law is the establishment of international military commands and other military bodies with the task of developing common objectives, the capacity that countries have accepted and stemming from membership in international organisations. Those bodies shall be established and operated in accordance with the international acts and contracts concluded. The Government Regulation will regulate the name, headquarters of organisations and the management of those bodies within the limits laid down in the international documents concluded. The first application of these provisions after the adoption and entry into force of this law will be the establishment of an international training centre for special aviation forces. The commitment to participate in the establishment and operation of the centre was taken with Croatia and Hungary, Bulgaria and Slovenia. The country hosts the international body that would establish a training centre for helicopter crews to carry out special air force tasks is the Republic of Croatia based in the Zemunik military. The purpose of the centre is to train the crew of multi-purpose helicopters through theoretical and flight training to carry out unconventional tasks of special air forces. Our goal is to achieve initial operational capacity by the end of this year, and during 2020 full operational capacity. This centre is a step in modernising and strengthening the Croatian Army. Also by establishing this centre, the Republic of Croatia has been recognised as a credible partner and ally by other NATO members. The long-term goal is for this centre in Zemunik to become the first NATO Centre of Excellence in Croatia to train helicopter crews. The proposed law also lays down provisions relating to the protection of defence data and constitutes compliance with the specific regulation. It is also part of the provisions of the proposed law that are not technical in compliance with other laws and implementing regulations. In this final proposal, the law also adopted the comments of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament, which are of nomotechnical nature, and there are no other differences compared to the first reading. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. I suggest you support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146212	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Angelo Striker who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146213	Thank you, Vice-President HS, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, which will be supported by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. It is evident that there has been no major change between the first and second readings. However, before considering the current legislative proposal, I consider it desirable to highlight the Croatian military's objectives this year. First of all, I would like to point out the formation of a combat leader centre modeling the former Guard Centre for the specialist training of Petty Officer Damir Tomljenović Gavran in Šepurina. Second i.e. The second goal is to return the army to Pula and form a centre for unmanned aircraft systems. And the third draft command for cyberspace. I would also point out that yesterday, at its meeting, the HS Defence Committee unanimously gave a favourable opinion on the launch of a new procurement process, a multi-purpose combat aircraft, in view of the needs of military capacity and available financial opportunities. The Republic of Croatia is a sovereign, independent, internationally recognised state and is therefore obliged to protect its airspace, it can do so in two ways, either by its own forces or by its own aviation, or by paying other people's protection or by keeping it as an example in Slovenia. Personally, the first option is far more acceptable, i.e. to protect our airspace with our own forces. My own air force. When we talk about such an important topic as defence, I find it good and desirable to compare ourselves, for example. with EU Member States. According to data published by the Eurostat European Statistical Office last year, the 28 EU Member States stand out around EUR 200 billion for defence costs, which is 1.3 of European GDP. According to them, the Republic of Croatia is on the 12th place of defence and on average is the Eurozone. When we talk about cybersecurity, it is important to stress that our society is increasingly relying on networking and the use of information systems, which is why this area is marked by strong economic growth, but also by abuse. The Republic of Croatia recognised the importance of this area and set up a strategic framework for cybersecurity by adopting a national cybersecurity strategy and an action plan for its implementation. How important this area is is the legislative framework that covers this area as a whole. The Security Information System Act, the Information Security Act, the Crisis Infrastructures Act, the National Cyber Security Strategy, the National Security Strategy, the Homeland Security Act, the Cybersecurity Act of the Operators of Key Services and the Digital Service Providers. Today, this proposed law regulates the normative framework and rules of action in the cyberspace for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army, so a cyberspace command is established as a unit of the Croatian Army. Of course, I think it is clear to everyone that their work is only within the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army. Then, in order to make it more economical and rational and efficient to meet the international commitments undertaken, the Republic of Croatia is working with allied states to co-operate, coordinate and connect. In view of the co-operation of the Republic of Croatia, not only with NATO Member States, but also within the framework of the common security and defence policy of the EU and other international organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined, the international agreements indicate the need to regulate how international military command is established and other military bodies, thus allowing for the development and intensive co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and the states of allies in both bilateral and multilateral cooperation. The first application of these provisions will be the establishment of a multinational special aviation programme based in Zemunik where Hungary, Slovenia and Bulgaria will participate with the Republic of Croatia. Due to all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146214	Thank you. Mr. Nikola, Mr. Nicole Grmoy, yes, in front of the bridge of independent lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146215	Thank you, Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Defence Act, means the proposed law is mainly technical and substantively regulated by the establishment of international military commands and other military bodies in the Republic of Croatia. So, you wouldn't owe much, what we're arguing about is art. 10. Amendments proposed, amending Art. The 98th century 6th, meaning that this part of the amendment is again awkwardly and rigidly regulated by air recording, primarily by drones, should not even be mentioned that in practice an existing article which was rigorous and impractical proved completely inconclusive in practice, conditions of today's digital age, multimedia content, growing tourism and social networks. As the item is formulated, we know that every drone shot from the air will be used again, regardless of whether it is a filming of civil territory, weddings, games, tourism or anything benign, we know that a lot of drones are used today for various videos and for promoting our tourism, filming our cities, tourist sights of destinations, have to be delivered to the State Geodetic Authority for approval. The state geodetic administration does not have enough human potential to review everything that is recorded from the air in Croatia in one day, and the number of these recordings will, of course, be growing and larger. This item was to be specified in such a way that the same applies to the recording referred to in Article 4 or to the recording of areas in which military sites and buildings are located. In addition, the Croatian Association of Unmanned Systems, also warns in its observations given in the public consultation, that such legal arrangements are burdenlessly burdened by the administration, primarily by the State Geodetic Authority, but also by the new branch that is developing in the economy, which concerns drones. Comparing the experiences of other European countries, it can be freely said that even with such an arrangement as is proposed, we are still coughing for other countries with regard to air recording and here, it is our observation and we will see if we will make any amendments to this proposal. Here, it's about the law itself, this rest of course, it's not controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146216	We're moving on to individual debates. Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. So here, to further improve the defence system and the capabilities of the Croatian military, and in line with the Strategic Defence Review, which highlights the importance of the development of defence capabilities, this law is also proposed. In fact, the security paradigm is changing, both in the world and in our environment. The frequent cyber attacks on national critical infrastructure, as part of hybrid action, are certainly one of today's strongest threats. We must therefore work on training users of the information system, adapt information... apply advanced protection techniques and raise awareness of security culture and the application of the Information Security Act and of the cybersecurity of key service operators and digital service providers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] HV carrier is... Cybernetic defenses that we have taken over under NATO's defence planning process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Its implementation involves the development of a range of abilities in the MORH and HV related to cyberspace. I believe that by passing this law we clearly establish that we are a NATO component so that in Croatia as well as Croatia, a command is established in which cyber-defense would be carried out thoroughly and to prevent all possible attacks. The area covered by this law, the establishment of international military commands and other military bodies with the task of developing common objectives, the capacity of the countries to be accepted and resulting from membership in international organisations. In accordance with the international acts and contracts concluded, the Government Regulation will regulate the name and headquarters of the organisation and management of those bodies within the limits set out in the international documents concluded. I believe that by adopting this amendment and supplementing the law, we aim to achieve initial operational capacity by the end of this year, and during 2020 full operational capacity. The long-term goal is to get this center into... becoming the first NATO centre of excellence in Croatia for training... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here, I also support the adoption of amendments and additions to this law and I thank you for being so quick and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] working to eliminate opportunities, and to prevent cyber attacks on the system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146218	Thank you, too. Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone. He's losing his right. Does the rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146219	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Defence Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 649, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Defence Act. Let's vote please. I find it unanimous, 112 votes to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146220	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. 662; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when discussing the item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Darko Nekic, please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146221	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President and welcome all the honourable MPs and MPs. So, as it is said, you have before you a draft proposal of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. By law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament, the Government is empowered to regulate these issues, except for changes in the state budget and regulation of taxes, and those issues which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, can only be regulated by HS. Basic matter and time limits of the legislative delegation are prescribed. 88 The Constitution, which refers to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state authorities and local self-government, so that regulations cannot act backwards on the basis of legal authority and cease to apply within one year of the date of the power granted, unless the Parliament decides otherwise. In the current legislative practice, the delegated power is further materially limited to current economic policy issues, and time-limited to a period during which HS does not regularly meet, as can be seen from Article. This means from 15 December 2019 to 15 January 2020 and from 15 July 2020 to 15 September 2020. Since the power delegated by the applicable law ceases by a constitutional deadline of one year from the date of its entry into force, i.e. 10 December 2019, this law, the Government is also proposed to further authorise the regulation to regulate certain issues in the HS section by respecting applicable constitutional restrictions and current legislative practice. It is also proposed that the regulation, on the basis of the legal authority which, on the date of entry into force of this law, remains in force until 30 November 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146222	Thank you, too. If the committee's rapporteurs wanted to, I didn't say before, I apologize, but this debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Labour and Pensions and Social... A little bit of counsel, but the crowd isn't small. The Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. She's the first lady. Ljubica Maksimchuk in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. I apologize for... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146223	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Today, we have before us a proposal for a Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the HS. This draft law authorises the Government to regulate certain issues in the HS section except for changes in the state budget and tax regulation and those issues which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, only HS can be determined. The basic material and time limits of the legislative delegation are laid down in Article 2. 88. The Constitution, which refers to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. Most importantly, and this is primarily that the basis for the adoption of this law is the constitutional provision of Article. The 88th century. In fact, the constitution provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, by virtue of the powers conferred on the Constitution to regulate certain issues in the HS, which do not relate to finance, i.e. the state budget and tax policy, nor to those relating to human rights, the electoral system, the structure and the work of state institutions, units of local, regional and regional self-government. It is important to mention that the regulation under the legal authority cannot act backwards, i.e. retrogradely, and only limited, i.e. the use of this authority by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Only at a time when HS doesn't ambush. The proposal for the adoption of this law is justified on the grounds that the regulations adopted on the basis of the legal authority cease to apply within a period of one year from the date of the power granted, unless HS decides otherwise. The provision of this article proposes that the regulations, which apply to the date of entry into force of this law, remain in force and remain in force until 30 November 2020 at the latest. This law is, by substance, short, clear and necessary, for the purpose of the functioning of the State, given that everything is previously stated and as regards the law of technical nature, the HDZ Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146224	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. Mr. Gordan Maras, good afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146225	Good afternoon to you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about this law, it is not possible not to notice and not to discuss in essence what it contains. It can be said by colleague Maksimchuk that it is a law of a technical nature that regulates the dates by which the government will deal with certain legal proposals from the HS domain, which is at those moments in the pause, but what is important to say is that we need to look at how we function throughout the year, and even how the government works, or how it doesn't work, we saw today that the HNS didn't respond to the government's session, that the ministers weren't in the government's session, that we have one crisis. Perhaps the new management minister is here, I am sorry that there is no, that there is no current Minister Kusčević, he obviously avoids HS and avoids giving answers to those questions to the Croatian public. So these answers he gives, he gives them in a closed circle consisting of 3.4 people, there may be Bačić, Jandrokovic, Plenkovic, but the Croatian public wants to hear and want to see his minister of administration. On the other hand, to answer those questions that interest Croatian citizens. On the other hand, it is no wonder that Minister Kuštević is not here and it is no wonder that you are simply looking at such a technical law from another angle. So you're not just looking at the law as one that will define what is going on between 15 December and 15 January, or 15 July and 15 September, but you're looking at how this state administration works, how the legislation works, how the Ministry of Administration works when a key man, the minister of administration doesn't give answers to these questions, but simply lapidarianly says that nothing is true, all of them are lies, all those who write about it will still remain in office, regardless of what apparently part of the HDZ suggests that they would have to resign and leave their post. So it's not just what it seems and it's not all about these two or three months, which this law defines because Croatian citizens no longer have confidence in the government of the Republic of Croatia and why in any way the government would pass certain laws from the HS domain when we see that even in HS, most of them no longer have their legitimacy, or it is no longer known whether there is a majority. So the HNS said Kushčević no longer wants in the government, Minister Kuščević said that the parties of 2.5% will not determine which direction the Croatian government will go. When we turn down five HNS deputies, most of them are gone. And on that side, the question arises why one such, to such a burning couple of excellent political issues, there is no Minister and Prime Minister Plenkovic here to answer us. To tell us whether or not the Croatian government is still stable, can it work? We now give confidence, however, it is a few months in advance, but we trust the Croatian government to solve certain things, and we do not know whether it can and how it can work. Yes, it may work to arrange a new hall, but can it work at all with all these affairs that burden it, from Minister Kuščević, Minister Žalac, we see now Minister Marić, Tolusic, already so many headlines printed, this one, my colleagues and colleagues, you will probably all agree with the affairs of the most burdened Croatian government. So no government until this one, Andrej Plenkovic, has had so many headlines with affairs. Find me one, deny me. Here, there sits five, six HDZ deputies, let me be denied. Here, I see that they do not need to deny it either because they are aware that this is the most corrupt and corrupt Croatian government's most burdened affairs. Every day we wake up with a new cover, Kuščević, Maric, Tolusic, Zalac, Maric again, so that we don't list the low one now, Dalic, who has already left the government, there are other ministers who have left the government and now we should leave the government in such a way as to technically edit the one who doesn't even have support in the Parliament, who has the most burdensome corruption affairs composition, the most burdensome corruption affairs so far, now we should talk here as if this is a technical matter and as if we don't even have to touch all the problems that she faces every day. So is it normal today in the government of the Republic of Croatia that Prime Minister Plenkovic did not say a word to Minister Kusčević and this affair that has been going on for months now and for which we have placed the recall point of Minister Kusčević in HS today. Not a single word. Mr. Prime Minister, who normally leads to a doctorate, to appeal to European standards, I believe it's amazing that he didn't notice the problem and that he didn't want to comment today and say that, that, it is not acceptable, he will not be Minister Kuščević, or that, yes, I stand behind Minister Kusčević and his crime is no longer just his, but mine. So that's what we're talking about here, and we're all talking about one year before parliamentary elections, colleagues and colleagues. The more those who support it, the greater the burden on themselves. The election is very close. Some may retire and not so many, it's not so burdensome for them, some have long since left politics, crossovers from individual parties and qualified themselves as Bandic's chips, but there are people here who will have to re-election in front of Croatian citizens and in front of ballot boxes and that citizens say what they think of them. And on the other hand, anyone who is willing to support the unspeakable Minister Kusčević, Minister Žalac, Tolusic and all the others I mentioned earlier simply assumes that kind of responsibility. Well, the HDZ rating didn't fall out of its own hands and it's not what it is and HDZ didn't lose the EU elections because Croatian citizens conspired against them, but simply people see that this government isn't working. That they're the burden of these huge affairs that they're building on themselves and they just want a change. What kind of change? Well, we'll see about that. In the election. I'm not going to prejudge anything here. But I don't want to be as arrogant as Prime Minister Plenkovic and as HDZ people saying everything is great, we're doing a great job, people trust us, and it's not seen in the elections to trust them. And you can't see in the election that you trust them and you can't see in the results that they're doing a great job because they're not doing a great job. My fellow citizens and fellow citizens, they are not doing an excellent job, they may be doing excellent work for themselves, but they are not working for you and for that part, we expected today at least a grain of moral and civic responsibility so that Prime Minister Plenkovic today says or stands behind Kuštević and assumes his crime on himself or Kuščević is no longer a minister and the secretary can write him a solution, as she did in several situations before that with MOST ministers. So, but today neither b. Today we are talking about technical law, there is probably a future Minister Nekic sitting here in front of us, and Kuštević is gone. Kuščević said his yesterday in front of the cameras and it's over, and neither does b give the answers he should give anymore. And because of that, I had to use this law, which is de facto from that domain, the functioning of the Government and the Parliament, to warn the Croatian citizens of this problem that will not go away, which will be there tomorrow and tomorrow, which will be there and 15.7. to 15.9. when we are at the stop, which will be at the stop, which will probably be the next year 15.7. because unfortunately, my fellow HDZ colleagues have understood the power literally to the last hundredths, until the last second. So they don't want to lose power at all, if there's a need to overdo it, the coins will work through a fellow Bandic to get rid of it, to stay in power until the last cent, and only if someone is as disappointed as this colleague from Ludbreg, Mr. Strick knows it and says ha look, I've waited long enough to become a member of the board, I haven't become, I'm getting out of HDZ, then I'm disappointed, then maybe the HDZ will change the attitude. And so please don't support any more, I'm telling everyone in the Croatian Parliament, don't support a government like this because it doesn't really make sense anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146226	Thank you very much, time sir. Time, time. You said yourself that you used that law to say something else, and I was tolerated by seeing the great support you have behind you, and I was impressed, so I let you. Mr. Lovrinović has, Mr. Lovrinović has, I'm sorry, there's nothing broken here, Mr. Lovrinović. ... Well, then we'll see. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Can I help you? What is it? What did I say that doesn't stand?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146227	So it's not the point that you said what's not standing but...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146228	No, the point is not to say which point, which point, which point, which point?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146229	...the chairman is not here to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146230	What point, Mr. Maras? Which point?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146231	An injury, a point related to the conduct of a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146232	There isn't. First warning. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146233	.../Attack Maras: 230 points./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146234	230?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146235	.../Intruder Maras: 232./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146236	Let's see. Let's read it. [[Intruder Maras: Can I continue?]] No, no, I don't have to read it before. [[Intruder Maras: Can I continue?]] 232 No, no, you have to wait. [[And I don't have to read it and you have to, so why don't you know it in your head?]] Well, yeah, he doesn't know... [[So why don't you know about it?]] Well, 'cause I never lift a bat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[So why don't you know about it? Did I make a mistake, Mr. Radin?]] I didn't raise the bat. You did, 232. [[Did I make a mistake, Mr. Radin?]] I have to read it. It's my duty. [[Intruder Maras: Just a little.]] But you can stand. [[But why do I need to know and you don't?]] The speaker can only talk about the subject under discussion, it refers to you and not me, according to the established agenda. If the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda theme. So you're complaining to me that I didn't warn you. What do you mean? [[Intruder Maras: No.]] No discussion, let's move on, sir. [[It's Mr. Vice President...]] No arguments, you have a replica. [[Mr. Vice President, it's hurt...]] Mr. Lovrinović. ... Mr. Lovrinović has a replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146237	Comrade Maras, you see the government asking us as Parliament to give her the consent to make regulations over the summer. Have you noticed in that list whether the Government is asking us to agree that Mr. Kustević is being replaced for this matter or not? Or is it not strange that the Government is asking us now over the summer to be able to pass certain regulations and that what it already has powers for such as the shifts of bad ministers not to do so? Here's what you think of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146238	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146239	Thank you very much. Here I will address you as a speaker which only a representative in the Croatian Parliament can do while the chairman only gives his word and maintains his order at the session and does not make his descriptive remarks about what happened and how many there are in the hall, I see that there are many representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President means there are none other than you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146240	There's usually none behind me because there's a wall. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146241	Yeah, yeah, no, I said except for you, you didn't hear me, you didn't hear me. But you are Mr. Lovrinovic absolutely right, so the government does not want to take responsibility for itself, Prime Minister Plenkovic does not want to take responsibility for himself at the moment, although he has already taken responsibility for it. He's already taken over. So he didn't react, so he's equal to Kuščević. If Kuscevic goes away, Prime Minister Plenkovic goes away. There's no more. So after Kuščević explained to him what he did he said it was okay, OK, if it is wrong, Plenkovic, not only Kuščević, will go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146242	Another replica, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146243	A fellow Maras on a party rating would be able to talk, and the best rating is the election. And you, like the SDP in Lika-Senj County, won the historic result, is that, as many councilmen as I don't know exactly, 0 or not? So much for the ratings. Speaking of affairs, here's another year today and we'll be able to compare the results of your government's work, Milanovic's and current. At the time of your government, the Constitutional Court has annulled your every other law. I can see Jakovina sitting here today because he was a successful agriculture minister. The flashes are all in flight condition, right? The surplus you didn't know existed, GDP and GDP growth had no idea it was possible, unemployment was emerging. Therefore, be patient for another year and we will be able to compare the results of the work of one government and another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146244	Time, time. Mr. Maras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146245	Thank you very much. Mr. Uncle, I don't know what I'm supposed to answer to yours at all, so Krstičević says the MiGs are flying, I'm not talking. That's what the Baptist says. So you talk to him when it comes to MiGs. As for surpluses, GDP, I don't know if you asked me if we knew what it was or whether it was in practice. So you've grown GDP, you don't even know if you've been following trends and whether you were in Parliament in 2014. So in 2014 and 2015 we also had GDP growth and trends, trends turned. But it fascinates one other thing, so Mr. Strick compares the elections in Lika-Senj County with the elections in the Republic of Croatia. Where 10 or 15 thousand people came out from where a million people came out. Where HDZ lost European elections, lost European elections and is trying to compensate for good results in Lika-Senj County. I mean, it's all paradox and ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146246	Time. Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146247	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, it's amazing this 3 years since I've been sitting in this House listening to your lies and you've had the opportunity to develop this Croatia. One of the witnesses of your unhappiness is me who comes from the municipality where you stopped economic development and may be a disgrace to you. Secondly, this government will function as long as it is SDP. Why? Just because between you and me, and you... and me... and us, there are people who are prone to HDZ, and I'd dare say you're the first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146248	Mr. Lonchar. I'll give you my word, this Mr. Maras. Mr. Loncar, let's try to avoid the words of lies, it's much nicer to say I disagree with you, I disagree because here are all the MPs who have been elected and who deliver their opinions, so then, here, now will answer you Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146249	Thank you very much. Mr. Lonchar, I don't know if he had logic in high school, but if we had it, he probably didn't have a 5, and if he didn't, he probably wouldn't have passed it. Because of what to say that Gordan Maras is the biggest critic of HDZ and then to say that I'm prone, that's not very logical. I think so, HDZ. No, it can be simply HDZ logic but it shows itself every day in practice. It's fair to say I got rich Kuščević when he says, and then as head of property, he acquires the property at 7.8 million that no one else can gain in any.../incomprehensible/... that's what HDZ's logic, which here is reflected in Mr. Lončar's parliamentary logic which he just said. Your problem in your community was that you understood the contracts you signed with the state in HDZ's way, that they didn't have to be respected. And you didn't honor the contract you signed with the HDZ government and what was the problem, if you'd used the money, you wouldn't have to return it, very simply, as well. everyone else in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] That's what you think of that money as yours, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146250	Sir, it's Mr. Kirin's turn now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146251	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Representative Maras. Your review of the government's criticism, ministers and you in the SDP government were minister and in the SDP government there were suspicious manipulations and replacements of ministers, as well as you know it, but then the opposition was more moderate, but the ruling majority was more stable.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146252	Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146253	I really don't know what to say about this, but the opposition was more moderate, and the ruling majority was more stable. Well, that's logical, no, if the opposition is more moderate and can't be criticized, there's not so many affairs, the ruling majority is more stable. So I agree with that, here you can see that I can agree with my colleagues from HDZ, but as far as these affairs are concerned, show one person who acquired what Kuščević acquired while he was in office as the head of the municipality. One person and the way Kuščević acquired it, show one person. No such ones, no such ones, but in HDZ. And what to do, I would call out if someone in HNS was in the government right now, I don't know which other party has a general, and now in the coalition people are so mixed up that God no longer knows how expensive it is, but there's no, what I can do is what Kushevic just jumped out of it. So, if that were the case in the SDP, you believe me, that would no longer be a minister and probably not even a member of the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146254	Thank you, too. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, we are discussing a bill for the government to take over during a summer vacation of a month and a half, meaning that it can adopt regulations and thus assume some of the powers that normally belong to the assembly. So respected citizens over this month and a half over the summer and a month and a half, a month around Christmas, that's two-and-a-half months means the government takes charge of the assembly. But I think respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, that this bill is completely unnecessary. Why? Well, the Croatian government has taken over all the Croatian Parliament's powers, so this is completely unnecessary and you see here I'm the only one who's called from the party to change Croatia to say it now, because there's no interest in seeing any HDZs, there's no SDPs and others not to count them, here's one. So they also realize that this is a formality, why, because people know that for 20 and more years the government has been editing everything and you see when on this side of Mark's square, we are in the assembly, this should be the highest institution in the Republic of Croatia, the highest meaning legislative authority, and those on the other hand there is a government that would have to listen to us, there are ministers, and above all they would have to listen to citizens. That's why they're called ministers, and the minister means the one who serves, the one who serves. But dear citizens they've turned it all around, so it's the key government, it's not here, and you've chosen us, but the key power is there. That's why, now that you see these two years and more that there's every circus here, that there's been a show, so some parties come to the circus and leave, now people start thinking more and wonder if there are adults here in the assembly, there's, for now very little. Who are your adults? So those who understand the situation, who are serious, fairer, who have experience and expertise behind them. So such people and such parties need Croatia. Now it means all the time we're talking about a bill that the government is taking over part of the power requires approval from the parliament, and I repeat again people don't need you to do this, so you've taken everything from the government. Look at our prime minister, so he's acting like Pharaoh, be careful. Otherwise, the story so far was Sanader was God and a beating in HDZ, and I don't see that the current prime minister is any less than that. So he's taken over everything. He's even gone so far these days making a play for the past week that he's been playing some important role in Brussels. And by doing damage to the entire Republic of Croatia by playing a role he thought was important, neither was anyone elected, nor was he to any important function, and what he lobbied missed the whole ball. You see, that's when you mix up the pots and turn everything into a private interest and a group of individual people, and leave this one behind. So, what are we in favour of changing Croatia? So we're fighting to get this political system back in place. And what does the real political system in the Republic of Croatia mean? To make HS, the government to be a government, a judiciary to be a judiciary, and not to let the government cheer and dress the executive power of everything and everything. How do we see that this political system is reversed? So we see on Fridays when the vote is here in HS, here to you, so you have voting machines, pick up, you exactly have a list on page A4 why they're going to vote, it says yes, for, against, etc. And they... They must vote, so they do not represent the citizens here, the interests of citizens who have given them confidence, but whose interests? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Interests of parties or party president or head of executive authority. You can't make such a country, you know, and the people who passed Brussels, the administration, means diplomacy, I personally thought that we in the Foreigners change Croatia, we thought that these people, these new people, would bring this one culture of democracy, a higher quality. No, the first man in the executive office changed, and he left everything else the same, and he doesn't intend to change that. But respected colleagues and colleagues, you see none of us in HS here asked the government to agree to owe Croatian citizens abroad or on the domestic market, you see that there is no such thing. So the government can't take charge over the summer and winter to change taxes, to change budgets, but it can assign the Republic of Croatia for a billion dollars, for two billion dollars, 10 billion or 5 billion kuna, so look how funny it is, so these things that are even less important, they're less important for it, they're looking for consent here in HS, and for what's important as the government's borrowing, so there's a single minister without any, it's enough to put a billion or two billion dollars in charge of it there at the government's meeting of the executive body, and that's why the RH has failed, so that's why they created a huge external and internal debt, and that's why we can't move forward. We change Croatia more and more when disappointed people approach the site because they thought that those who make a play would be able to do something or those who rock the Republic of Croatia 28. They've brought us to the edge of the abyss, and now people realize they need to, grown men here in HS and politics. That is why we are increasingly approaching from the Croatian party of pensioners, HSS, SDP, even HSP, etc., why? Because people watch who's grown up, who's got a vision, who's consistent and who understands, in short terms. But to go back to this bill here, let's say when we talk about what the government needs, what it's looking for, what it needs ingenuity for? Now you'll see, dear citizens, it's started the summer, which the government will take on any additional information anyway, now there's going to be a wave of employment in public enterprises, the public sector, now public procurement, payment of subsidies and support you know because these things are done when people, when, when, when there's a big heat, when people are running into the shade and when people aren't able to or whether they're not interested in politics yet. That is why we in Foreign Affairs want to change it in Croatia, so that during summer and vacation no important decisions can be made on public procurement, employment in the public sector, payment of subsidies, etc. And not only that, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. You see, yesterday, it was concluded in the Government that the Government sent a letter of intent to introduce the EUR means to the European Central Bank, the European Commission, means the Prime Minister and his Government in cooperation with the CNB leadership again want to bring us even more trouble and don't let God succeed quickly in introducing the EUR, they will nail us at the bottom of Europe and we will have ugly problems, we saw it on the example of Greece, and you will only see now which troubles and problems come to Italy and it is the biggest risk for the Eurozone, for the EUR, which nobody here is talking about. That's why we're looking for a debate on the EUR in HS, that this topic should be put in place, we're going to look for all parties, especially the opposition, we're going to ask for a referendum if this aggressively continues to carry out a one-sided, unspeakable, propaganda political campaign on the EUR, means only on one side, but we from the Party are calling on the academic circles, intellectuals above all who understand this area far more to support us, that we simply put ourselves together in the service of citizens and prevent this kind of behavior that can cost us uglyly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146256	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Ivan Pernar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146257	The Honorable chairman, the basic problem is not whether certain things will be regulated by the government or HS as long as it is managed by the country outside. So as long as the ruling majority is managed from the outside. And whether the decision was made by the president, prime minister or by my representatives, it is clear that these decisions will always be in the interest of foreign forces. The foreign force that monetaryally occupied our country that turned our central bank into a currency exchange office and defined money as a debt, and that actually made our country the most involved, I would dare say in the 20th and 21st centuries, which is the debt doctrines, i.e. the conversion of states and peoples into hostages of irreparable debt. Instead of our government that swears that Croatia, to protect Croatian interests, which holds the right hand on the heart, which releases the Croatian anthem, I would dare say even to celebrate Statehood Day and other things, this same government is now planning to abolish our currency kuna and introduce the euro even though most citizens oppose it. The reason for the introduction of the euro is the terrestrial nature. In fact, we all know that our prime minister has come from Brussels and that he has ambition to continue to be in Brussels again. In order to fulfill his political ambitions, he must be attached to that Brussels elite and therefore does not question any directive that Brussels is sending. The case is now about the introduction of the euro, before it was about agreeing to raise the retirement age to 67 years. And of course, that Brussels elite also asked for real estate tax, so after the strong resistance of the people, at least temporarily gave it up. However, his plan is to implement the directives obediently to the end. And for that very reason, I raise my voice here against this policy and against politicians who I would dare call democratic puppets. And why is that? A classic puppet installs a manipulator. So she's set up somewhere to do the will of the manipulator by the manipulator. However, in the case of Croatia, we in power have so-called The democratic puppets elected in the elections but not really represent the will of their constituents but represent the will of these foreign bosses of our country again. Unfortunately, as long as the Croatian people support the service, as long as they have a servant's mentality, as long as the majority of the people are made of half-trons, servants, arrests, sluices, intruders, etc., there are also two other expressions of anal alpinists and rectarians until then, the Croatian people, or the Croatian state as a whole, will be the hostage of these and such people who will thus manage our country as vasals. I remember talking to the former director of the Economic Institute in my time. I told him, sir, so you see the problem of operating our country from the outside. And he said that to me, so Ivane Croatia has always been in a vassal relationship. In fact, Croatia lost its independence 1,000 years ago and then we waited for '90. Of course some people thought we were '41. gain independence but it was also actually a puppet government managed from the outside. So the government of NDH. It was not a Croatian state in the full sense of the word but Croatia was only on paper, only in letter, not in spirit. Also in the '90s people thought OK, it's been 1,000 years of service, it's been 1,000 years we've had a vasal relationship against foreign forces, here's the '90s with dr. Franjo Tudjman, Croatia will become an independent and sovereign state. However, as you all know, it unfortunately did not happen. By converting the central bank into a currency exchange office or by alienating monetary sovereignty, privatising or handing over telecoms, banks, pharmaceutical firms, etc., foreigners were actually subversive against our country with participants who were looking at their personal profits, unfortunately agreed to participate in a subversion whose goal is external and... Domination of our land and our people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By doing so, the rights of our citizens must be systematically violated and the burdens they must pay are increasing. And not only that, 40 billion kuna only gives the state a year to pay off foreign debt, or to pay off loans to foreign banks. Such a policy has led to the lack of money for many other matters because priorities are priorities and the Law on the implementation of the state budget states that loans are first returned in order to settle state obligations. It's only when all the loans settle down that's for the rest of us. And precisely with the goal of distracting attention from the central problem, which is the economic, financial colonisation of our country's mainstream media, means controlled media by political elites are attacking various HDZ ministers, in the latter case Minister Kuscevic. But the question arises why they attack him, or whether they attack him because he really is such a bogeyman or they attack him because they can't attack foreign bankers. According to my guess, Kuščević, whatever he did, it's petty compared to the damage done by foreign banks to our country. So Kuščević is one, I'm not going to use that term Plenkovic's little mouse, but the little fish, he's a little figurine all over that story about foreign governance of our country. And since the mainstream media, controlled media cannot stand up against the dictatorship of foreign banks, because they dare not stand up to those who financially or in debt broke our country, they are now competing with Minister Kuscevic. Of course, Kuščević is not a saint, far from it, but I would just like to tell the citizens that he was Kushčević in the government, was not Kushčević in the government anything with the power to change. However, it is my duty as a person who opposes the external management of our country, namely to manage the country outside, to vote against any minister who is in the service of the government that I consider to be puppet and so is Minister Kustević. So he's in this whole story one side role and he'd dare say collateral sacrifice. I call upon this occasion on the Croatian people to oppose the colonization of their own country and the humiliation of it itself, and why? Because by participating in a subversion against its own country, it takes away the right of its own country to exist, and thus also to be independent and sovereign in its own country. As a result, the regulation imposed by Brussels, the regulation imposed by foreign lollipops, or those politicians who suck up to foreign bosses, who are the real holders of the government in our country, is increasingly regulatory. Our country, or our government, has gone so far off the path of common sense that instead of taking a walk to some homeless shelter in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka or Osijek, our puppet power instead goes to migrant camps in Turkey, drags and migrants from Turkey to the Republic of Croatia, giving them free accommodation in luxury or not to say luxuriously, but I will say nicely arranged apartments prepared for them and gives them free use. Imagine, so the puppet government goes to Turkey, asking these migrants to come to the Republic of Croatia to live and give them free accommodation in our country, while at the same time homes for homeless people are full, while the homeless sleep on the trams, while sleeping on stations, buses, etc. means, or abandoned objects, etc., below the level of human dignity. Unfortunately, our government is ready to show humanity to everyone but our own people, and it's actually becoming clear to everyone that the humanity of this and this kind of government is false, dishonest, and that, in fact, humanity doesn't have any H, our government is just implementing an outside policy. I call on all Croatian citizens to make a revolution in the presidential elections and show that they are sick of this and that kind of governance of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146258	Replica Mr. Lovrinović
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146259	Thank you. I've been counting on something since this morning, writing, while we're discussing whether we should assign government powers over summer and the authority of HS, I see that they don't have most of you know, because if the HNS really means serious, and I don't think they mean it seriously, they don't have most of what we're discussing today, but HNS can do one thing to back down, at least he did one good deed to open democratic processes. But I want to ask you, do you agree? The key role in this government must now be played by national minorities, 8 of them and I call on them to protect and raise the national minorities and to step down from this government of trade because there is nothing we can do, so let's also say that the majority's belief that minorities really work in one direction 'Cause it's inadmissible. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] is that in this situation minorities impose decisions on the majority. [[Intruder: but, you, but, thank you very much, Mr. Lovrinović...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146260	...but you have to stop working because it's, it's past time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146261	We in the Republic of Croatia have a situation that the minority rule over most, we have in the Republic of Croatia a situation that the minority imposes its opinion on the majority. Unfortunately, however, it is not only in the Republic of Croatia, it is happening all over the world, and therefore I want to raise my voice against all those minorities who are oppressing the majority, and I mean those 1% who are fighting us 99%, I mean free masonry and other secret societies that are few, which are minorities, which, thanks to human stupidity, ignorance and naivety, manipulate the masses because they control all possible media. Unfortunately, Mr. Lovrinovic's situation in the country cannot be disbursed by representatives of national minorities because they actually decide very little about it. The only one who can dissipate this situation is the Croatian people in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146262	Thank you very much. Of course I'm not going to comment on that, that's your opinion, but I'm going to comment on one other thing. The thing about speleologists and alpinists shows all the elegance of your eloquence, totally politically incorrectly, you wanted to insult someone, and it doesn't serve you honor. Let's move on, Mr. Sasa Djujic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to do it very briefly, listening to my colleagues before me, I thought we were on the agenda, but then I checked again, so I realized that there was another topic. So, this is a technical law that SDP advocates Club supports, so this is a common practice that is present when, when HS empowers the government to, in certain situations where HS does not meet, it is a summer break, especially in that period when HS is dissolved, it is at an election time, the government can make certain decisions from the part-circuit HS, so we join the same thinking that perhaps these activities carried out by the Government may need to be a little bit more detailed or that it is more visible what the government is doing or that decisions from the part-circuit HS so that it does not get the impression that it is essentially transferring to the Government the full authority that the Government can do what it wants, and the government has never used it, and all the Governments of the Republic of Croatia have always acted responsibly, but purely due to media perception, from the perceptions of the public should not be allowed to come to the public in order to require. Here, it is a clear appeal to some, some future changes, but we support, in any case, this law because the normal state must function even at a time when HS has not been in session and until now the government has always used this mandate minimally given to it by the Croatian Parliament, and since this provision is always for a year and that it stands out for the smooth functioning of the state, this decision needs to be made and the SDP Club supports these amendments of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146264	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146265	Proposal for a Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the HS, first reading No. P.Z. 662, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the HS and second, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant, to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Before the vote, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146266	Dear Mr. President, this proposal requires the government to take over part of the mandate Complementary means, I'm talking about protecting the integrity of our parliamentary representatives. [[I'm sorry in whose name you're speaking.]] Here, since I can't speak I'm bringing you this paper... [[Intruder: You can't speak, please sit down.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146267	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning, please sit down. Okay. Comrade Pernar, what do you want? Here, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146268	Well, I'd just like to say that I disagree with this proposal that the government...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146269	.../ Insect: Please sit down, do not violate the Rules of Procedure, you get a reminder, please sit down./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146270	... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146271	Comrade Grmoy, please, you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146272	Yes, I was reminded by my colleague Lovrinović, I've already warned everyone about it, meaning injury art. 33. We have parliamentary issues that have not been answered for more than a year and a half, I ask you, since this is the last day of the session, the Honorable President, to intervene towards the ministries to start answering, they don't have to answer these questions that were raised two or three months ago, but it's amazing that there are questions that have not been answered for over a year and a half days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146273	Thank you very much. So what you're saying has nothing to do with the subject that we're voting on right now and you're getting a warning, too, you know that. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking the government to insist and they're sending a lot of answers to parliamentary questions, but in this year there are several times as many parliamentary questions as there have been in recent years. So it's thousands of questions that they answer quite quickly, but obviously they don't come at all. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also referred the parliamentary question to the 9th month. Last year, Minister Kuštević. My concern is even greater because he will obviously not be able to answer that question and now I wonder when and who will answer my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146275	A colleague of Maras. You yourself know that you will receive a notice according to the Rules of Procedure because you have misused the Rules of Procedure and the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, and you will hear the answer very soon. You can't, buddy, you can't. You're disrupting the work, you've already received a warning, you can't. Let's go with the vote. So, I've read the conclusion, please let us vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146276	Excuse the chairman, but I am also not responsible for the question of how much money HDZ has stolen from its draft to this day from the state budget, state-owned companies, etc., I would also like to ask the answer to the parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146277	Comrade Pernar, we read a few days ago about you and your family, so I'd like to ask you not to talk about others, first look at yourself in the mirror and then judge others. 87 votes for, one abstention and 3 votes against and a conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146278	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 598 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on the Work of the Pension System and the Social Partnership. I would like to ask the motionary's representative, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Mrs Majda Buric, to give us an additional explanation of the draft of this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146279	... The final proposal of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications which is fully in line with the European Parliament and Council Directive with these final amendments and amendments is before us. [[Speech is not enabled.]] What is important is that the law adopted today in the Croatian Parliament was adopted at a session held on 10 July 2015 and published in National paper No 82/15. First of all, it is also important to explain what regulated professions are in fact, in this sense the concept of regulated profession implies that the conditions for working in a profession are prescribed by a certain law, and the exercise of these regulated professions implies that a person owns professional qualifications acquired after education, whether it is a licence or a professional exam or something like that. For example. persons who have completed a law study cannot immediately work as lawyers but must first obtain a certain working experience, pass a judicial exam and, in that sense, a lawyer is a regulated profession, while the lawyer is an educational qualification. A list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and contains 182 professions. In the second reading of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, the following shall be amended. So we have laid down definitions of professional training and training as well as responsible persons in a company in accordance with the directive, because so far it has not existed. In addition, we have made it more clear that the competent authority or chamber may request additional documentation from the person and specifically in the case of regional differences, or where the regulated profession is differently regulated in certain parts of the country. In the case of temporary and occasional provision of services, we have prescribed that the competent authority, or the competent chamber, is obliged to ensure that the service is provided within one month of the day of the application to that body. And in comparison with the educational programmes, we have prescribed that the chamber can determine the existence of a significantly different content and only if training candidates is different in content and not in anything else. In relation to the minimum training conditions for architects, it is prescribed that the traineeship can be carried out in any country, in order to allow cross-border mobility of experts, and in relation to the minimum training conditions for nurses for general health care and midwives, the explicit responsibility of institutions implementing their training is explicitly indicated. What does that mean? This means that the institution, high school or university, is obliged to comply with its programme precisely with the directive that is implemented in the law this way. We also introduced the obligation for competent authorities to apply for a high-school accreditation or higher-school study programme where the candidate has acquired an education qualification and here we are talking about third countries, and we have introduced an exception to which the competent authority may request the verification of competences, skills and skills without a prior comparison of the educational programme and the identification of additional measures if the professional qualification is also acquired in a third country. In this case, the competent authorities or chambers may, immediately upon receipt of the request, determine the lodging of the so-called so-called. A general recognition procedure involving the previous comparison of educational programmes will not be carried out and no additional measures will be carried out to prevent unnecessary use of resources and chamber resources. Therefore, the objective of those legislative amendments is to ensure adequate labour from the EU internal market, if, of course, it is necessary to fully implement the said Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146280	I thank the secretary of state. We have a replica. Dear fellow Professor Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146281	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Buric, State Secretary, did I understand that I am now a nurse, for example? from BiH, which ended there in 4th grade, 4th year, when it comes to Croatia, it will not be necessary to pass any additional exams but will immediately be nostrated by its diploma and that it can start working the day after tomorrow means at a health care facility. Is that how I am, so I shouldn't, that she won't, that she'll be admitted, that she won't have to take extra exams and that she can start working at a health care facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146282	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146283	Thank you, Mr. Lovrinovic. So, in this case, which you have stated, it is a third country because only what is harmonised is an automatic recognition system at EU level, which is 7 occupations, you are talking about a third country and of course it will need to pass the procedure whether it is complementary measures, whether it is the harmonisation of educational programmes etc., or whether it is a nostrification exam, therefore the procedure is prescribed, and in fact, on the chamber is, in that case, the competent chamber of nurses, it will decide in the things they are applying there, whether it is a nostrification test, whether it is a harmonisation of educational programmes etc., thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146284	Thank you for your response. Would the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening a debate on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Vice President of HS Mr Furio Radin, please welcome colleague Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's about one bill of law, a final bill of law that is far more complicated than it would appear at first sight. I will only read to you what Minister Blaženko Divjak answered when I asked one question in my time, which concerned precisely the possibility of performing a certain, in this case, artistic activity in the Republic of Croatia, and no one could manage such... regulations and what has resulted, as always results from the death of individual fates, means the death of individuals. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What did Minister Divjak say? So it may be that it is given a direct right to work, to deny the right to work or to seek some additional conditions, and unfortunately here I agree with you, it was about music teachers who finished the Conservatory in Italy and who could not teach here because the Education Agency actually did not give enough permission. And Minister Divjak, who has just arrived, I don't know where they've arrived now, but she's just arrived at this, she's just become a minister and, unfortunately, she says, I agree with you, I've found the situation that a lot of these items were somewhere between those regulations, of course, so something extra was asked for. We are, of course, reviewing these procedures, and we will certainly pass a clearer rule, so that those who seek this right can know what is next, and I thank you for your question. However, what I would now point out is that, apart from these really numerous laws and regulations that regulate this topic because we are not regulated by this law, there are a lot of things and internal regulations then, we really need to access the common instrument, which is the qualification framework that will enable us in the Republic of Croatia to through the instruments of the European Qualifications Framework and through harmonisation at the level of qualifications, and not in comparison with the study programme, recognise this right to work and in the professions that are regulated or which are on that list that the Government has adopted in addition to the regular professions. Of course, you are here making some changes that have actually been made under the EU directive. But I have also given here a few amendments that, in fact, whose meaning is in the next, if someone has completed a study in one EU country, that in the Republic of Croatia which is an EU member, can do a job that could be done in that EU country where they finished their studies because it is a qualifying framework for me to say so. So if someone in Germany has finished the German language, let’s take the predicting language, listen to me because it’s very important, which he would have predicted, for example. And a lecture at the school of some other class, then he can teach us this other class. Why? Because this program is like this, but here I'm going to give another example from Italy that I know better than Germany, in Italy, for example. if a person completes an Italian language and gives enough geography tests so that he can also teach a geography. But when it comes here and at the school of national minorities, it is, this problem concerns national minorities because our members usually study a larger number of them, a large number of them study abroad, then when they come here, they come across an obstacle agency that says no, you can't lecture, you can teach Italian, but you can't teach what else such a diploma predicts, in this case geography. And of course if it were just that, it would be one problem that concerns only us from the national minorities, and then it could be solved in one way that is, for example. The operational program, in the operational program, is what we predicted, among other things, but I can't see it's being solved. But that's the problem, which is general. I'll give you another example. If someone ended up back in Italy, in Venice, if they finished landscape architecture, here they can't do it at all, they can't do it at all. Why? Because only those who have completed this work in the university of architecture or who can be an engineer of construction can do it. They mean building engineer can, and someone who's a landscape architect who ended it in a city of art like Venice, can't do that job at all, we've had a recent response from the minister of the competent ministry. In other words, my amendments contribute to the fact that if someone has acquired an educational, professional education in an EU country, that they can do with us a job that could be done in that EU country where they have acquired it, where they have acquired that education. And so on. One, we're changing Art. 5 in the sub-paragraph 8 behind the words of education, the point is placed and words acquired in the Republic of Croatia or in the EU member state are added. In subparagraph 9, the words in the Republic of Croatia or EU member states are added behind the words of the institutions. In subparagraph 13, the words in the Republic of Croatia or in the EU Member State where an educational qualification has been acquired are added behind the words of the competent authorities. And in subparagraph 14 behind the wording of the framework, the wording is placed and the qualification framework of the EU Member State in which the educational qualification has been acquired is added. This is important because many young people from Croatia also go to study in EU countries, then come back here and cannot carry out their profession in, as I would say in a direct way without involving various other institutions. This is the least relevant to your ministry, but the other agencies, the other departments that write the regulations, are calling for that law. They are calling for this law, and that is why I want us to be able, based on your law, to then respond to all these other bodies and to the chambers, if we also want to defend our profession, to accept fully everything that implies a diploma acquired in one EU country. Let's not forget that we're not the best country, it's a euphemism, we're not the best EU country in education, in the 500 best universities of the world, there's only 1 college, and that's the Faculty of Electrical Engineering. If we are to accept education and training and profession, so to speak, which is foreseen in one EU country, we are most likely not to do this to our harm but to our benefit. So I would ask you to seriously approach these amendments because you will not believe it, but especially in regions that are close to the border, it is easier for people to study, for example. in Trieste, in Venice, but in Zagreb, and I believe that universities there are certainly no less good than universities in Croatia, and in addition, as I would say, it is an anti-, Mr Lovrinović, anti-verity approach, I have listened to you before, but BiH is not in the EU, unfortunately yet, when it will be in the EU, then it should be normal for us to accept these diplomas that were acquired in BiH. One day we will hope it will be, but now we accept that in other EU member states there are good universities, good training, that it is for our benefit, and besides that young people will return and will not stay in those countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146286	I thank my colleague Radina for this debate. You won't mind, we still have a few seconds till 13 o'clock, so if no one would mind, I'd move on. 249, i.e. the opinion of the Club of Representatives, since it is foreseen from 12 hours. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146288	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On the day of Croatia's entry into the EU, 1.7.2013 provisions of the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign qualifications began and the law was passed only in July 2015 here in HS. Amendments and additions to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications are adopted in order to comply with the Directive in the recognition of professional qualifications, given that the EU Commission has implemented the evaluation of the adoption of the directive into national legislation and has, through official notice, informed the Republic of Croatia of the results of the evaluation and expressed its doubts and questions raised in the verification of compliance and, therefore, the Republic of Croatia has sent a reply within the time limit and here, and has subsequently joined these amendments and amendments to the law. Amendments to the law will contribute to a better quality system of regulated professions and procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, allowing the foreign holder of a professional qualification to carry out a profession in providing services under the same conditions as domestic experts, thus enabling greater mobility of experts within the EU. Amendments and additions to the law have already been introduced in the first reading and much has actually been resolved. In the case of temporary or occasional provision of services, it is prescribed that the previous qualification check is not applied to professions under an automatic recognition system which refers to 7 professions, these are doctors of medicine, dentists, nurses of the recipient, veterinarians, pharmacists and architects. There is also a clear difference in the sense that a European professional card, an EPC card issued on a business basis does not directly imply a right to work but requires the fulfilment of specific conditions while the EPC card issued for the temporary and occasional provision of services implies a direct right to work. The EPC card is issued in five professions and these are mountain guides, nurses, pharmacists, real estate agents and physiotherapists. And a card issued for business... may have a restriction in the sense that it is necessary to additionally report to the professional chamber or to any other request. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it is issued for the temporary and occasional provision of services the person has a direct legal... a profession without additional requirements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the event of the application of the warning mechanism, it is ensured that professional qualification holders are simultaneously informed of the business warning through a written decision. It is a warning that each Member State sends to other Member States with information on an expert who is temporarily or permanently prohibited from performing a profession in the field of that Member State through an internal market information system that serves as an administrative cooperation between Member States. The obligation of the competent authority to grant partial access is prescribed... professions if all the prescribed conditions are met cumulatively. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Directive sets out the conditions that a person must be granted a partial access to a profession, for example, to do only certain jobs instead of all those normally performed by professionals in that profession. It is proposed that checking the knowledge of Croatian language should be made possible only on professions affecting patient safety and that a check cannot be carried out for professions that are not in contact with patients. So after a person is recognised as a professional qualification, it can be imposed on him to prove knowledge of Croatian language to a sufficient extent to communicate with patients. It is also prescribed that three lists, a list of professional associations or organisations, a list of activities for which access to the profession can be granted on the basis of professional experience and a list of recognition documents will be united in one place through a computer application instead of the publication of individual paper regulations. The computer application will be developed as part of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System project. It is an obligation for the competent authorities to provide information as part of the coordination of the body on the total number of received statements on the intention to provide services in the field of the Republic of Croatia, namely the Agency for Science and Education, the Agency for Professional Education, the Agency for Education and Education, to obtain such information throughout each year. The second reading proposes amendments relating to compliance with the Professional Qualifications Recognition Directive are as follows. Definitions of professional training and training and the responsible person in a company in accordance with the Directive have been set out, since they have not existed so far. Clearer requirements are laid down under which the competent authority may, with mandatory documents, request additional documentation from the person, only in the case of regional differences where the regulated profession is differently regulated in certain parts of the country. In the case of a temporary and occasional service, it has been attributed to the competent authority to ensure that the service is provided within one month of the day of the application to that body. When comparing educational programmes, it is prescribed that the chamber can determine the existence of a significantly different content only if training of candidates is different in content and not in the time period of training of candidates. In relation to minimum training conditions for architects, it is prescribed that a traineeship can be carried out in any country in order to allow cross-border mobility of experts. In relation to minimum training conditions for nurses for general health care and midwives, the responsibility of institutions carrying out their training for the coordination of theoretical and clinical training throughout the educational or study programme is explicitly indicated. An obligation has been imposed on the competent authorities to verify, upon receipt of a request, the accreditation of a higher school or higher education programme where the candidate has acquired an educational qualification in a third country. In the event of a lack of accreditation, the applicant's request will be rejected which will speed up the recognition process and also achieve a credible verification of qualifications acquired in third countries. An exception is introduced under which the competent authority may request a competence check without a prior comparison of the educational programme and the establishment of additional measures if the professional qualification is acquired in a third country. The objective of those legislative changes is to ensure adequate labour from the internal market of the EU and from third countries, subject to the retention of quality in the service provided by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club will support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146289	Thank you, colleague Karlic. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146290	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honoring state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club will support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. In fact, if we look at the reasons and reasons why the law is being adopted, we can see very clearly that the European Commission has actually implemented the evaluation of the transposition of the directive into the national legislation that we made in 2015, through an official notice, informed the Republic of Croatia of the results of the evaluation and expressed its concerns and issues raised in the verification of compliance. The Republic of Croatia has sent a response within the deadline but also through this bill removes everything that has been stolen, knowingly or unconsciously when we have adopted our first, first law which is nothing strange, means from the very entry of Croatia into the EU, since 1 July 2013, when we should have already had prepared, prepared and prepared actions to free this economic space and freedom to provide services, we unfortunately welcomed it a little unprepared, but we were also expected to free up space after 1 July 2013 not only for EU citizens who come to Croatia to enable them in these regulated professions to automatically recognise regulated professions, but also for our citizens who go to EU countries as well. So this two-way communication. Unfortunately, we didn't have these preparatory actions, we passed the law in 2015, but even since 2015, I've been in the Ministry of Education myself through which a lot of these requirements go through, and I have to admit that we've tortured torture on the one hand how to prescribe the procedure, because this isn't just recognition of the foreign educational qualifications that we've been facing, but this is added value. So the fact is that it is no longer enough for you in regulated professions to have a certificate or a degree in the completion of a specific educational programme, but the same as our citizens somewhere need some additional conditions that knowledge of Croatian language, which is the passing of professional exams, the proof of expertise in order to behave, perform a particular profession or profession. And we have faced a number of problems, on the one hand, for EU citizens, and on the other hand what may be an even bigger problem, this is the recognition of foreign professional qualifications among Member States, third countries that are not members of the EU or economic space, and we know that we have Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland. However, there is how some chambers being the same throughout that story have been set up perhaps a little stiff, we have for years had a problem with the Chamber of Nurses although the Republic of Croatia has done everything to say its curricula or then educational programme for nurses and medical technicians, actually overnight while Minister Fuchs was adapting the EU directive, already aligning it to open that space, we know it in negotiations was one of, one of the conditions. But we've come across a lot of problems here, and what he said seems to me, I don't know now which fellow in the name of the club, I think that's a fellow Radin, this is a much more complex question than it looks like at firsthand. I believe that here we will also contribute to protecting our business space, because it is not the same for us, who is coming or must care that we have strict regulation, that we are looking for a standard, that we set the conditions for it to be consistent with the members, the other EU members, and on the other hand for these third countries to be careful that it actually enters our business space, but on the other hand we allow our citizens to move in a two-way, two-way, two-way directional directional direction. We support all these changes, we see by law, that we will regulate by law the area of previous qualifications checks before the first provision of services. We will also regulate what is now a valid limit for an EPC card issued for the purpose of a special creation that has been extended to a card issued for the purpose of temporary and occasional provision of services which was not in conformity with the directive itself. The relevant law also does not highlight the obligation, but provides for the possibility of the competent authority to grant partial access to the regulated profession if all the prescribed conditions are met cumulatively. So this law actually creates appropriate changes to prescribe the obligation of the competent authority to act. It is also important to verify the knowledge of Croatian language where we have actually prescribed by law so far that, in the case of professions affecting the safety of recipients of services, the directive requires that verification of knowledge of Croatian language should only be limited to professions affecting the safety, safety of patients. It is also an obligation for the competent authorities to provide once-a-yearly information to the Ministry of Labour on the total number of received statements on the intention to provide services in the field of the Republic of Croatia, which is good at some way to collect and control, I think, control, collect all these data. The deadlines for adopting a solution on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications are also regulated, so it is little clearer now, the deadlines are, the deadlines are shortened, it seems to me that the procedure will be accelerated. And what about third countries is that it actually allows institutions or the Republic of Croatia to prescribe it if it wants additional conditions with the possibility to mean nostrification tests, which I think is fine because very often, despite the neatly completed documentation, it really cannot identify with certainty the type of level and quality acquired, acquired, sometimes even educational qualifications and this is a big, big problem. Personally, I didn't dare sign any solutions because I was simply not sure, and on the other hand you violate other provisions of the law where citizens de facto, not and the Republic of Croatia, but users have the right and we have an obligation to give them an answer no matter what that answer was. And in conclusion, we need to work on improving the Croatian qualification framework, it is one of the instruments not only of quality assurance, but also of an important instrument in this vertical and even more horizontal transition and easier recognition, recognising what complete, what partial qualifications and I think it will greatly facilitate all of this process not only in regulated professions but also in all other cases and perhaps removing some of the problems with which various ministries and various professional associations can work in some other countries at the moment, as well as that the citizens of other countries are coming to the Republic of Croatia because we also see that we also need to face a lack of labour force regardless of the number of unemployed, we also have deficited interests, and I think that this issue will become one of the burning issues with which we have a lot of responsibility, and that we need to make sure that we have a lot of time to deal with the rules that we are not only the most important and that we are able to put ourselves in the right to deal with the rules that we in the right and the right before we have to do so that we are able to solve. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146291	I thank my colleague, Voter. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, when we talk about whether we should fit into EU directives or adapt our legislation to European law, what is certainly dominant at this point as a problem in the Republic of Croatia is in certain professions a lack of professional staff. And that's what concerns not only our citizens and those who deal with certain professions, here you go now that the tourist season around the city has started or you go to the Adriatic or some stronger tourist place, it's very difficult to find a quality or any worker who will come to work during the season, earn some money or even stay for a long time, it doesn't have to be just during the summer months. The question arises as to how our country deals with this and whether the only task our government is doing, harmonising legislation, and we have solved everything. And who's going to work in our crafts, who's going to work in tourism, who's going to work in things where the chronic lack of education we've had for years isn't the problem since yesterday. Here we have successful entrepreneurs in the Croatian Parliament who are certainly familiar with the problem. So people must be aware that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must also take into account the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Labour how to meet the needs of our labour market for workers in certain professions. The other day I watched on a commercial television, of course, HRT doesn't process these topics, they're interested, they're more interested in the informal announcement of Mrs. Grabar Kitarovic, who says informally to public television, conveys this in his informative news, that he will run for President of the Republic but still does not want to publicly say that this does not burden her work at her post, be careful, but she informs HRT to play it in Dnevnik. So I'm not interested in HRT one of the contributions very quality that she made, so I'm going to say here and I'm going to commend myself, and it seems to me that it's doing RTL TV that made a quality contribution and analyzed the situation that it's impossible to get someone for a craft job or a masonry or some that you're working on, for months because there's no workforce, there's no way to contract a sufficient number of jobs, and there's talk to the owners of the company's crafts and people say, we need people to have more opportunities, we have 10 more, we could hire them, but there's none. The salaries are up, trying to compensate people for everything, but normally people won't stay here for 1000 euros when they can go 200 km further, to Austria and earn 3, who would stay in Croatia to work for 1000, for over a week working in Austria for 5 days, for 3,000 euros, comes here for the weekend 200 km, is not a long way to go. And that's basically what we expect our government to solve. It means that it solves the necessary professions and that conditions are created in these professions and these companies, that people can get a fair pay for honest work. Which is why a plumber in Austria or an electric engineer or just an electric worker who connects electricity makes two to three times as much in Austria when prices are here somewhere, when the job is identical, and when the job ends up doing the same thing here because there are jobs. There is no way to earn such a salary because the state does not care about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the burdens are still too high and people simply cannot pay such income to people to live honestly from their work. And I expect from the government, it's okay to worry about whether someone and that amendment will listen here, there was a colleague's radio, now he's gone, he's talking, I wonder what kind of landscape architect will come from Venice to work in Croatia. And if there is one at all, I mean, he found these examples there, but we really don't understand who would come to work, teach in Croatia from Venice to, maybe come to teach in some university, for some fee, but it will come anyway when someone adequately pays his knowledge, it's not a question of permanent employment, but I'm just curious that someone would come in that way to work in the Republic, except, of course, those exceptions that fall in love with the country or someone and come here and decide to leave their life outside of Croatia no one comes because they have a professional and financial perspective in the Republic because the salaries or income of our citizens are much less than that where they live now. So I expect the government of the Republic of Croatia to solve this problem of labour shortages in certain occupations, in which our fellow citizens, the hosts, and here you had a press conference yesterday, it's amazing to me that the craftsman's chamber, though, is probably me because HDZ is headed by those institutions too, Ranogatec, the mayor of the unscheduled Krapina-Zagorje County, is the president of the Chamber of craftsmen, so he is silent on the invitations of the host to allow a reduction of VAT from this rate, which is now 25% to 13%, which was already in 2015 and to allow for further pay because I can't keep anyone. I can't hold anyone. People from Slavonia in recent years, say, worked the season in Dalmatia, went to Austria, Germany, Italy, and now people simply don't have a chance on a market where people didn't have a job finding someone to replace. And then they find outside of Croatia, there is a limited number of work permits, we see that the ministry has now called, although early they remembered almost in the heart of the season they have issued additional quotas, but this needs to be maximumly liberalised and it should allow people who cannot find adequate jobs and employees on the labour market to do so outside of Croatia, whether it is about the EU or some countries that are not in the EU, which are even more suitable to give us, to hire their people. Which is why we would not hire people from BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, so if people want to work, they can come here, they can communicate, the language is similar, so on that side, they are much more suitable for doing some jobs than they are from some other countries that are also mentioned. So my main objection is not to comply with EU legislation because it is normal. I am, as regards the requirement to carry out certain activities very liberally, I would go as simple as possible that as many people as I can do, except for those jobs that require these specific knowledge when we talk about some service activities, etc., the more we manage to satisfy our labour market, which, despite the fact that there are more unemployed people registered on the market, are essentially crying out for certain professions. He's crying. So ceramics, masons, electricians, caterers or waiters simply don't have enough people and I don't hear those who should be dealing with it, which is HGK, also HDZ's exposure and the Croatian Chamber of crafts, to talk about it at all. It's a marketing campaign, probably with European money on TV, which, unfortunately, will not produce concrete results. Dee's got a hand, and there's a master, so we all know that. We all know that, but from the commercials. not living, let's do something to get our kids to work here, study and stay in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146293	Thank you, colleague Maras. We have a replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I think when we talk about these regulated professions, we have one big problem when we talk about doctors and nurses and technicians. So, from the moment Croatia enters the EU, because this is a regulated profession, it is possible, in a way, to automatically recognise qualifications and free space to go to EU countries, which they use, which is because of higher income, which is due to a better standard for us as a country to find ways to keep people in Croatia. So, the higher the wages, which may be by addressing housing issues and better regulation of registration quotas, i.e. enrolment policies on higher education institutions, because we need to start managing human resources in this way because the labour market, namely its offer and demand, and yet, taking into account this EU membership, unfortunately, is not in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146295	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146296	Thank you very much. You're absolutely right. But I don't see anyone dealing with that problem at all. I don't see that, not only what you said, bigger wages of course, it's a prerequisite, employment, of course there is, but pay is not an adequate, residential question, either, but I don't see another important component that nobody's dealing with. So if there's a lack of nurses or technicians, who's dealing with increasing registration quotas, I don't notice. Who deals with seeing in some other countries, how Germany can do seminars in Croatia, or Ireland, explain workshops, so it is not possible to live the worst in Croatia. Well, I guess we can find a country where we might be able to find some who might be doing these jobs that we lack to interest them in coming to Croatia. Well, we're not an island to ourselves. Is anyone into that? Tell us, State Secretary, did we try to get some people to move in somewhere? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in Croatia? [[Agreement: colleague Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146297	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, we are discussing the proposal of the Law on the Recognition of Qualifications, Certificates, diploma of regulated professions of professions, let me briefly simplify whether we can testify or a diploma for example. nurses coming from BiH, from a third country to the Republic of Croatia to accept and identify as such? You see, I repeat, we change Croatia from the Party, we are serious people, I have seriously prepared myself for this debate in our Health System Committee, and tomorrow we will have a press conference on primary health care, I have spoken with representatives of the nurses, and I am well aware of this problem, and that is why I reported for the debate. As we discuss here, I draw your attention despite your good intentions to resolve this issue, after what I've read and now I'm listening, it won't be a useful solution. Why won't it be? Because the government is still relying on the state, this government, and so are you because here you are representatives of the government, because the institutions, how they will solve this deficit labour problem. Here I have chosen on behalf of the Party to change Croatia, speech and means we are people serious, professional and we are all about solving the burning problem, let's say the chronic lack of nurses and technicians in the Republic because we are discussing exactly that, that's the meaning of this law. Now, what's the problem here you see? We're missing thousands of nurses and technicians in the Republic of Croatia. Let's take another example of BiH, a nurse or a technician comes along, sees a public tender, wants to get a job here, and then comes up with unresolved problems, unsecured problems. Which one? So because the Republic of Croatia is the only country in Europe where the education of nurses lasts for 5 years, please 5 years, it takes up to 4 years. And then what do you do with the 4th year here in the 5th year, so please, who was that pearl who made that solution? Maybe he wanted to turn that nurse or technician into a surgeon so you don't get me wrong, I welcome tens of thousands from this pay phone, 30 thousand nurses and technicians who, by their humanism, love in the Republic have stayed and are doing their job, and everyone knows what it's like to lie down in a hospital bed and when that nurse or technician is closer to him than his brother and his sister and his parents. These are people we don't see, and we don't mostly think until we get where we don't want to go. But they don't care about change, reforming the health system, rights if we don't solve their problem from these positions. Let's what is this solution for us from Change Croatia because it keeps saying that we are party solutions, so here's a solution, we don't reveal hot water, but we have seen what the Germans are doing, here's a proposal from Madam Secretary of State. From BiH, Macedonia, when they come to the Republic of Macedonia, they immediately see that it is an indecisive obstacle, they get on the bus, the train continues to Germany, Austria. What are the Germans doing? The Germans see the same thing, so if she was four years old, that's what she's got, but the Germans are wise, they started mentoring, 2. As soon as the nurse comes to the head nurse at that health care facility, she scans her right away, which she knows, which she doesn't know, and then the mentoring program starts. The head nurse, sisters with great experience during the year seminar classes for up to 2.g. This person is once he has mastered the language of what he needs, he becomes without any problems. But what's the key problem here? They've prevented bureaucracy, they've hired that person immediately, but they'll train her, she won't be able to do everything at first, you know, piece by piece from month to month, so there's no need to invent warm water dear people. But I'm listening to the SDP debate and you HDZs, so you can't handle it, so either you are or you are constantly changing in power, so you finally need people who have knowledge, so here you are, we don't care at all, don't mention us anywhere from Change Croatia, so accept this, don't mention us, we need nurses, do this, take German practice, so let people stay here and stay. What else is the problem? Well, we have an indecisive problem as far as it can be seen that former nurses have been educated for four years. and they still have to make up for a year of practical work and so they get, so to get a solution and a license. However, when they go to other EU countries they can't get the status that they have received in the 5th year, so nothing respected citizens show as well as the dispersion in this country in the past few years as this example and no one has solved this problem of nurses, so I am ordering you dear nurses and technicians, maybe in a few days this government is falling apart or maybe... about the election. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the first solutions and moves will be to solve this, not to pull you into chambers, bureaus, this is how we solve it like the Germans. Why, why haven't you handled this by now in the last 10, 20 years?? You don't care about these things, you're away from problems, from solutions, you're only interested in fighting for power you see, and we who came here, it's not our career, it's just new people, professional first of all and more honest who aren't interested in public procurement... etc., they can handle it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we'll immediately solve the problem of nurses and technicians who ended up four years and five years old to have licenses and solve it. All the others who come from Bosnia, the Philippines, India, we'll do the same mentoring. We don't have time to wait in Croatia anymore, we'll simply move you but I call on the citizens to support us in the elections. It's the key to this country. And not those who court each other in Brussels, in the halls whose greatest achievement is sitting with someone and informing us about it or being the greatest reach that someone from Croatia is appointed Secretary of the Council of Europe, be careful. I'm surprised there's no general folk party organized in Ban Jelačić Square. And you know what powers are in that place? Nothing. Just so you can say I have some connection there. Now let me go back again. Another way of solving, look, I'm, I'm talking to employers, people who work in the healthcare system, health care, care, nurses, so they're out of their minds, they don't know if one, two or more nurses or technicians are going to leave the country after the weekend. Oh, citizens, we're all at risk, dear citizens, we don't feel how threatened we are by this kind of destruction in the health system. Let's apply Madam Secretary of State, don't stick to party disciplines, listen to the profession, if you're not listening to me, listen to the Germans. It doesn't matter at all. But let's do it. Another motive to solve the lack of nurses, the raise of salaries. And now we've heard here, the other side says, "Let's raise our wages that they didn't even mention where they came from." Here's a solution, we from Change Croatia know the solutions, there we are the strongest, only now you will see, which solution. Well, do you know that five billion kunas separate each year from the medical system for the supply of drugs? The average is 300, and we even have up to 600, 700 days. Believe me, I don't look at a single piece of paper, 10% can be saved by the left hand when you turn around. So 500 million kuna. Oh, here's a strong source of pay raises for nurses. I don't have enough time, we have a series of solutions very concrete, savings on interest, etc. And that's why there's been a lot of hollow stories in the fight for naked power in this House, and that's why I call on you once more, is it all up to you to continue to support this system that threatens us or support new people and parties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146299	I thank my colleague Lovrinović. We have replicas, a respected colleague of Sabine's Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146300	Col. Lovrinovic, there is also a 5-year educational programme for nurses and technicians in Germany, and that is something we have accepted in the negotiations when we join the EU. Secondly, I believe that space should be opened, but it also needs to be nurtured. He can come to Croatia a nurse or technician from BiH, Serbia or any third country that does not belong to the EU but must meet certain conditions. The fact that Croatia has, for example, The deficit in logos does not mean that Croatian schools should be flooded with people from Croatia or outside Croatia finish their studies in Mostar because Croatia does not enter enough quotas because simply what they end up in Mostar is not half the qualification we need in the Croatian Education System. We need to set standards and who wants to come but under our terms, all equally. Both the people of our country and those who come.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146301	I'd like to thank my fellow voters. My colleague Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146302	Dear colleagues, I see by this voice, we really are colleagues here that you really are not familiar with the problems. And I meant what you're saying is true. So do you know that the biggest obstacle is precisely to the nurses' chambers, so as long as you put up with them, then the grandmother with the cakes passed away, do you understand? So ask, talk to the people who are of the system, and they go away, and the Germans, the Austrians, the Italians, look forward to it. And so there went 300 and more thousands of people, craftsmen because we have this kind of government, this kind of state that made the best workers build other people's lands. I don't know what to say anymore, what to say to the citizens in the occasional performances of such an emotional charge. Let's change this more and more, it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146303	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Kirin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146304	Dear Vice-President Lovrinovic, the respected state secretary with his associates. You talked about education and nostrification and the start of the ability of nurses to work in other, third, countries, especially if they come from third countries. You scored the nurses' salaries, especially the health care staff. But that's the legacy of the past from the days of the ravine, but it has to change too, it has to work on it. Is the programme in your profession in line with the programme of other EU members and when will it be done and what are the problems with regard to our legacy the diversity of economic theories, the diversity of the political systems with which the economy is linked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146305	Thank you, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146306	... On the question. [[Specially enabled.]] You're a colleague of the health system means as an esteemed surgeon and you know the system. This last thing you were wondering, I think it's the most important thing. So this is where the basic law of the market offers and demand works. No matter what level of standard of living and development we are at if the salary here is low from sisters in Germany or Austria. Now that this drain is big, we're going to have to do one thing, or we're going to work with half the capacity and the quality that's worrying, or we're going to raise the wages. And as we increase, that's what I'm talking about, that's what knowledge needs. So they spoke to Alexander of Macedonia when he was twenty years old, and so much was entangled in this knot that we couldn't crack, he took the sword and hit it hard and it was still familiar to you. That's how it should be done in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146307	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. I would like to conclude the debate, thank the Secretary of State Majdi Buric for the reasons of the bill and the co-workers, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the points of the agenda for today, tomorrow we continue at 09:30 with one notice, we will not discuss the item one scheduled for tomorrow, and this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions due to the absence of the applicant, so we will start tomorrow at 09:30 with item number two, and this is the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Deputy Chief State Auditor. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The session was completed at 13.58. We move to the next statement on the amendment to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, second reading, P.Z. No. 598. The debate is closed, the amendment was submitted by a respected representative, a colleague of the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Furio Radin. I ask the Secretary of State of State at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Mrs Majda Buric, to show us the amendment of a respected colleague, Radin. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146309	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the first proposal, which relates to the definition of the qualification of education, is already contained in the applicable law and in a broader form, and the second proposal does not comply with the directive and the law because the verification can only be carried out by the competent authority of the country in which that person will operate. What I am stressing here is that we find it extremely important for the competent authorities, which are chambers and ministries, to carry out the process of recognising professional qualifications quickly and efficiently. One such example is the one related to the automatic recognition system relating to 7 professions, doctors, nurses, dentists, recipients, veterinarians, pharmacists and architects, and to other professions, especially professors, students and teachers, who are respected representatives of the Radin he spoke about in the debate himself, they are subject to a general recognition system, whose duration depends on each case, individually. We are aware of the importance that experts arriving in the Republic of Croatia should be given access to the labour market as soon as possible, so we encourage and advocate the practice of enabling competent authorities to make it possible for them to carry out their professional qualifications as quickly and efficiently as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146310	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Here's your colleague, Vice President Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146311	I recognize good intentions in the ministry's explanation. But, however. I want to argue that these provisions create a lot of big problems, a lot of big problems. Why? Because then professional organisations, i.e. agencies or ministries, refer back and cyclically to this law, and it happens that we can't deal with border cases that affect most of the regions that are borderline with EU countries and where natural young people go to study in the EU and when they come back, then come across many difficulties here. We have chambers that exist for 5 years, other countries have chambers that exist for 100, 150 years, and you will allow as in the case of our democracy, so in the case of professional organisations, there are certain problems, so I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146312	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-04-0.u146313	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 598, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Furio Radin. We had a statement at a session earlier. The government doesn't accept this amendment, so I'm asking you to vote. I find that it has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 108 votes for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications have been adopted.
