ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145606	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. The proposal for a bill on meteorological and hydrological activity is now in the second reading. I'll just remind you of the basic elements of the law. So the jobs of the hydrometeorological service, the status and authority of the institute have been regulated by the Law on the conduct of hydrometeorological services in the Socialist Republic of Croatia, so the Law that has been in force since '78. A year. He was, meanwhile, 3x changed so that we existed, so there was a need to adapt to this law on meteorological hydrological activity in accordance with the modern legislative environment, and that is why we are going with this proposal for a bill on meteorological hydrological activity. We have settled the following issues with this Act, so providing reliable and timely information for the needs of the fundamental interests of the State, which are defence, protection and rescue, and ensuring the safety of land and maritime transport and for policy-level management, in wider areas of administrative action such as agriculture, forestry, transport, urbanism, construction, flood protection, supply, energy, health, insurance of cultural heritage, etc. This information is based on the establishment of a monitoring state network, that is meteorological, hydrological, meteorological oceanographic surveillance network established by this law on land owned by the Republic of Croatia or on land of regional or local self-government, which has not been a rule so far. In this way, some air-conditioned and umbrella stations have been established so far on private land and are thus not defined as a protected site and are thus not in the so-called area. the protection zones so over time some of them are compromised by contact with building or different inappropriate content and activities in the measurement zone that have violated the credibility of the data. This law therefore corrects this fact in Article 8. The law also defines the clear purpose of the work of operators of meteorological and hydrological activities, and defines the clear distribution of duties, tasks and scope of responsibility of operators, which is also a solid basis for ensuring the means of fulfilling these tasks. The role of the State Hydrometeorological Institute as an official warning centre for weather, atmospheric phenomena and events at sea and water with the aim of preventing confusion and confusion in the public. Articles 13 to 18 define what is the official data, how it is obtained, how it is methodized, how it is published and naturally stored. The novelty of this law is the establishment of a single state system of meteorological and hydrological warnings and the issue of a unique warning of weather accidents which has not been the case in the past. The law defines the security of the operation of the state network of hydrological and meteorological stations. Article 6 defines the activities and financing of the activities of the hydrometeorological institution of interest for the Republic of Croatia and the purpose of revenue from activities exclusively for the development and improvement of its activities. To remind you, revenues are from income, revenues from the Croatian budget from projects and services to users and the biggest users are services of the hydrometeorological institute HEP, Croatian Water, Croatian Roads and other major systems. And finally, direct international communication has not been defined by the old law so far, it is now Article 20 of this Law that is corrected, i.e. the hydrometeorological institution represents the Republic of Croatia in international organisations. The inspection shall be carried out by the State Inspectorate, as defined in Article 23, by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as defined in Article 22, and the implementation of this Act shall have minimal effects on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. There were no concrete objections between the first and second readings except for the observations of the Legislative Committee on the three articles of nomotechnical nature which have been corrected and incorporated into this text. Finally, I would only mention a few facts, so DHMZ is currently taking care of weather, hydrological and state air quality monitoring networks that need to be modernised and automated. In this respect, with the support of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the strategic project METMONIC is implemented, which represents the modernisation of the meteorological monitoring network in the Republic of Croatia, totalling 350 million kuna. The project will establish and automate 450 stations, of which 6 radar stations, 5 meteorological oceanographic floaters, 2 wind profile meterers and set up a platform to collect and control all data. Now let me remind you, in the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has three radars: Chepin, Bilogor and Sljeme, and the Adriatic is currently uncovered by meteorological radar. The RQ project is also implemented, a project to expand and modernise the state network for the permanent monitoring of air quality totalling 110 million kunas co-financed by EU structural funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145607	We have two replicas. He's my colleague Mikulić's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145608	I'd like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, you yourself pointed out the importance of this unique branch for all civil society and for our agriculture, for our economy, for our defence of the country, for tourism. However, in order to have accurate data, we also need to have a good system that will give them to us, so I am interested in what condition are our meteorological, hydrological, phenological, oceanographic monitoring stations state-owned networks, given that they are of great importance to the Republic of Croatia and are there plans and when additional investments in the development and expansion of the state network of observation stations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145609	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145610	Thank you. I think all of these facilities are in the current phase of modernization and I just said that certain means have been provided to make national components, which components from the European Funds. I think now that the project documentation is being prepared and everything that is formally legal in order to bring this modernisation and bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145611	Second replica of the esteemed colleague Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145612	Thank you very much, President. State Secretary, through this law, the Republic of Croatia will strengthen the system of the State Hydrometeorological Institute, monitoring climate change, however, the fact that we have not done enough in that direction in relation to some countries in the environment. In fact, some countries have decided that their bodies are to establish a council to monitor climate change or other name depending on the state where such a decision has been made, because we are witnessing terrible and rapid climate change and we cannot only get used to it as one employee of the State Hydrometeorological Institute said this morning, but we must do everything we can to ensure that we follow the changes in quality and protect both nature and man and property. I think Croatia must make decisions in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145613	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145614	I thank you, Your Honor, for the basis of this law, and for the possibility of just institutionally following this problem, so that these councils are set up in the Republic of Croatia as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145615	Now we're going to ask the committee reporter if he wants to take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of HDZ Representatives, a respected colleague, Domagoj Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145616	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, a bill that we have the opportunity to discuss today is a very correct technical law done by our ministry. It sets out the tasks of meteorological and hydrological activities that are of great interest to the Republic of Croatia. This law defines the jurisdiction, responsibility, scope and content of transactions within these activities as well as the conditions for their implementation. The current practice in the application of more current law has shown that there is a need to adapt to modern legislative institutes, information, investment in systems that are simply necessary today. It is necessary to modernise this activity precisely because of the importance of this unique branch for the needs of the entire civil society, education, defence of the country, traffic management, energy, agriculture, tourism, etc. Its need in all of these segments is given special importance in view of climate change and the numerous weather extremes that we are all witnessing together today and which have a major impact on both social and economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The rapid identification of current and future meteorological changes greatly helps to prevent and prevent or at least mitigate the consequences of changes. Prevention and early recognition of change is particularly important when we consider that in the last 30 years in the Republic of Croatia, 70% of all damages and economic losses from disasters such as droughts, floods, storm winds, heat waves belong to just the factors in the sphere of meteorology and hydrology. Only this data clearly shows that climate information, weather, sea condition and water must be an integral part of every state's strategy to manage and reduce the risk of disasters. It is this bill that regulates areas of legal protection of the work of the state network of meteorological and hydrological stations that I am sure will result in the provision of information of those reliable and timely and for the purposes of agriculture and for the purposes of transport, construction, flood protection, economic activities and everything that represents the fundamental interests of our citizens and our country, but not only in this case of our country and our citizens but also throughout the international community through standardised monitoring and recording of data and changes at European but global level. The adoption of this bill will modernise the legislative framework in this area, ensure the continued maintenance of the monitoring system of the atmosphere and the hydrosphere, whose importance I have spoken of before, ensure the establishment of a single system of warning of disasters, regulate the implementation of international obligations from this activity, regulate the jurisdiction of the State hydrometeorological institution as the executioner of this activity and the way in which it is financed. It is very important that we legally regulate our public information according to the professional methodology and guidelines of the World Meteorological Organisation through the introduction of a category of official data which introduces and responsibility in the publication of data that we have today in public space and in this way the DHMZ will know that it is the exact and relevant data behind which this entire system stands. Through monitoring and systematic collection of data from atmospheric and hydrological phenomena within a unique information system included in international information systems, we provide vital information for the protection of life, nature and material goods. Just including in the unique observation systems, change provides us with a long-term, quality development of this profession in line with scientific and technological achievements at global levels, which, with a clear defined organisation and way of performing meteorological and hydrological activities, is certainly a guarantee of meeting the objectives I mentioned earlier. Because of all of this, the HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Weather and Hydrological Act, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145617	We're going to another club now, it's the IDS, PGS and RI Club, dear colleague Emil Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145618	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity which aims, among other things, to create preconditions for better quality and more efficient collection and processing of necessary data to prevent or at least reduce the unwanted consequences of various disasters and, on the other hand, to welcome this as well as the multi-year work of various scientists, professors, meteorologists, hydrologists and all those who, in various ways, contribute to the construction and upgrade of the system. I believe, and we've heard a little while ago all together that we've been aware of climate change lately and what they're carrying with them, or that I end up painting myself, what they're saying to myself. The effects of climate change are increasingly felt by us in Istria, large time amplitudes from large barns to extreme droughts are increasingly common. In addition to the autumn, the spring floods, the slides, the dives, and everything else that happens when changes are sudden and extreme but I don't want to talk about it so much today, probably someone else will be involved in the debate as much as one other thing. This and the bill of law actually offered me a positive reaction which I would like to remind those who know and intrigue others and actually sensitize the entire public on the problem of lush water streams and occasional short-term floods that have become more and more common with us in Istria. Namely, the Sitar underworld is karst, hollow is, interlinked with various caverns, caverns, which are regularly filled with water during normal rainfalls, but the problems can occur in the super-earth streams. Practically, all the tributaries of Mirna, Rush and the pacical stream are lush water streams. Thus, it is a hilly area of central and northern Istria, which is intertwined with various natural channels and smaller and larger rivers, it is a large plum that includes the Učka and Ćicaria masses and all hills and hills of Pazinština, Buzestina, Bujština. Unlike the low-level part of Croatia where the growth of water stops can be predicted on a daily or multi-day basis, this is practically impossible in Istria. Within a short period of time during the sudden rainfall from all these hills, such a large amount of water is sent down, turning into a stream and destroying agricultural goods and public and private infrastructure. Of course, it carries with it earth and stone material that fills the troughs of the main streams and rivers, thus creating additional problems. If we're talking about the pacical stream, then we certainly have to think about the Pazin Cave, a special natural phenomenon in which the Pazinčica dives but because of the natural syphon system in its sink, sometimes it can't swallow all the water that comes which causes the floods of the entire valley upstream of the Pazin Cave. You see, more than 100 years ago, the Austro-Hungarian monarchy was built on these Istrian hills by a system of small dams, etc. The bristles that were already in the hills were prevented from carrying the mud and stones downriver, as they immediately slowed down the speed of the water itself. This is the time when these razors were built but also maintained by hand, today with all available machinery we do not do. The inhabitants of the area are not clear why it gave up when the system was effective. It is even less clear that the flood defence system was planned to be built in a low-level area where a little more quality agricultural land remained submerged and completely disrupted the natural and climatic microsystem of the area. You know, Italy made one of the two largest food fields in Istria between two world wars when it reigned in Istria and dried up Cepićko Lake and made one of the two largest fields of food production in Istria. Quality countries for competitive agriculture, special vegetable, in Istria there are only in the valleys and this should be kept and protection from floods try to provide as much upstream as possible, prevent the causes themselves. I therefore appeal and call on the problems of the lush streams in Istria to be accessible as part of the programme of protection against harmful activities of water and other protection programmes that exist but in one separate, improved way which will, of course, be part of the entire system but with the built-in specificities of that area because it is simply not the same when the problems of water flow access in the area of Karlovac, when it is in Podravina, Posavina, Dalmatia or Istria, each end has its specificities. I must say that co-operation with Croatian waters and hydro-economic facilities in these areas is very good, in some local self-government and excellent and that many have been done in recent years in terms of protection and maintenance. But this topic has asked me to point out those things that we can do even better because with only a little understanding, conditions on the ground, and minor supplements in the system, we can do much to prevent unwanted consequences, flooded objects, damaged roads, water supply systems, energy and communications, and nothing less important, destroyed agricultural areas, annual crops of farmers. Therefore, an even better monitoring system should be set up, a higher number of measuring devices where necessary, an analysis of all parameters that are measurable but should be introduced in the maintenance system itself as many preventive actions as possible to prevent the consequences from starting at the very beginning in the cause of the problem. I have already mentioned in one debate that our country's wealth is its diversity and diversity, which is why in every part of Croatia it is necessary to approach differently respecting the specificities of this region, both from that social and from this natural aspect. Only then will we have a complex system that will function in every part of Croatia and still be unique for the whole country. I apologize that I may have come out of the content of this bill for a moment, but there are more and more frequent reactions from the local population on the topic in question, which is closely related to this bill. Participation in the debate is quite well-intentioned, criticism constructive in order to solve the problem while it is still time. I hope that this has managed to draw attention to these problems and that quality measurement, observation, analysis and resolution of the cause, and not the consequences, will achieve what we are all trying to achieve, which is the protection of people, property and quality sustainable development. As much as possible by respecting nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145619	The third club of representatives is HSS and Democrats and respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145620	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary of state with the co-worker. Here's on behalf of the HSS Club and the Democrats a few words about the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity. This is an important law, and this activity is important because we are all witnessing rapid and harsh climate change. However, it is not limited to testify that climate change is there, that we have very frequent extremes in temperatures, in the amount of rain, in the wind strength, and the result of this huge damage in nature, on the roads, on the waterways, on the property of our fellow citizens. And we can't just get used to it or get used to it, but we have to say sharply that we're not satisfied with what we do as a society in general to protect nature and to prevent such major climate change. Of course, this law will define the obligations of the authorities of the state, above all DHMZ which should be done to monitor climate change, to report to the public in quality, but above all, that food production could be planned in a high quality way, so that energy production could be planned, and tourism season could also be planned. I said in a replica to the Secretary of State that Croatia did not do enough because countries in Slovenia, Hungary and Romania even went a step further, except for this and this law have a special state body composed of an inter-resor group, the Council for Climate Change Monitoring, which actively participates in monitoring climate change, giving a subport to their public authorities and making decisions spotlessly because we can no longer wait. Unfortunately for the changes in nature and the fact that it is primarily human does not care about nature because it is the cause of climate change, we react only when others warn us. So here we were recently warned by elementary school students, high school students. There was a recent protest in Zagreb here and throughout the Republic of Croatia. So does only young people care about having a healthy, clean environment tomorrow and having a nature in which they can live or should we all care? I think we should all care because there is no food production planning in the world and neither in Croatia without monitoring climate change, no energy production, no development of society. If we have, as we have these days, terrible extremes in the temperatures, in the amount of rain, in the great damage of the floods, in the great damage to agricultural cultures and property of the fighting. Have we done enough to protect our nature, our environment, our production? We didn't. We are not because we often run for capital, for profit and not watch it reflect on the environment, on the nature and quality of life of our fellow citizens, and above all agricultural producers and people who are in the economy. Because we can't agree that it's more important for us to produce energy from hydrocarbons or some other sources without missing the use of nature through wind power plants, through solar power plants, through other types of renewable energy sources from biomass and thus meeting our energy needs because it seems like we're importing some energy, we're not energy independent. And the fact is, we don't make enough food for our own population, let alone export what these days are talking about as creating assumptions about food exports. So who's against it? But first we have to organize this production in a way that we have self-sufficiency in our own country for food and only then think about exports and unfortunately we do not have it in any branch of agriculture starting with livestock, meat production and finally here is the production of cereals. Because the absurd fact is that last year we imported 53,000 tonnes of wheat from BiH in which we were exporters and exported. Which says that we don't plan for quality production, that we don't protect it enough and that we certainly can and need it. Because the truth is that we are not aware enough that these climate change is not in itself, that it is not cyclical, that it is normal but it is here and international organisations warn that the glaciers are melting twice as quickly as it has been, that we have too often changed in the amount of rain, that in one day 100, 150 millimetres of rain on m2 and that simply nature can't handle it, and especially should it be pointed out that the more we have spoken, the too much of these are cutting down the forest is the problem that needs to be repeated, because these forests have stopped that amount of rainfall as long as they have kept in the woods, it didn't go straight into the water streams and did not happen as much damage as they did in Slavonia, especially it was expressed in the municipality of Cernik, Rešetari, Okucani and when the word of hydrology clearly does not seem to be enough to protect the population. I have repeatedly highlighted the need to build retentions and accumulations, they have Croatian waters in their plans, but very few or not have been built. There is now a large accumulation of Longja in Požega-Slavon County, but for 20 years it has been built. We must no longer ignore it and wait for it, there are needs and municipalities of Pokkraj and Cernik and Rešetari, and are not satisfied local leaders with the Croatian waters of this problem, because every year they have great damage on the roads, on agricultural cultures, on the second infrastructure of these streams, the Sava stream, from these streamers, because it is impossible that this is how water is now arranged, taking so much water in such a short time, means the only solution is for us, but that's what the profession said, but they also have in the spatial plan of the county, planned accumulation of retention, why aren't they built? Who will compensate for the damage to these citizens, and the property has been destroyed, who will allow additional sources of income from local self-government units to be re-scheduled, and the roads that last year and the clans were recovered? Nobody, we're on our own again. Now, this is not a good message and these climate change is very big, yes, we can't locally, as Croatia's small country influences it but here, we should congratulate Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric on the elections for the Secretary of the Council of Europe but it is an opportunity that through and the Council of Europe, Croatia says we can no longer only get used to climate change than we have to ask the world, especially from Europe that must resist this wild capitalism of Trump, the United States and other states that avoid signed CO2 emissions contracts in nature, we need to be louder. We need to be more active in that plan and I believe that Mrs. Devereaux will. The secretary of the Council of Europe and put it in the work programme, I think it is certainly necessary on the basis of these examples that I have cited. I would also briefly refer to the problem here, what is in DHMZ's activity, which is the implementation of the Law on Defence against Fight. On April 15th, I wrote to the Ministry of Agriculture and the DHMZ to answer how they spent the funds they collected in 2018 or whether they issued a public call for the purchase of rockets and reactors for work stations throughout Croatia to defend against the fight. They didn't call the competition, they didn't get anything, they didn't get a rocket or a reagent, if I had good information and what's still devastating, that apparently someone didn't want to implement the active Law of Defence against Fights in the Republic of Croatia, I would like the Secretary of State who it is, whether it's your ministry, DHMZ or the Ministry of Agriculture because income and DHMZ have both of the counties, both from the Ministry of Agriculture and from the insurance houses for the implementation of this law. What's the use of that money if it's not got the missiles and the reagents? And it is particularly devastating that out of 300 approximately stations from which urban, tuxedo clouds are affected, all 100 are active, 100 are allocated these remaining supplies that have rockets and reagents and the fact is that only Eastern Slavonia is protected, most of the rockets are in Osijek County and something in Vukovar-Srijem. What's this part of the West not supposed to protect from a missile fight? It is incorrect that neighbouring countries do not act, here yesterday, when there was a threat of a fight in Savina, the municipality of Davor, Dragalić, Vrbje, they heard the launch of rockets in BiH, so they operate and this system can only be effective if we act systematically with countries in the environment to respond in time to a beating cloud that comes through the Sava because it is too late when he crosses the Sava and is effective only if all 300 stations operate and not just 100. So I'm asking you who made this decision that the carnage system works, that no rockets and reagents are being obtained, and that what happened these days, that we have huge damage to agricultural cultures and property, that we have an increased incidence of beatings, and that's in the form of tennis balls or golf balls, no more pea beans. So there's more of a fight, there's bigger damage and we act less, whose interest is that? So just import lobbys, so do we work for import lobbys or do we work for our farmers and our farmers? How to plan production under such circumstances? as planning the production if we had a drought in Baranja this spring, so part of the culture is too brown, and now what's after that, it's destroying stormy weather and fighting. What does it seem to prevent that? It is not one of the solutions and the insurance of crops and crops, but we are all witnesses, so I hear it every day from our agricultural producers that the benefits of the insurance houses are so small that they are not satisfied with them and what is even more important is that if they lose a year, they lose their birth from these cultures and the market, they lose their customers. Who's gonna make it up to them? No one. And that is why we need to engage more actively in the adoption of this law, the implementation of the law, the involvement of other bodies in the implementation of this law and the overall pressure of public change to start from man, that we are the ones responsible for increased CO2 emissions in nature, and that is why one of the reasons but also the greatest climate change is changing and we have such extreme climate change. And, of course, I can't help but say in final terms that part of the job is through this law and monitoring the quality of air. Yes, we have a problem with air quality in both Zagreb and Rijeka and Sisak, but here we have more than 10 years in Slavonski Brod. And these days, there's increased concentration of ozone above allowed. Currently, the Refinery isn't supposed to work, the question of whether it will continue to work, but it is crucial that we have spent these two years on agreements, negotiating to change energy, that it is being gassed, I hope it will be soon in a year, two almost, and not in three months as the president announced. And we hope that we will exert stronger pressure as a member of the EU on BiH that their production, their economy must respect European environmental standards. At this point, we have not done enough and witness daily increases in both ozone and floating particles and H2S and other natural gases. And of course there's a potential danger from leaks in the Sava River, part of those energys stored there because the fact is that in that refinery it hasn't invested in in years. And I say the same problem is in Sisak and Kutina, Zagreb and Rijeka, and we must all be aware that we are starting to care about nature and the quality of air for a healthy and clean environment that we must leave for generations to come and not wait for the young to warn us about it. I think it's all of us's interest to protect nature and make up for everything our producers have lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145621	This is what ended the club debate. And we're going to an individual debate. The first is the esteemed colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145622	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. I applied for an individual debate just to briefly highlight one segment of DHMZ's work relating to a maritime meteorological centre in Split. But before that, I would say that the debate is in my opinion and I don't think I'm wrong about the longest law in the Republic of Croatia. So the basic law that we will be voting on and I hope to change, i.e. the new law has been in force since 1978 and since then has been changed four times but is still in force is the law that was passed at the time of the Socialist Republic of Croatia. And it is also clear that it is necessary to approach for a number of reasons, and these are the reasons in this, in this explanation and stated, its amendment or the adoption of a new law. It is an activity that was organised 70 years ago and that is extremely important for every citizen in Croatia because I believe there is not a single citizen who listens to the news, reading the press does not follow the weather forecast. And this particular weather forecast data that is important for the man for the entrepreneurs, for all those involved in the traffic are precisely data that unites, collected by DHMZ. As I spoke in my first reading about the importance of the Maritime Meteorological Centre in Split, I will now just say a few words that I have then stated and I think are extremely important. I said that as Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in 2006 I was the head of the port-finding project, shelter in the Croatian part of the Adriatic and that the most important institution that helped the Ministry to establish the port of shelter was the Marine Meteorological Centre in Split. In fact, it seems to me that at the level of the international maritime organisation in 2000, after having had two tankers polluted the Spanish and French coasts, they were called Erika and Prestige and whose name was said to have been polluted by disaster, oil spills, polluted much of the Spanish and French coasts at the level of the international maritime organisation decided to address this problem systematically in such a way that, when a ship's hararium along a certain coast, certain places so-called. the ports of shelters where these tankers that are in the hawari are towed and then knowingly destroy one port in order to prevent the expansion of oil pollution or other loads of the entire coast which is then opened and exposed to pollution when that tanker or that ship is 20, 30 miles from the coast itself. And we were then in the Adriatic area with the Marine Meteorological Centre in Split on the basis of data that this centre has owned for 70 years, precisely we could determine under certain weather conditions that are on the Adriatic and in case at any location in the Adriatic, such a disaster occurs we drag into conscious sacrifice of certain ports. And then we did something that no state, coastal state in Europe did, and I don't know whether in the world or not, and that's that we didn't... to a small number of ports and precisely thanks to the data of this Maritime Meteorological Centre in Split than we have established 303 ports from Prevlaka to Savudrija in which, in certain weather conditions, depending on the weather forecast, depending on the sea condition, we would drag some kind of a ship into the sea, which was in the havarium or would threaten to polluting the sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, he wanted to then, and now here is just a brief indication of what it means, not only the State Meteorological Institute as an institution, but all its segments, and I think Article 7, paragraph 5 of this law provides for the organisation of the observation service, monitoring stations and hydrometeorological stations throughout Croatia, but certainly one of the most important segments of this institution will be this maritime centre. So then I wanted to say that this is also the way here in these opportunities and projects and studies is a huge contribution from the State Hydrometeorological Institute. What I would like to say is that all of us who are with the Adriatic are bound by the Adriatic, with the Adriatic that we are sailing, and I am sailing at least 3.4 times a week, we are very much following the state of the sea and the data sent to us by the Maritime Meteorological Centre in Split. How much information I have, and I've heard this from the Director of the Maritime Meteorology Center, I think at this point we're dealing with business spaces and it would be a good quality to equip the meteorological center. So here is now as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowing the importance of this centre for all sailors, for all people living by the sea and by the sea, for all fishermen, for all those who wait a few times a day with, waiting, waiting for data as is and what is the state of the sea in Croatia it would be good to enable this centre to find the means to improve the working conditions of this Maritime Meteorological Centre. Here I will in any case support this law, the law is good on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Mr Mikulić spoke of the arrangements of this law and its importance, I wanted to single out a segment which, in my opinion, is extremely, extremely important to us who live by the sea and from the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145623	Thank you. And we're going to the final presentation of the motionor, honorary Secretary of State Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145624	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I thank you for your understanding and for your support for the adoption of this law. There is no fellow respected representative Vlahovic, I will just say that he stays for the public, that not always the topic of ice protection remains, to be beaten. Therefore, the State Hydrometeorological Institute manages meteorological and hydrological infrastructures, so it manages air quality monitoring infrastructures and the national archives of meteorological, hydrological and related data. Control over the implementation of the Law on the Defence of the Fight System, which has been in force since 2001, has been carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. So, this is not the jurisdiction of the State Hydrometeorological Institute, but as a society, we must define ourselves on this subject and say finally which, which is the direction of protection against ice cream because we have the opinion and the VTO of the world meteorological organisation which says that, therefore, there are scientific opinions of the scientific expert community that protection from agricultural goods from fighting is solved by physical protection, therefore by protection nets or insurance systems acceptable to the wider circle of users, and not by the system that we have today, because this system of protection against ice cream in the EU therefore does not exist. There is no operational defense against fighting at national meteorological level. As such, it exists only in, with us and in Serbia. In other EU Member States, fighting defence exists only in small areas, it is implemented on the initiative of individuals, associations or local self-government. Generally, ground-floor generators or aircraft are used. This is something that is intensities today in the EU, we need to identify which way we will go about financing, so there are legal obligations to co-finance defences against the ice and by the state and by regional self-government. So, the state regularly fulfils its 9 million kuna commitment every year, the problem is that part of co-financing by regional self-government that in a certain way interprets the funding obligation up to 0.1% and one pays up to 0.1%, while others pay 0.1% which is a big difference so that we don't have the continuity of co-financing by the county. There's even data in the last 10 years that's been interesting to see how any county behaves in that sense. And then we see that the total budget for this purpose is about 12 million kuna a year. I'll just say that according to the 2017 data I received from the Hydrometeorological Institute of those 12 million, 5 million kunas cost only rocketlers or people who serve the ground-floor generators, 3 million costs of liquids, so we already see that we don't have enough resources to operate a defense against the glacier. That's what this old man needs, something to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145625	We have a replica of a colleague, Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145626	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, the role of the ministries is to enforce the laws, the Law of Defence against Fight is in force in the Republic of Croatia and must be implemented or abolished, but while it is in force must be implemented. And I took part in several gatherings where the scientific community is divided about how effective is the defence against missile and regent fights, and certainly it is not effective if the fur works, that of 300 stations only 100 is equipped and that 100 works. And parallel to that, that's your problem and that's 200 jobs in Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem because these rocketers are receiving their compensation for that part. So while you have to use it, this tool, and especially as much of the income is provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Insurance, the county is only 10.15% of the total income. So there were funds but there was no will.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145627	Answer. There's no answer. Then we've come to an end, I've concluded the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity, second reading, P.Z. Number 629. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity, please vote. I find it unanimous with 93 votes to pass the Weather and Hydrological Activity Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145630	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 5 April 2019, a conclusion was reached which adopted the Proposal for a Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families and all observations, proposals and opinions were made in the debate addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Allow me in the introduction to say a few words about this law and then later the difference between the bill and the final bill. The area of entry, residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia has been governed by the Act on Foreigners, which has been in force since 2011 and has experienced 3 novels, 2013, 2017 and 2018. The law on foreigners contains provisions relating to the entry, stay and work of third-country nationals but contains specific provisions relating to citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. These members, therefore, of these citizens of the European Economic Area on 31. 5. In 2019 in the Republic of Croatia there were 7334 persons with registered temporary stay and 6399 persons had a permanent stay. The law on foreigners has become too widespread and somewhat difficult to apply, so it is proposed to pass laws that will only regulate the status of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. This is mainly the case in other EU countries, i.e. European economic space, when this matter is regulated by a special law and by a law on foreigners whose new proposal is currently under way, only the question of staying and working citizens, etc. third countries. The adoption of this law before you will allow for the regulation of the residence of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families as prescribed by the Council Directive of 29 April 2004 on the rights of citizens of the Union and members of their families on freedom of movement and residence in the territory of a Member State. Therefore, this concrete law proposes to lay down the conditions for the regulation and termination and permanent and permanent stay of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, to define the conditions for the termination of the legal stay of these persons, as well as the restriction of movement, accommodation in the reception centre and forced distance from the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to work, citizens of the European Economic Area can work in the Republic of Croatia and provide services without permission without a specific permit or certificate of application of work and also members of their families. Namely, up to three months. stay in the Republic of Croatia, EEA nationals and members of their families are not obliged to report their stay and to stay longer than 3. i.e., they are due no later than 8 days before the end of those three months, to report a temporary stay for work in the competent police office or station. In order to report a stay for the purpose of work, only a valid identity card or travel document and a certificate of work shall be required, hence a working contract or proof that the person is an independent employee. In addition to this, given the fact that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland will become as things are now, most likely a third country because it has launched the EU's abandonment procedure provided for in Article 50. The EU Treaty and the British Parliament have not yet confirmed an agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, this law proposes and stipulates that the citizens of the United Kingdom will, therefore, retain a temporary or permanent stay that will have, at the time of the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU, and the obligation to give rise to a new residence permit within a certain period, in accordance with the regulation governing the stay of third countries. Of course, this issue is currently trying to regulate the other 26 Member States other than the Republic of Croatia, the Member States have mainly prepared certain indicative or transitional ones, some even calling them the omnibus laws of so-called. Brexit, which states that the changes of the unregulated Brexit will cause and in which segments the rights of citizens and business communities will therefore come into question, or which laws will have to be amended in order for citizens and business communities to continue to operate or live, to work with as little difficulty as possible. Many of these regulations also provide for a certain transitional period within which citizens of the United Kingdom would, therefore, retain all or part of the rights in the EU and get enough to regulate their status. In this law, therefore, there has been no need to regulate all those issues that can mostly be regulated by the issues of entry, stay and work, which has so far been regulated by the Foreign Law. Otherwise and here is for your information on 31.5. this year a total of 643 citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland who have a regulated stay in the Republic of Croatia are registered, 333 persons are on temporary leave and 310 are on permanent stay. So, it is a relatively small number of these people, but the Republic of Croatia will try to regulate their legal position in a way that the less they feel the consequences of going out, and we also hope that it will also apply to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the United Kingdom. For this reason, the full transposition of the directive that I mentioned in the introduction into Croatian legislation will take place, so it will take place when the adoption and entry into force and the Regulation laying down the conditions for entry and stay in the Republic of Croatia of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families are adopted. So, when sublegal acts are passed following the adoption of this law. And in short, I would like to mention the differences, most of the Committee's remarks, primarily the Committee on Legislatives, which was nomotechnical in nature, have been accepted. In part, the remarks of Representative Ranko Ostojić during the debate in the Croatian Parliament were accepted, as well as the remarks of the Ombudsman during the consultation with the interested public. In this regard, a meeting was held with the Ombudsman’s office between the two readings, and the provisions prescribed by the provision of accommodation in the reception centre for foreigners were deleted in Article 58 in case a European Economic Area citizen and a member of his family did not have a registered stay, no secure accommodation and had insufficient financial resources. In addition, only one type of criteria for assessing the existence of risk of avoidance of avoidance obligations of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed, which is otherwise a reason for limiting movement by accommodation in the Receiving Centre for Foreigners. The third period on which accommodation can be extended in the centre of the EEA Member State and its family member has been reduced from 12 to 3 months. Mr Ostojić's objection to legal uncertainty regarding the provision of Article 81, which has been prescribed that the law enters into force 8 days after publication in the National Journal, except for a provision governing the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. In fact, if the United Kingdom exits the EU without a final agreement, the citizens of the United Kingdom will become third country nationals. Since there is still no accurate date for the United Kingdom to leave the Union, nor whether it will come out with or without an agreement, Article 75 of the final draft of the law intends to protect the citizens of the United Kingdom who already have a regulated stay in the Republic of Croatia. During the preparation of the final draft of the law, some objections from ministries and other bodies that were authorised to be manifest were also respected, so it was extended that citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families had to apply for a residence card and residence permits and it would be within one year of the United Kingdom's exit from the EU, not as it was in the bill of law within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. In addition, in order to facilitate access to residence cards to be issued to citizens of the United Kingdom and to members of their families, a sign of the scope of the rights they will have will also be entered. So it will be recorded on the residence card itself. Here are the basic changes or differences between the bill and the final bill that is now before you. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145631	I thank the Secretary of State. We don't have a replica, so I'd like to ask the committee's rapporteur if she'd take the floor? No, then we move on to the debate. The first is the club of HDZ MPs, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145632	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, here is the area of entry, residence and work of foreigners in our country until now has been governed by the Law on Foreigners, which has had its amendments in 2013, 2017 and 2018, and the conditions of entry, movement, residence and employment of third-country nationals and nationals of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, as well as the conditions of their work and rights of posted workers in the Republic of Croatia. Here we also had a debate through the first reading and at the previous first reading we heard the remarks, we heard the secretary of state reported what was respected, which was accepted. The purpose of this law is therefore to enable citizens of the European Economic Area to stay in our country. Since the Law on Foreigners, which included representatives of third countries as well as citizens of the European Economic Area, is therefore the issue that we have discussed over this law and we are adopting. We therefore bring it in for one simple reason why the existing law has become and is too widespread for application and with this law we practically single out the part that applies only to the citizens of the European Economic Area and their families. All other issues and matter will continue to be governed by the Foreign Law. Therefore, the provisions of the law on nationals of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their family relate to all EU Member States as well as to Norway, Liechtenstein, Iceland and the Swiss Confederation, which is for members of the family of Croatian citizens, which has also been highlighted by the State Secretary who are nationals of those countries. The adoption of this law will allow for the regulation of their stay in accordance with the Council of Europe's Directive on all issues covered by the Member States of the European Economic Area. I would not particularly repeat them here, nor mention the concepts defined by this law, from the notion of a citizen to the definition of that concept, regulation, regulation and temporary stay in our country. Article 2 The Council of Europe Directive defines who are members of the family, who are holders of the rights hosted by a Member State in accordance with national legislation facilitates the entry and stay and which do not fall under the family category referred to in Article 2. We also heard that this bill of law, which has also prescribed a temporary stay, can also be approved for the purpose of bringing the family together, as well as the definition of marriage, is an extramarital community of women and men, therefore taking into account the Life Partnership Act. It is therefore prescribed that temporary stay can be approved and for the purpose of life partnership, and this law will not cost us anything further. Therefore, there is no need to provide additional resources and we are practically ensuring that that directive is fully transposed into Croatian legislation and will enter into force by way of a Regulation laying down the conditions for entry and stay in the Republic of Croatia of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. And in that sense, here is the HDZ Club, which supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145633	We are going to a second debate of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145634	... MPs, I welcome the acceptance of certain remarks which we pointed to during the first reading, but what I would like to look at, which is that no much more significant objections have been accepted regarding Article 9 which has not resolved the clear status of the European Economic Area citizen who, at the border crossing, refuses to enter the Republic of Croatia, is also indicated by the Advocate General. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The measure itself as regulated is not a good solution. This justifies, in fact, that it is only air and maritime border crossings, I think it should be fully defined, and that is in some way the same thing I'm saying about the same unacceptable remark on precise provisions when it is actually not respectable.../incomprehensible/... legislation and only the adoption of the law in relation to Article 75, he says it will take effect on the date of the exit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the EU without a final agreement on the withdrawal of those from the EU. We cannot prejudge how it will come out, therefore this solution is absolutely not good because I have to highlight the question of how and how it will come out, whether it will become third-country nationals should not have been regulated in this way, but the Good Proposer remains in that it is better to resolve it now than to face the fact of what is really going to happen. I would like to point out another illogicality in Article 4, which is a very practical question, which means a third-country mother who comes to the border of the Republic of Croatia with a child citizen of the Republic of Croatia must obtain a visa as if she were going on vacation. So, in addition to his mate, he can, but with his child's escort, he can't. This is a provision that states that a member of a family who does not have a valid visa accompanying or joining a citizen of an EPG Member State and which does not pose a threat to the public order, national security and public health of the Republic of Croatia will issue a visa at the border crossing point. You see, this is a strange provision that is likely to lead to significant problems, and can be solved in Article 4. So under point 1. we added a parent, because when we had already widely interpreted, and this is also progeny by blood in the vertical line until the age of 21, etc., everything else was listed, then it was not bad and it was solved. All in all, I say the law myself except for these formal parts that have somehow prejudged the story I think it solves the quality way of staying people who are members of the EPG. In other things, the alignment and others, maybe we didn't have to rush like this, we could also be in a variant of a country that would provide for me to stay and all the other obligations around people. With the fact that I must once again point out I welcome the abolition of those restrictive measures, which were applied from 12 months to 3 months and the acceptance of the objections of the Ombudsman. So we'll still make a decision on this, see how the SDP Club reacts at the end or the amendments or similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145635	We are now going to the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic is not here, so he loses his right to speak. And then we're going to the club of representatives of the HNS, the esteemed goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145636	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we heard that this law was passed for reasons because the current Foreign Law was too widespread and that it was really necessary to regulate EU citizens. That is why this law, which is in line with the Council Directive and regulates several things, defines the concepts of what is a citizen of EU Member States, prescribes the conditions for the regulation of temporary stay, the conditions for permanent stay, when the suspension of temporary and permanent stay is determined. It clearly defines the conditions for the termination of the legal stay of citizens of members and their families. The law also addresses the problem and the issue of UK and Northern Ireland citizens because we know that they are in the process of abandoning EU membership. So after leaving, citizens will still be able to remain in the area that without further ado, they will be regulated and passed by law, in fact they will be third-country nationals but given the specificity I think they must take a position and certainly want to see the EU as to how they deal with UK citizens who at that time have a regulated residence in other Member States as well as for the future. We are pleased that there has been a series of changes compared to the first reading and that they have indeed accepted the proposals of the MPs, proposals from the Ombudsman, the board of directors, as well as other ministries that have been involved and made their constructive proposals, objections and they are included in the Final Proposals of the Law. So in Article 57. The final draft of the law according to the observations were respected and we now have, was the observation that the law is too restrictive and repressive so the provisions prescribed by the establishment of accommodation in the reception centre for foreigners were deleted in case the citizens and members of his family did not have a registered stay and secured accommodation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The final proposal provides for an extension of the accommodation on the reception centre for foreigners. The period on which accommodation can be extended in the centre of the citizens of the Member States and a member of his family has been reduced from 12 to 3 months. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 6(4), which is also added as health insurance is regulated, we have a new item in Article 14 which gives the Minister of Internal Affairs the prior consent of the Minister of Justice to prescribe the rules on the way in which data from the criminal record will be sought and delivered. We also have in Article 65 where a new item has also been added to regulate the costs referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be considered to be the costs of accommodation of the centre and other costs incurred during and related to the forced distance of the citizens and members of its families. And we also have amended the provisions of Article 75, paragraphs 5, 6 and 7. The final proposal of the Law in such a way as to prescribe that the period of validity of the certificate of registration of temporary residence and residence cards or the period within which citizens of the UK of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and members of their families are obliged to apply for the issuing of a residence card and residence permit. I have already stressed that some general agreement and attitude at EU level will be achieved and will be resolved accordingly. So, the law has been improved in these amendments, all good proposals have been accepted and the HNS will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145637	We're done discussing clubs, so we're going to an individual debate. Dear colleague Miro Kovac has signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145638	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am not going to speak for long just to say that this proposal for a law on citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families is a very good model in order to resolve the issue of possible exits of Great Britain from the EU in a very elegant way, I would say so, all EU Member States have started preparing in time for the possible exit of Great Britain from the EU and Croatia, in this case the Croatian Government and this bill therefore cover certain provisions that ensure that the current status of UK citizens and members of their families in the Republic of Croatia does not remain unregulated in view of the ongoing negotiations on Brexit and that UK citizens and members of their families would not remain unregulated at the time of exit from the EU. Why is this important? This is important because we also need to increase predictability in Croatia, certainty, we cannot affect events in the UK, we follow the movements there on the political scene, we will be elected very soon by the new Prime Minister, in which we will go, we want to go to some new UK and EU agreement, whether there will be an exit without any agreement, neither the British nor our colleagues in British politics themselves, and it is important for us here in Croatia to send them a message that we are taking care of ourselves and that we increase predictability of the process in Croatia and the world, so I welcome this bill and this contribution of the Croatian government to increase predictability of the process in Croatia and the world, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145639	I thank you, we have reached the end of this debate, I conclude it, we will vote when the conditions are met, and now we will take a break by 12 hours, given that for the next two points the conditions have not yet been met, the committee responsible, the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy must do its session, it is at 11 o'clock and the sequel goes at 12 o'clock with the first item or the third item of the agenda, at 1 o'clock there will be free speeches and then we will continue with the Police Act. Thank you. It's 10.52 o'clock. Final proposal of the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, second reading, P.Z.E. number 602. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is concluded and I am voting on that final draft of the law. I find that with 86 votes for and 2 abstentions, so most votes are passed Law on citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145641	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, second reading, P.Z. Number 554 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 192. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We have Mr. Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the MUP. Here you go, Mr. Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship. The law that was passed or entered into force on 8 October 1991, so at the time of the independence of the Republic of Croatia, is one of those laws that define Croatian statehood by prescribing how Croatian citizenship can be acquired. And as the law provides, it can be obtained by origin, it is obtained by the largest number of persons, so from the parents of Croatian citizens, it can be obtained by birth or naturalisation, and it is a process which, in most of the part of this law that is described before you, can be obtained by international contracts and birth in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, this case that it may not be misleading only when parents are not known or if parents are unknown or, for example, the child has been found or the parents of unknown citizenship. In these amendments and the additions that lie ahead of you, the main objective of the promoter i.e. The Government of the Republic of Croatia was to facilitate or simplify the procedure for obtaining Croatian citizenship of members of Croatian people abroad and emigrants from the Republic of Croatia, thus valorising the contribution of Croatian emigrants and Croatian peoples living abroad to the overall economic, scientific, cultural, social and any other form of life in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the most significant amendments planned to be introduced by the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship are. In order to acquire Croatian citizenship with the origin of a child born abroad and whose parent is a Croatian citizen at the time of his birth will increase the age limit for enrolment in the records of Croatian citizens until 21 years of age. So far, for 18 years, each person has been with a newborn child if the parents of Croatian citizens, or at least one of them, have the right to enlist that person in the register of Croatian citizens regardless of whether the person or child is born in the Republic of Croatia or abroad. So far, there have been cases where these people, after being 18, realize that they have had the opportunity to enroll in Croatian citizenship, but their parents have missed it, so this additional deadline is given for each person to do so for themselves. I stress the acquisition of Croatian citizenship by origin and it refers to persons born after the entry into force of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, so after 8 October 1991. Furthermore, a generational limit is left for the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for descendants of emigrants from the Republic of Croatia and they are released from the obligation to know the Croatian language and Latin letters, Croatian culture and social order. There is currently a limit, a generation limit for receiving Croatian citizenship to the 2nd degree, and persons applying for Croatian citizenship must fill out a questionnaire on the knowledge of Croatian language, culture and social order. In addition, the notion of emigrants from the Republic of Croatia is specified in a way that the emigrant is considered a person who moved from the Republic of Croatia before 8 October 1991, so from the day on which it is considered as the day of independence of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the day of entry into force of the law whose amendments we are witnessing. It is further prescribed that the emigrant is not considered a person who has moved out of the Republic of Croatia, therefore who has moved out of the Republic of Croatia but at that moment had no former Croatian republican citizenship or ethnicity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. For example, the person was a citizen of another republic of the former state, but moved out of Croatia. This law also allows the acquisition of Croatian citizenship by naturalisation for minor children whose parents acquired Croatian citizenship as an emigrant or a descendant of emigrants from the Republic of Croatia or as members of Croatian peoples. Therefore, these children do not have to live in the Republic of Croatia, but they may, unlike other children who are admitted to Croatian citizenship, not have to have a registered stay in the Republic of Croatia. For members of the Croatian people who do not have personal evidence of this identity, it is proposed to simplify the execution of evidence and therefore, in that sense, if they do not have evidence that they can attach evidence that their parents are members of the Croatian people. The statement in legal traffic was possible before and today, but in certain countries, perhaps even in some periods or for younger people who have just been involved in schooling in life, they may not have had the opportunity to make themselves known as members of the Croatian people. For a spouse whose admission to Croatian citizenship would be of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the condition of life in the Republic of Croatia with an approved stay of at least 1 year shall be prescribed. Also for persons whose entry into Croatian citizenship would represent the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is prescribed that, apart from the competent ministry, an opinion on the existence of that interest can also be given by the central state office. However, it is normable that this opinion must be explained in detail and that it clearly gives rise to what interest it is and what Croatia receives by receiving a certain person into Croatian citizenship. Unlike perhaps a valid opinion in the public, such cases are very few compared to the total number of received, and it has been moving about 10 times a year for the past 20 years. So relatively small numbers, but a very sensitive area, we want to regulate it further. This proposal, the final draft of the law, provides for the possibility of abolishing or revoking a solution to obtaining Croatian citizenship if it is acquired by the basis of a marriage concluded for benefit, and in accordance with the provisions of a special law, that is, the Foreigners Act or, therefore, obtained by false representation or fraud in the administrative procedure during the acquisition of Croatian citizenship. Such cases are not much, but they are sensitive, therefore, to acquire any right in a deceitful way, and in particular this would certainly be, should be sanctioned or prevented. The solution to obtaining Croatian citizenship could also be abolished for persons convicted after receiving Croatian citizenship in criminal proceedings against the Republic of Croatia and crimes against humanity and human dignity for a prison sentence of at least 5 years. And finally, what's new is the introduction of a solemn oath by a person who acquires Croatian citizenship by naturalization, by birth. It is an act that many countries know, giving one, one ceremony, one seriousness of the whole process, and it should take place in a more solemn atmosphere, so that the solution to the acquisition of Croatian citizenship is not only served on the counter, but that these persons are also admitted and may be briefly explained to them, which means being a Croatian citizen, very briefly, so to direct them into obligations and the rights of them as new citizens. In short, the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law. In addition, it is prescribed that the acquisition of the citizenship of a minor child living in Croatia is linked to an approved permanent stay. So far, we have had cases of a child who otherwise lives abroad coming to a parent who is in Croatia and is a Croatian citizen, so he reports a short stay and asks for citizenship and then returns to the country of origin without having lived there for a certain time, without being integrated into the Republic of Croatia and headed to Croatian culture, customs, legal order of his new country. So this would now be related to the approved permanent stay of course in accordance with a special law. In the final draft of the law, a period of 45 days has been deleted, in which the competent ministry should give a reasoned opinion on the state's interest in receiving foreign nationals into Croatian citizenship and, of course, the legal consequences of not giving the requested opinion. This is therefore a communication between the different bodies of ministries and ministries, i.e. specifically the MUP, other ministries or central offices, which is subject to the general rules of the State Administration System Act, the General Administration Act, and we do not feel that this deadline is necessary here, and these were also the comments from the debates in the working bodies and plenary sessions. More specifically and more precisely, the responsibility for the submission of requests for acquisition, termination and establishment of Croatian citizenship is regulated in such a way that it is explicitly prescribed for, prescribed by the local authority of police administrations and the station for submission of requests to the Republic of Croatia for those persons who have residence, therefore to remain permanent or temporary in the Republic of Croatia. So far, someone who lives outside could have come to the Republic of Croatia because the issue was not arranged and submitted a request at a police office or station, and we also had certain abuses for which, where some people are taking written or applying for a large number of foreigners. It is a precise provision that I have talked about, in the introduction of, or abolishing, a solution to the entry into Croatian citizenship in order to be clearer and set this deadline, therefore, from 5 years to which, as the sentence of 5 years has been imposed, it would only then create conditions for the abolition of the admission solution to Croatian citizenship. Finally, from the differences I would like to point out, on the initiative of the Croatian Defence Ministry, a provision has been introduced. 17 that regulate the status of the missing and deadly victims of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. According to the Ministry of Croatian Defence, such persons who, therefore, disappeared and died, and unknown to them were registered 438, and the checks in our records found that about 150 of them, no of them, had been established, had no Croatian citizenship at the time of the disappearance. Certain remarks concerning the extension of the time limit for enrollment in the records of Croatian citizens of origin, so from 21 to 24 years or more, or the introduction of one objective deadline, therefore, which would not be related to the years of life of the applicant, means a person, but would be determined within some period of entry into force of this law, we could not accept. These decisions, therefore, will be clarified once again, when it comes to origin, can be accepted on the basis of origin in Croatian citizenship only by those persons who were born after the entry into force of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, so after 8 October 1991, and for those whose status was not resolved by the law of the former state, there are provisions, transitional and final provisions, i.e. the institute of the establishment of Croatian citizenship, which can also be demonstrated that a certain person at the time of birth per parent was a Croatian citizen and therefore in the process of determining Croatian citizenship. So these views are also confirmed by the decisions of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, and this legal understanding of some other instance, for example, the Constitutional Court has never disputed. Croatian citizenship so far in these, slightly less than 28 years of naturalisation has gained slightly less than a million and 100 thousand people, so there is, of course, a much larger number that has acquired Croatian citizenship in that period with origin, so there are all those children who are born and their parents are Croatian citizens. Compared to these groups, to these persons who are primarily, which primarily suggest these amendments and complements, therefore to Croatian emigrants and their descendants or members of the Croatian people, the majority of those who have just been admitted have been accepted on the legal basis. 16 as members of the Croatian people and a total of 682 169 to date, and as emigrants from the Republic of Croatia and their descendants 21 538 persons. So approximately, more than 2/3 were received on these legal grounds. Here, respected MPs, respected MPs, these are the basic points and differences between the bill's proposal and the final draft of the law, and I expect that we will come up with the best solutions in the open debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145643	Thank you. On your exhibit, we have four replicas at the opening. First of all, he's a colleague of the Squibbles. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145644	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I believe that in these amendments and additions to the law, the biggest problem is seen in the definition of Croatian emigrants. Why? Because all the people who left Croatia in the period, for example. 5 or 10 years ago or during this period they leave the country are economic migrants, so according to the embassy, they are called economic immigrants and in case they are married in another country, for example in Germany and Ireland, their spouse who is not, for example,. The Croat, meaning foreign citizenship, cannot get Croatian citizenship, so I believe that in terms of Croatian emigration, this di here is limited to October 8, 1991, that something needs to be done with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145645	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145646	So we've been trying to tell these changes and additions what date it is and what person it is. I believe that we have done so, therefore, has been set a date relating to the independence of the Republic of Croatia, so its legal and political action as an independent state, and that law is also the date of entry into force of the Law on Croatian Citizenship. Persons leaving the Republic of Croatia are Croatian citizens, they can, of course, make marriages and their spouses can acquire Croatian citizenship, but according to the provisions of the Foreign Law they must, of course, live a certain time in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145647	Thank you. Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145648	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Between two readings, in Art. 14 of the final proposal of the law, a way of making a solemn oath has been erased. So I know, and in previous times some of my colleagues have been saying that it's a political spine and something that maybe shouldn't be and that's actually unnecessary. But I want to believe that now whoever has Croatian citizenship that it is a solemn act for him and such solemn acts are marked on the occasion of Statehood Day, Homeland Thanksgiving, independence, it doesn't matter what occasion it is, but it is important that such a solemn oath is given. And I don't see why that would be erased. And that reminds me of a time if you feel like we've lifted a big guard shift, we've said it's unnecessary, on the other hand we're going to other countries and we're bowing out guards in Athens, in the Kremlin, in London which I don't think is good. Each state is marked by certain symbols, and with these symbols there should be one solemn act... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145649	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145650	Dear Mr. Representative, that is exactly how we wanted to acquire, the act of gaining Croatian citizenship to give greater importance and some dignity. We think that by adopting these amendments and supplementing the law and doing so. We are not now in this article that prescribes the giving of the solemn oath to go into detail, this is one procedure that we have suggested to be prescribed by the minister by the regulation but we have therefore introduced this new institute and we believe that it will be well accepted by all who will acquire Croatian citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145651	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145652	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. Well, I absolutely agree with the provisions of this law especially when, in the section that speaks of the acquisition of the citizenship of evicted Croats and their descendants. They were always there for us, they helped during the Homeland War, and of course all our successes rejoiced far more than we did. I remind you, last year, during the World Cup, there was no corner on this planet where red-and-white dice didn't fly. I also note here that we currently have a need to import labour. I've only had a few entrepreneurs looking for 100 people to come to work in Croatia for the last two days. And we also have insecure areas in the world, e.g. Venezuela where the state is in one chaos and there is an assumption that about 5,000 Croats live. So why don't you let them gain citizenship and if they want to get... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145653	Thank you. Please, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145654	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Croatian emigrants and generally what is referred to as the Croatian diaspora have certainly made a great contribution to the creation of the Croatian state but continue to be a continuous contribution to the strength of the Croatian economy, culture, sports, art, etc. And we hold that all of us, this law is just perhaps one introduction, should do more to facilitate their return because many of them want to return and be as well received and integrated into Croatian society as possible. When it comes to the second generation, the third generation really needs constant integration, they know some rules, they know to a certain extent the language, but they need one welcome to this country and their experiences, skills, knowledge and education, they can certainly contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Croatia and especially because, as you said, we are exposed to certain demographic losses and these people would certainly welcome today in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145655	Thank you. Comrade Tudjman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145656	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, if I understand correctly, you mentioned the October 8, 1991, as the date of your independence of the Republic of Croatia. A year. If it's legally defined somewhere, it's just legally unfounded and wrong date because it's June 25, '91. The decision on independence and independence made by the Croatian Parliament on 8 October was only confirmed, never changed in the meantime. So if that's how it exists in some law, then I think it would be necessary to go as soon as possible to change that wrong date.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145657	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145658	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, as a lawyer, as far as I know, that date has been entered into almost all of our laws. And for example, if someone graduated from Skopje on October 7, 1991. His diploma is recognised, if he graduated 9th, he had to, the person had to apply for the diploma to be confirmed here in the ministry. So this is the date from which we can legally talk, politically but legally considered Croatia an independent country and laws, with that date the Republic of Croatia has taken over certain laws of the former SFRY and they apply as Croatian laws. That's certainly so, so October 8th is that date. And what you said about the decision to stand alone is true, but it was delayed until October 8th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145659	Thank you, thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague Jelkovac, a colleague of Ostojić and a colleague of Ljubic? You'll do it? Here's my colleague Ljubic. A colleague, Ljubic, chairman of the board, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145660	I thank Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and fellow MPs, so the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia discussed this final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship at its 27th session this morning. The Committee, therefore, concluded after the proposal's argument, therefore that this law certainly helps to affirm Croatian emigration and encourages the return to the Republic of Croatia and facilitates the acquisition of Croatian citizenship in relation to the law we have so far. So after the debate, the Committee is, therefore, for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship. He's on the other side of the board. Therefore, before this debate, he also received certain amendments from other interested institutions, including the Croatian Legal Centre and the amendment, the Committee forwarded them to the applicants to consider them and to decide how they would be treated, but I can say that the Committee was very positive in its debate on these amendments. On the other hand, there are amendments to the committees, i.e. the Advocate General's Office. However, the Committee also unanimously established two amendments to this bill. The first amendment refers to Article 2 where an amendment to Article 5 of the law is proposed in provisions relating to the acquisition of Croatian citizenship by origin, which Mr Katic spoke of on behalf of the proposings, where it is now expanding from 18 years to 21 years of age to persons who are at least one of this Croatian national parent in order to allow those persons after their adulthood to apply themselves to Croatian citizenship if their parents failed to do so until their age. But here, another problem arises, what about that person who is today, or by the power of this law, for example. 22 years or more than that. I believe that this law, no matter how liberalizing this issue, allows the descendants of Croatian citizens to apply personally after their age, is still very restrictive in relation to the descendants of our emigrants and, therefore, the Committee has proposed an amendment which would read: The origins of Croatian citizenship of persons born abroad whose parents were born at the time of birth of a Croatian citizen, and if, within 5 years of the entry into force of this law, they apply for Croatian citizenship. So this is a new item, the existing one remains, so the board supports it, but it is given a new item and is given for 5 years to the descendants of Croatian citizens who, for whatever reason, are therefore not registered until their adulthood by their parents in Croatian citizenship, that they themselves are doing so, so 5 years after the entry into force of this law. It is not given indefinitely, so that people will not speculate so when they need it, but in this way this one gives an opportunity to our descendants of our emigrants, and in this way I certainly think that it will encourage a lot more people to join Croatian citizenship and hopefully to move into the Republic. The second amendment concerns Article 5, which amends Article 11, the following new article is added: The emigrant referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is also a member of the Croatian people who has moved out of Croatian ethnic spaces in the composition of countries where the territory of the Republic of Croatia once was. What's this about? Namely, the notion of emigrants as defined in this final proposal to amend and supplement the law says the emigrant is considered a person who moved out of the Republic of Croatia before 8 October 1991. However, we know that our diaspora actually this, so I would say at least half of them, are not actually emigrated from the territory of today's Republic, but have actually evicted from the Croatian ethnic spaces where Croatia was once in state communities, from Austria, and through this one, the other Yugoslavia and later on, and we would like to say, by keeping this so to say, restrictive provisions, in fact, shared our diaspora so to say so in two categories of diaspora. And that is why we believe that this concept of emigrants should be extended, therefore to these descendants of Croatian emigrants who have evicted from these Croatian ethnic spaces, by, of course, retaining this formulation already put into the bill so that we would not discriminate against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by any means, by any means speaking to the ethnicity of the Croatian citizenship. So these are these two amendments that the Committee has proposed and unanimously adopted, and here I am, and from this place again, asking the motionors or the representatives of the motion to consider this before voting to get to or to adopt them or possibly if they have an even better formulation of these amendments to agree on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145661	Thank you, Mr. Ljubic, board president. I am now opening a debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 554 and I urge my colleague Kovac to participate in the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here's your colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145662	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have already heard a lot about this bill from Mr. Secretary of State Katic, I will repeat here once again that it means that it is generally a matter of liberalising this law, that we are relieved to receive the descendants of Croatia, members of the emigrant into Croatian citizenship. The aim of this proposal is to simplify the process and facilitate the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for members of the Croatian people, Croatian emigrants and their descendants and spouses, which aims to valorise both the scientific and cultural and demographic and economic social potentials that exist in Croatian emigration. The most important changes that are proposed are to gain citizenship by the origin of a child born abroad whose parents at the time of his birth of a Croatian citizen, increasing the age limit for enrolment in the records of Croatian citizens from the current 18 to 21 years of age. This wants to give the opportunity and opportunity to make a personal application for registration in the book of citizens and persons whose parents and guardians failed to do so until his age. Furthermore, a generational limit is left for the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for the descendants of emigrants and they and their spouses are also exempt from the obligation to know the Croatian language, Latin script, Croatian culture and social order. So he will have a chance to make up for it later because it is important and key when living in Croatia when you have citizenship in Croatia, that you know Croatian culture and that you can speak Croatian. This law also allows for the acquisition of citizenship in the birth of minor children whose parents acquired citizenship as an emigrant or descendant from the Republic of Croatia. By obtaining the citizenship of a child living in the Republic of Croatia, he shall be bound by an approved permanent stay. In order to obtain citizenship in the birth of a minor child, the consent of another parent is required in order for parents to be even in the decision on the status rights of the child. This law also facilitates the carrying out of evidence for members of the Croatian people who do not have the personal evidence and belongings of the Croatian people whose parents are unequivocally determined to belong to the Croatian people, also those who, as a full-time, Croatian citizenship, are unable to regain citizenship on any basis. The law also regulates the civil status of the missing and deadly victims of the Homeland War. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this means that the law seeks to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, facilitate the process of gaining citizenship for all members of the Croatian people, Croatian emigrants and their spouses. By increasing the age limit for registration in the register of Croatian citizens, it will be possible for a person to personally submit a request for entry in the citizens' book. Following this on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will say here that we will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship with a single note, namely an amendment concerning Article 15 which we propose to delete because it is in collegiate with the Croatian Constitution. In fact, the Croatian Constitution predicts that it is not possible to take away any Croatian citizenship since the provisions in question have not taken sufficient account of the legal standards reached as well as the principle of proportionality, we believe that the proposed Article 15 should be deleted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145663	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, counterpart Ranko Ostojic, please welcome colleague Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145664	... one of the objectives for which this law is adopted, not among other things, to meet the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme as one of the strategic objectives, is to stop the emigration and affirmation of Croatian emigration. [[Specially enabled.]] The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian Citizenship has facilitated the conditions for obtaining Croatian citizenship of members of the Croatian people abroad and Croatian emigrants. This is originally written in this explanation and that in this way it wants to encourage immigration in the Republic of Croatia, I think that it is a completely wrong approach and that the Constitution of prescribed care for Croats abroad should point out, among other things, at least in this previous work, which is listed and not in a way that it is actually a message that it wants to encourage immigration in the Republic of Croatia because they live in places, here I will specifically say and neighbouring BiH and make up the Croatian people's corps living abroad. What is true and that is that in certain solutions that are given by and by the Committee on Internal Policy and in the debate given by the SDP Club, they are not accepted, I don't actually see the reason, here I see that we actually see the same proposals by asking Article 15 that regulates something really questionable about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is the questionable status of persons who, of course, need to give up, the distinction from layoffs, etc. But I think it's very important to stress that we don't need it and that we should avoid it. On the one hand very rigorously, on the other hand very liberally. What I also think has been avoided by law to resolve and this is a matter of security obstacles to the reception of persons into Croatian citizenship. What does that really mean? There are court disputes about when it is written that someone does not meet or that there are security obstacles without reason, without anything and that person can actually not be admitted to Croatian citizenship and there are no specific reasons why someone cannot get Croatian citizenship, even when it is in a situation that actually meets the requirements of the other parts of the law. With regard to the categories of foreigners, the release from the obligation to satisfy the assumptions and knowledge of Croatian language and Latin scripts, Croatian culture and social order, we consider it a complete failure. Namely, one of the things that, with all the liberalisation, is the intention of Croatian emigrants to come to Croatia, they return, etc., this is a completely wrong approach. I would be very pleased to return to Pope Franje Ostojić, to return all those who are actually in Argentina, Peru, Chile, alike, but in a situation where they will not take this assumption, which is that they know the Croatian language and Latin script, at least the minimum needed by Croatian culture and social order, will actually be motivated only to take a passport from Croatia, to become citizens of the EU by a very liberal system in which it is no longer a prerequisite and to actually use what they are ultimately only interested in, and that they are citizens of the European area without any intention that is highlighted here, which is to actually become an integral part of this community, to live here and to return here after a long series of years of emigration because they know neither Croatian language, know culture, to be an integral part of the Croatian community. What is wrong with me on the other hand in the allegations that the person who did not have former Croatian republican citizenship has no right and is not considered an emigrant. And it is completely wrong and completely shows the situation in which you actually have a Croat father and mother, Croats, but he did not have the Republic citizenship of the Republic of Croatia for a number of reasons, he is not in a position to actually get Croatian citizenship under these conditions as well as a person who does not even know Croatian language, does not know Croatian culture, does not know the Latin script, does not know anything about social order, the fact that the emigrant, for him, has no problem getting a European passport without the intention of staying because otherwise it would have written that after a certain time he would have received such documents and received documents and remained. Also, the issue of solemn oath is actually today an attempt to pump it all together, we look like certain countries that will then form a certain number of so-called. new Croatian citizens and I hope that the regulation will not prescribe the procedure that this is a condition for the person to receive the document. The fact that we do not need such performances if we need real intensity and intent to have people who come here to live, who will be in Croatia, which will be an integral part of this community, then we do not need to bring a bar to a solemn oath and I repeat, I hope this rule will not be written. As for Article 26, which prescribes the possibility of revoking a solution to the entry into Croatian citizenship, it is our claim that it is completely against the constitution and that such a procedure actually does not only violate the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but we do not see any reason why it would thus lead to a situation for someone who could, without any problem, be in a position to have a right to citizenship, remain without it in a way to confirm that he has it and to be taken away from it later, this is unacceptable by the Constitution. Acceleration of the procedure for obtaining Croatian citizenship for members of Croatian people living abroad and Croatian emigrants, there are a number of proposals, actually which have not passed, but here you see, there is a new definition that is now listed and that is who is Croatian emigrant and who is a member of the Croatian people living abroad. Here I would like someone to explain to me what it means, to whom a member of the Croatian people is concerned and who is a Croatian emigrant, I still haven't been able to understand that difference, but good. If the situation with these intentions has been good, at least one proposal from the Committee is proposed that this 45-day period and the legal consequences for not giving an opinion be transferred to the responsibility of whoever did it. In the initial draft of the law, we had a situation that if it is not answered within 45 days, the central state office or the ministry does not give an opinion, then we are in a position for a person to have no opinion because of what they have not issued, to be left without the right or the possibility of obtaining Croatian citizenship. And this wrong approach, fortunately, has changed but therefore the issue of repealing the decision on the acquisition of Croatian citizenship has not been accepted, I hope that this will still be accepted in the amendments, as is the issue of republican citizenship that I have previously highlighted, I think it should be really respect for the situation that we had before 8 October and the situation that was in these areas. I'm going to end up here on behalf of the club saying that I hope it'll be a good will to get rid of all this together, I don't think it's a good thing when the proposals of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which I even have to stress, have been passed most of the meanings of everyone who is there and on the other hand, we'll be able to decide after possible rejection of the amendment how we're going to set ourselves up under this law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145665	We continue the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the next colleague Vesna Pusic is in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please welcome fellow Members Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145666	... Secretaries with associates. [[Specially enabled.]] So, the foundation of this law, or the basic motive, that can be read from what we are offered, is primarily the liberalisation of the possibility of entering Croatian citizenship. We see that in our own right even though when you look at the details, all of a sudden you see some I'd say worrying details here. I'm not going to repeat something my colleagues said before that, that I agree with. I'm going to be having a problem on behalf of the GLAS and HSU club in the first row of one topic. In fact, citizenship is an eclectic political category. This is not an ethnic category, therefore, by citizenship regardless of ethnicity, all Croatian citizens are Croatian citizens, i.e. political Croats can be said. In other words, citizenship is exactly the category in which it cannot and must not be discriminated on the basis of ethnicity. There may be some additional possibilities for emigrants from the Republic of Croatia, but they must then be valid and I don't know what our representatives of national minorities think here but must also apply to emigrants from the Republic of Croatia who are members of national minorities and not just emigrants from the Republic of Croatia who are members of the Croatian people, so who are ethnic Croats. It's precisely because it's a matter of citizenship, so it's about an eminent political category and unequivocal about political and not ethnic identity. And with that fundamental fact, this law needs to be harmonised and it must not be an ethnic law. And there are no further comments in it, and I want to warn them here and trouble them and warn them that we are not going in that direction. The fact of the date mentioned, so the people who moved out before October 8, '91. is automatic politicisation. Because of course there are people who moved out before October 8, '91. but there are also people who moved out after the 1990s war who are from Croatia, born in Croatia and we also have to think of them as people who have the right not only to return but who have the right to Croatian citizenship. It is introduced here for them by the Croatian criteria, so people who had Croatian republican citizenship. I don't know which one of you of my generation and generation that this could apply to, so who was a minor in '91, who remembers if he had a republican citizenship? I certainly have no idea if I had a Republic because it wasn't at all important at the time, whether you had in the '80s and the '70s republican citizenship, frankly that you asked me, I'd say I had no idea that it even existed as a category. So like this, I'd say it's something that a small minority of people paid any attention to and had it regulated. Introduced also ingenuity. Now, what it means to be heredity, whether it means people who had a stay, whether it means people who had a residence in the Republic of Croatia, it should perhaps be a little clearer to define that we know what that ethnicity applies to. This is a more specific category, therefore the residence or stay in the Republic of Croatia, which is likely to prove by means of some documents and was certainly regulated prior to the stay or registration of the residence but the republican citizenship was one almost negligible and neglected category at the time, so this can be difficult to use as something that builds any right simply because it was not formalised for most people, or formally regulated. Another element that defines that the process of carrying out evidence for members of the Croatian people who do not have personal evidence of their belonging to the Croatian people is therefore the use of established membership to the Croatian people of their parents. OK, what about ethnically other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who were born in the Republic of Croatia? What about the people leaving the Republic of Croatia today? One of my colleagues asked that, I mean, fellow Schibol, he asked that question. It's a big topic, these people go away with family, these people get foreign citizenship, these kids are born abroad. It's a population that is most interesting to us, because it's the youngest because it's potentially most productive and because it's in the country's best interest for these people to return and have a regulated status and their children have a regulated status, so that's the population to which they are, because that's the population of the future. These are, is patching wounds from the past but it is a population of the future and it is something where we need to focus liberal rules to make it easier for these people and their descendants to return and facilitate obtaining and regulate their status in the Republic of Croatia. So with this, in this respect, this law is an unusual structure or an unusual construct, it introduces in some segments relatively liberal regulation, for example, what counterpart Ostojic mentioned that for some people it is possible to get Croatian citizenship even though they have no idea about Croatia, so they do not know either language or culture or social order or anything, while for some others, who, for example, would, whether they know all of them are excluded from the possibility of obtaining Croatian citizenship by provisions that primarily refer to the date or simply ignore themselves. As is the population that is most interesting to us, which is the population that is leaving today and leaving in recent years. So, one law that is relatively liberal, and it's completely conservative as much as it's completely turned to the past. It has been completely turned around for decades and centuries behind us and regulation of this situation, and it is not a bit turned to our own future and generations that are most important to us, most interesting and that should have the strongest guarantees that they can return and that they can without a problem and their descendants regulate their status here. I have seen some amendments that have been proposed for this debate and refer to this law which addresses some of these issues including the fact that citizenship is an essential policy category, not ethnic and if these amendments are accepted, we will be able to support this law, if they are not accepted, in this form we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145667	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145668	We're going back to the agenda. On behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State, Mr. Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145669	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. MPs, Mr. Representatives. I wouldn't abuse your extra time, but I have to look back at Mr. Vesna Pusic's exposure on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, and I may use that seemingly difficult and serious word for historical truth. - Namely, Mrs. Crescent. Pusic said she had never heard that there are republican citizenships, that she doesn't remember it at all. Of course, we could leave everyone in his personal memory of this period although, I recall, the Republic of Croatia had, therefore, 3 republican citizenships, the 1950s law, 65s and 70s. Why does it matter? Because most of you probably know, for the recognition of any state, we have learned who we have studied law, but some others probably need people, therefore, population, territory and organised power. But one additional element that is also needed is international recognition and whatever the situation that was since 91st when we had a plebiscitarian plea for independence. When Croatian defenders defended the Republic of Croatia, and we wondered when our country and it would be recognized once, it lasted, if you remember, for months. The question was whether it would have ever been recognised if it hadn't existed, you probably remember, the Badinter Commission that came here to establish legal and political elements for the recognition of the Republic of Croatia. After her work, she found that the Republic of Croatia as well as some other states, as well as other countries of the former federal country, so SFRY, had, had, and had, attributes of statehood, and this was determined by the existence of the Constitution, the Republic Constitution of 1974 but also by the Law on Republic Citizenship. It wouldn't be so terrible if Mrs Pusic hadn't been, if you remember the minister of foreign and European affairs of the Republic of Croatia, I think such a person should know what affected to a good extent that the Republic of Croatia should be recognised as an entity of international law. It may be one of the citizens, someone who hasn't been in politics for so long, who hasn't acted on such significant duties, who shouldn't know, even though I think he should be studying at school and that this should be taught by young generations, but people who have performed such significant duties in our country shouldn't be distracted by that. So, I responsibly argue that among other things, the Republic Law on Croatian Citizenship was the last one of the cornerstones on which Croatia was founded independence and independence in the early 1990s. And I personally think that to everyone who lived at that time, who had a certain age of which Mrs Pusic said that it was also a republican citizenship, see for sure who has indices in indices in the national groups that we filled in each semester, in birth papers, everywhere there was both federal and republican citizenship. So it shouldn't be just a matter of whether or not I remember, that republican citizenship as well as the constitution were a significant strong basis for the Republic of Croatia's international recognition and that today we have the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145670	Thank you. We move to debate on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Dear colleague Boris Milosevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145671	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with co-workers and co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, would first like to congratulate Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric on the election of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, I think it is a great success for her personally, and also for the Republic of Croatia because the Council of Europe is the oldest European organisation whose task is to protect the rule of law, freedom of democracy and to care for human rights in Europe. The Republic of Croatia has ratified a number of Council of Europe conventions and has thus become a better state and a better society for all of us. As far as the law itself is concerned, unfortunately I must conclude that my proposal to correct the injustice against persons who have been Croatian citizens whose parents are Croatian citizens since birth, to admit that they are Croatian citizens, has not been accepted. The promoter, unfortunately, had no hearing. What is the light motif of passing this law? He writes in his explanation, in the materials that he is trying to help resolve demographic issues through an easier approach or through an easier process of obtaining citizenship for members of the Croatian people abroad and Croatian emigrants. Generation limit is left for the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for the descendants of emigrants in the early line and their spouses. This specifically means that Jose from Venezuela 4 or 5 generations of Croatian emigrants and his spouse can easily acquire Croatian citizenship without knowledge of Croatian language, without knowledge of Croatian culture and without knowledge of Croatian social order. If it's political will and determination, I respect it and accept it and I will vote for it, I have no problem with it. But when I put it in line with that problem I've accepted, then it's unfair, it's deeply unfair. Speaking of the Council of Europe, I would like to mention that the Council of Europe is on the current text of the law, so it did not have any objections except in the section relating to easier access to citizenship to members of the Croatian people who are now additionally.../incomprehensible/... I will only talk here about the acquisition of Croatian citizenship by origin. The law says that Croatian citizenship is acquired by origin by a child whose parents are Croatian citizens. And this person means whose parents are Croatian citizens, regardless of where they were born in Croatia, Serbia, Australia, in America, they have the right to Croatian citizenship, but in order for this right to be acquired must be entered in the parent books. In the former state, we mentioned this, we had, apart from the citizenship of the SFRY and the republican citizenship and our law, the one that we change in transitional and final provisions talks about and says that any person who has acquired this property under the rules that were applicable to the adoption of this law is considered to be a Croatian citizen. So it says by applying this law on Croatian citizenship, the Law on the Citizenship of the SR of Croatia of '77 ceases to apply. So whoever was a citizen of the SR of Croatia, regardless of residence, regardless of nationality, was a Croatian citizen. And the Law on Socialist Citizenship of the SR of Croatia also had a provision that said that if both parents were citizens of the Republic citizenship of the Republic of Croatia the child is then a citizen of the SR of Croatia and that child can only be a citizen of the SR of Croatia, and then the Republic of Croatia. And I think it's undeniable. Although these citizenships did not produce legal effects, they had no importance in legal traffic, mistakes took place. The parents were still high school officials, the regulations were complex and mistakes were happening. It was against the law, but it is life and instead of enrolling a child in the citizenship of the Socialist Republic, if a child was born for example in Serbia, they enroll in the citizenship of the Socialist Republic of Serbia. The position of the motionor according to the final proposal of the law that the Republic of Croatia is not obliged to solve such problems or mistakes if these are errors or attitudes are that they are not at all mistakes, but these entries were with the consent of the parents or the person himself, that is wrong, wrong and unacceptable. So whose concern is that if not the Republic of Croatia takes care of its citizens, it must take care of its citizens. The parents of these persons are Croatian citizens and this person is entitled to Croatian citizenship by birth. If it is true that parents have agreed, this consent is contrary to the law, so this consent could not be respected because the Law on the Citizenship of the Socialist Republic said if both parents are citizens of the Socialist Republic that they will be a citizen of the Socialist Republic. Today's law, as I said, says if both parents are Croatian citizens and the child is a Croatian citizen and there is no today that parents can agree differently. As it now stands in the bill of law, so we will give citizenship to the citizens of the fourth, fifth, I don't know the sixth generations, who have never been in the Republic of Croatia, and the people whose parents are Croatian citizens who have acquired Croatian citizenship by birth we will tell you you can't be Croatian citizens. I think it's unfair and discriminatory. Finally, I would like to point out one more thing that I pointed out in my first reading, which I will not even submit to the amendment, but one proposer will reconsider that fact once again, and it refers to the provision that the origin of the Croatian citizenship of the person born abroad whose parent is a Croatian citizen at the time of birth if he is 21st. Life will be reported to the home office in the Republic of Croatia for registration as a Croatian citizen. I support this solution, I think it's good. Parents often do, and they won't enroll a child until 18, like this after 18. We're opening a 3rd-year window. to just decide to be a Croatian citizen, I think that's a good solution. But I'm asking the proposer, which is when both parents are Croatian citizens, and the child was born abroad, and is not registered with the matriarch until 18.? The promoter will now say so it is a Croatian citizen, but it is not listed. The practice of the parent offices is not to enroll such persons and they are not Croatian citizens and now we will have a situation that if the child is born abroad, and one parent is a Croatian citizen, that child will have a 3.g window. to decide to be a Croatian citizen, and children whose parents are both Croatian citizens, they will not have that possibility. If that's acceptable, I'll vote for it. However, I will return to the beginning of the story, so I cannot accept and support the law if we do not show the will to correct the mistakes and injustice that was done to those persons who at birth gained Croatian citizenship because they would not now gain automation, but would have to show interest to be Croatian citizens, they would have to apply for registration as a Croatian citizen, they would have to prove that their parents were citizens of the Socialist Republic at the time of birth and that they were also citizens of the Republic today. This will be the subject of the amendment and the National Minority Representatives' Club will stand behind them and our support for the law will depend on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145672	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145673	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm actually going to repeat my thoughts that I said when we had the first proposal to amend this law, and it concerns the definition of an emigrant. According to this final proposal, the law is emigrated by someone who, before October 8, 1991. She moved out of the Republic of Croatia in order to live abroad all the time. And we have in the next item also one... definition, says the emigrant, that the emigrant is not considered to be a person who moved out of the Republic of Croatia and did not have former Croatian republican citizenship or ethnicity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do I say that? Because you have Croats specifically or people of origin, for example. from Boka Kotorska, which belonged to the Kingdom of Dalmatia and thus to the three-week kingdom, you have people from northern Serbia, Vojvodina, Subotics, ethnic Croats and such as I don't know any other country, and they didn't have republican citizenship. What does Republic citizenship mean? We have now heard this from the esteemed secretary of state, meaning citizenship before that of the Croatian SR and before that of the National Republic of Croatia and before what? The Kingdom of Yugoslavia, before what? The Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, Slovenians, and before that, the citizenship of Austro-Hungarians. The people who were in Boka Kotorska were citizens of Dalmatia or worse who were in northern Serbia, in today's Vojvodina, Srijem, were also citizens of the Kingdom of Croatia and Slavonia. Now how do you put it in this law? This definition doesn't seem enough to me, it seems to me to be missing, and I think it's necessary that we correct it. Why limit the emigrants to the person who had before, before moving only the citizenship of the SR of Croatia? Or before that of the People's Republic of Croatia? I repeat, Saturday was before the city with many more Croats, a lot of people went to other countries, aren't these people also Croatian emigrants? Or if someone left Boca Kotorska and they've gone to other countries by now, aren't they Croatian emigrants? So let's see what we can do to correct it, to be more inclusive, that this law that I've already welcomed on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I think it's an important step, that this law is inclusive, that it liberalises the citizenship process, that it facilitates the acquisition of citizenship, means that it's positive but let's see what we can do to make these things important and this is about the definition of the concept of emigrant, that we fix it to really be proud of all of us in Croatia. And one more thing I'm going to say is that it's only the order for a respected secretary of state, this is no competition now but only when we've already discussed the Constitution of the former SR of Croatia and the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, then I'm going to just mention one thing that many in Croatia, many forget, are all calling for that famous 1974 Constitution, we and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the first Constitution after II. svt. The war, it was the constitution of the NR of Croatia, the NR of Croatia we had in a member, then it was called a member, in Article 2 of the very clear provision that the Croatian people were expressing their free will and based on the right to self-determination including the right to secession and unification with other peoples, that we already had in the Constitution the possibility of secession. So it wasn't just about that famous '74 constitution. Mr. than it was written in the first Constitution after II. svt. The NR of Croatia war but we also have to be realistic just like this along the way, now it's not important for this debate, yet there was some kind of if you want the hybrid action of the Cominterna that spread the idea that the peoples have the right to self-determination and secession, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145674	Thank you, colleague Kovac. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Marin Skibola, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145675	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Kovac, I'm interested in your opinion on whether Croatian emigrants should comply with the definition of this law and so on. to economic emigrants, to give equal rights? Why am I saying that? If you've heard of my rep to the secretary of state, so-called. Economic emigrants who moved from the Republic of Croatia after this date was put here and today you have many young people who have left the Republic of Croatia for economic reasons, if they get married in another country, e.g. Germany or Ireland, their marriage partner, unless he is a Croatian citizen, simply cannot get Croatian citizenship as Croatian emigrants can. So he can only get Croatian citizenship if he lives eight years on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145676	Thank you. Answer, fellow Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145677	Personally, I do not think that this should make any difference, I believe that all those who have moved after this date for any reason, it is not important and who have Croatian citizenship if they marry a citizen, a national of a foreign country, that the process of obtaining citizenship should be made easier, you should see what the conditions are and you know that behind that country, perhaps those citizens have moved to, and there are conditions for receiving these people into their citizenship, therefore I should consider it, but in any case, I am in principle for relief when it comes to that, personally, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145678	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145679	Mr. Kovac, the confessor of Pope Franje's name is Ostojić, he is one of these people who could not have the republican citizenship for reasons that at the time he moved out, there was no such thing. Argentina's President Kirchner Ostojić and his wife, their descendants also could not have the republican citizenship, which is what I'm talking about, means the situation of Minister Bozinovic. The question of what republican citizenship he had when he was in Boca Kotorska, not from the time of the Kingdom of Dalmatia, but from the time he went to school there. In my opinion, this is one of the things that in the single state today excludes the possibility of not being a Croatian citizen but also being a Croatian citizen with such restrictions, I am talking about it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145680	Thank you. Answer, fellow Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145681	Dear fellow Ostojić, we understand that I repeat, I think it is important that we also allow your homologist, the denominator whether to become a Croatian citizen regardless of the knowledge of Croatian language, but if it were to happen that it is a mass phenomenon, then surely you should do the appropriate course of Croatian language and knowledge of Croatian culture for these people, so that, as experts say, you can acult, there is this among other people who have a great diaspora of Hungarians, Germans, so someone who is of origin of German citizenship is not at all questionable, but when it comes to Germany, of course, it is solved by learning language, integration in society etc., we should do so if it were to happen as a mass phenomenon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145682	I thank my colleague Kovac. The next replica is a respected colleague of the Professor's. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145683	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kovac, not because of the competition as you said, but the first name was not the People's Republic, but the Federative State of Croatia in '45. That term was used. On the other hand, I think it's true for the Constitution, on the other hand it's not just the comintern, the doctrine of self-determination, but Wilson's doctrine that even went a little before and a third was what some here disputed, the republican citizenship all the time of existence and the federal and national and socialist republics by not solving these other problems they're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145684	I thank my colleague Tudjman. Answer, colleague Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145685	Thank you, Mr. President. I was glad to hear this clarification from my colleague Tudjman, and I would like to organise a stands to which we will invite colleague Ostojić and others interested, so let us discuss a little about how the previous countries of Croatia were organised, especially after the Second World War, but also with an emphasis on the hybrid action of the Comintern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145686	Thank you. Next replica, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145687	I am very pleased that you mentioned the position of the National Republic of Croatia in Yugoslavia. I just hope that the president didn't hear you say that in Yugoslavia you were not supposed to be a Croat, so we have to listen to such nonsense here, and not only did we have the right to citizenship, but we had the right to nationality, national membership, but also the right to citizenship, the Republic citizenship, which was ensured by Marshall Tito, who was expelled from his court. And who was the first Croatian president? No. No, no, no, Franjo Tudjman, it was Vladimir Nazor who was the first president of the National Republic of Croatia. I am very glad that you pointed out this position of Croatia in the non-national so-called Not to the people of Yugoslavia in which national equality and the rights of Croats were cared for.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145688	Thank you. My colleague Kovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145689	... Mr. President, here it is in this tone, in this tone that we will try to organise a tribune on the position of Croatian people in Yugoslavia, in the then SR of Croatia and those ancestors, and also discuss Croatian history, not only will we invite a colleague of Ostojić, we will invite you, I will invite you, and we will have a fine debate, but we will have to resolve first the question of the definition of "Immigrant", but we will be very happy to call you Mr. Stazic, I will be happy to also discuss with you, not only to me, but also to my colleagues. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145690	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145691	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. A respected colleague, counterpart Kovac, has been said today that citizenship is a political category and one colleague said that, in fact, it is talking about the liberalisation of this final bill, and in fact it is quite conservative, at least it was said. Each country has its own specificities, when you talk about emigrants and normally that the Croatian country under the Constitution, Croatia needs to see such specificities in the next 23 national minorities, I will not remind you of the fall of the Soviet Union and today certain countries Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan which problems they have with that national minority and how they determine their citizenship. But here's maybe you can make a parallel with this German grunggeset about staatangehorigkeit, meaning for the citizenship of German citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145692	I thank my colleague Babic. My colleague Kovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145693	I absolutely agree with you, dear colleague Babić, on this of yours when you talk about comparisons, about the possibilities of comparing myself with what I said, what I said to my colleague Ostojić, if it were to happen that moving and receiving into the citizenship of our emigrants in this broader sense, how I tried to show it here, if it were a mass phenomenon or if there were a lot of our emigrants who would choose to take that step, then, of course, as the Germans do, we would organize courses and organise housing, what should we strive for. And when we talk about national minorities, I'm going to point out one thing here. What Croatia does for national minorities, even here in the Croatian Parliament is rare, rare in the world, rare in the world, and too negative in the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145694	I thank my colleague Kovac. Next debate, respected colleague Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145695	Thank you, Mr. President. The colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, therefore according to the estimates of the relevant institutions over 3 million so Croats live outside the Republic of Croatia, who are of course still aware of their Croatian identity, and Croatia is faced with demographic erosion, which is due to negative natural growth, which is because of the continued emigration and in fact this Law on Croatian citizenship I see not only as a way to facilitate Croatian citizenship but also as a contribution to the demographic revitalisation of the Republic. I also positively assess certain government actions, and here is the final conclusion of the European Council, which, with its conclusions, led to the EU's involvement in the resolution of therefore demographically threatened EU members. Therefore, this bill should also be used to maximise the acquisition of Croatian citizenship and thus to address this objective of demographic revitalisation. As we are told in the introduction, Croatian citizenship is therefore governed by the October 1991 law. years, and after that, on several occasions still complemented. However, we are still witnessing, especially that our emigrants point to the restrictive nature of existing laws, including certain difficulties, inertness and obstructions of the administration in the process of obtaining Croatian citizenship in the past. Fortunately, things have been getting better lately. Similar complaints are met by us who.../incomprehensible/... communicate with members of the Croatian people in BiH, and here yesterday by talking to representatives of Brcko District, representatives of Tuzla County, we have had the opportunity to hear these problems that our countrymen in BiH face. However, it should be said that this proposal is a positive step towards facilitating the acquisition of Croatian citizenship and, in fact, the Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia at this morning's session has proposed to the Croatian Parliament that this law be passed. However, I have a few things that are actually still time to fix. Namely, Article 2 of this Act proposes to amend Article 5 of the Law in provisions relating to the acquisition of Croatian citizenship by the origin of a child born abroad whose parent is a Croatian citizen at the time of birth. The proposal for this law, which is positive, increases the age limit for enrolment in the register of Croatian citizens until the age of 21, in order to give the possibility to a person after his adulthood to apply to Croatian citizenship in case his parents missed it by 18 years. However, I also believe here that this is too restrictive a provision and that I should say to extend it and we have reacted as a committee unanimously and by amendment, in a way that gives birth to Croatian citizenship of persons born abroad whose parent, at the time of her birth, is a Croatian citizen, if, within 5 years of the entry into force of this law, applies for Croatian citizenship. The question is, what is the difference, so when this law comes into force between a person who will be 21 at the moment and will have the right to enroll this person in Croatian citizenship if his parents have not done so before, what is the difference between a person who is 22 years old and 23 years old? And that is why I think it is necessary to introduce this additional provision, and we have responded by amendment to allow this directive to be introduced within 5 years of the entry into force of this law. Of course, we are not so that this goes on indefinitely so that people can speculatively declare themselves when they will or will not enter Croatian citizenship. On the other hand, I would kind of do a little polymize here with the proposer's explanation why this wasn't involved because this was the subject of the debate when we had the first reading. The explanation was about to say, the proposal significantly extended the circle of persons who would acquire Croatian citizenship by direct enrolment in the queens of born and book of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia without any security and other checks made on the occasion of obtaining Croatian citizenship by birth or naturalisation. It does not seem to me, therefore, this explanation because this particular goal should be to expand the circle of persons who have the right to acquire Croatian citizenship, and I do not see any reason why we fear in any way the descendants of these Croatian emigrants, especially in the context of security risks in light of the fact that here we are ready to receive 1,000 migrants who have never had anything to do with Croatia, which is fine by EU decisions. Ten thousand therefore this foreign worker enters Croatia today and works from here to the Philippines and clearly there is no side to this side of any major security threat. Therefore, the second, of course, I welcome all those provisions of this law that abolish this generational restriction, etc., the release of the obligation of this knowledge of history, language, etc., all of this together will encourage our emigrants, there will be 2, 3, 4 generations so that, at present, the circumstances are not able to do so. However, I am going back to what I said on behalf of the board, which is defining the concept of so this Croatian emigrant. Therefore, Article 5 amending Article 11(3) further specifies the concept of Croatian emigrants from the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to prescribe that the emigrant is considered a person who moved out of the Republic of Croatia before 8 October 1991. Of course, we consider this a step forward, but we come to the question of what about the descendants of Croatian emigrants who, in different periods of history, had moved out of Croatian historical ethnic spaces as well as colleagues of Kovac just before, but also others from this debate. I estimate that about half, at least half of our diaspora are actually people, Croats, who have evicted this area from outside the borders of today's Republic of Croatia that belonged to the communities in which Croatia was once involved, from Austria-Hungarian across another Yugoslavia, etc., etc. And I'm afraid, therefore, I'm not afraid, so I'm convinced that keeping such a provision, such restrictive provisions, would in some way bring division among our emigrants in terms of two different categories of emigrants, those who have evicted from the territory of our Republic and those who have emigrated and in fact there are no divisions among them and should not be in this law either. That is why we have introduced an amendment which, in fact, I will paraphrasise it, reads about the emigrants from Croatia within the meaning of this law, are considered members of the Croatian people who have evicted from Croatian ethnic spaces regardless of the name of the country they have evicted from. So these are these things, I'm, of course, trying to understand the proposing reserves on this issue, but all of these dilemmas and reserves could be removed if in the rulebook, for example. on the exercise of the right of compensation for the learning of Croatian language and the scholarship of returnees and emigrants has therefore been prescribed by one provision in that regulation, which reads: “A member of the Croatian people is a person to whom one of the parents, one of the ancestors of the 3rd or 4th order was a member of the Croatian people.” So that's how we avoid all the possible risks or reserves that the proposer might see in this way so that those who don't have therefore who are not members of the Croatian people might get involved. And finally, of course, I welcome this bill, myself and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, supported its adoption, but the interest of the Republic of Croatia is certain to include as many members of the Croatian people from the world as possible in the social political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia, so I would like to install in it an even more liberal provision of acquisition of Croatian citizenship especially for those seeking Croatian citizenship with the aim of housing in the Republic of Croatia. So, of course, this can't be the proposal of this law today, but I think it's something to take care of in the future. And so here I am, therefore, asking the Proposer to consider these amendments, once again of course, carefully, which the Committee has made, probably some of the other amendments that we have forwarded, so they have been directed by the competent institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145696	I thank my colleague Ljubic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145697	Dearly beloved, thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Ljubic, you said in one part that the speculativeity of acquiring Croatian citizenship in one HRT show Sunday at 2 is one musician, a well-known musician on a dog car insulted the Republic of Croatia, its social political order, the Catholic Church, then the current leadership. And he actually complains that he can't get Croatian citizenship. So that's what I'm saying and it's asking for Croatian citizenship. These are the people who speculate with Croatian citizenship because he needs a Croatian passport because of the EU countries, because of perhaps the business he is dealing with. And I agree with that, with what you said and I think you're right. I also accept this definition of emigrants that you read and need to think about, should be considered, and I have seen the amendment that you have given on behalf of the Committee and this contributes to this final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145698	I would like to thank my colleague Babic, my colleague Ljubic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145699	Thank you. So in some stages of our modern history, so Croatia was too liberal in the assignments of Croatian citizenship that some abused but also some who now work against the Croatian people in BiH, against the Republic of Croatia and have this Croatian citizenship. Recently, we had the opportunity to follow up on Sunday in two performances by an actor from BiH who achieved most of his career here in the Republic of Croatia, who actually welcomed and participated in political violence against Croats in BiH, so he welcomed the selection of illegal representatives in the representation. And of course I know... Of course, we're talking about the holders of Croatian citizenship, I'm not talking about the others. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So absolutely Croatia needs to take care of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145700	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145701	In your discussion, you referred to several ideological evaluations of colleagues who have participated so far in the debate that have denied from their ideological positions the legal political heritage of today's Republic of Slovenia and in this context the need to respect the fact that there was a republican citizenship in the former Yugoslavia. Well, it is in the provisions of the text of the law that there is also a part that is restrictive and that does not respect the fact that the circumstances as they were in the former Yugoslavia have created obstacles in a certain part of a particular member of the Croatian people to exercise the right to Croatian citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145702	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145703	In fact, Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia sublimes all those goals that Croatia should achieve in relation to... Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately in some... History, for its ideological reasons, some of the options in power interpreted the article differently, applied differently. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were in BiH yesterday,... No, no, no, no, no, no, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The representatives of Tuzla County have had the opportunity to hear the problems that so the members of the Croatian people in BiH face in the achievement of Croatian citizenship and it is the fact that it is contrary to the regulations that were applicable even during the SFRY to members of so-called Croatian peoples who were born from the mother and father of Croats that, therefore, the Republic citizenship of some of the former republics of today's independent states within the former Yugoslavia and, of course, these people today have major problems in achieving their rights and in Croatia's Croatian citizenship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a matter to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145704	I thank my colleague Ljubic for his reply. Next debate, esteemed colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145705	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. Given the first reading of this proposal of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, I'm actually going to say a few things that I've seen that certain clubs and colleagues haven't spoken of, and I think they are important and can help in this debate or at least to hear about them as such. So, since 8 October 91st, we have this Law on Croatian Citizenship and why not say in what circumstances, when and how it happened and what actually happened to the Republic of Croatia. I often know how to tell my colleagues in international organisations when they don't understand the problems that we are facing and where we are, that the situation in which we were then found ourselves as a people, so between the two political systems, with war imposed, Serbian aggression on our country, with a large number of refugees, peaceful reintegration, in fact by preparing for the EU, is too much for one human life for the EU. Some laws, as well as the Croatian Citizenship Act, had some changes, but fewer changes. These may now be one of the major changes concerning the Croatian Citizenship Act, and this was in fact the government's intensities for closer association with Croats, I would say, not only in emigration but with Croats in the BiH area and with Croatian national minorities in other countries, i.e. 12 other European countries. Throughout history, I've known that he's also during Dr. Franjo Tudjman and when we visited the Croats in Romania and something in Bulgaria, a larger number of them had then Croatian passports and I know how lucky and happy it was for those people to have these Croatian passports. Today, the Croatian national minority in R. Serbia, a large number of Croatians have Croatian passports and are treated as citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they go outside the Republic of Serbia and I understand the frustration of Serbian citizens who can't, or those who might want certain amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship to Croatian citizenship. Compares with other countries by me are not appropriate, it is good to compare, namely, but each country has its own specifics. When the Soviet Union fell apart, and when they returned back to Stalin’s day, I also talked about it with Prof. Tudjman, therefore, is then quite strong in all those countries that have fallen apart as Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Georgia have remained the Russian national minorities, and now that you see both South Ossetia and Gorski Karabaha, therefore, all these conflicts today, Crime happening in these areas, surely their countries have a more rigorous law on their citizenship. Therefore, because of these specialities should be seen also the Republic of Croatia. A colleague Kovac actually talked about it, we can go back to certain historical periods and actually, why not say that they are in these areas and are living Croats. So it would be good for this definition of emigrants to think very well and for a future time and allow as many Croats as possible to acquire Croatian citizenship. On the other hand, when we listen to today's debates in HS, then we see, and we feel it when we go outside, that Croatian citizenship is a desirable category, so people want it, they will. It is attractive to have Croatian citizenship and I am happy about it. However, in the final draft of the law, it was me, I'm glad the secretary of state told me, I may have missed, so certain things would be dealt with by a rule regarding the solemn oath. You heard from the SDP Club, they don't care why they do it, it's a political spine, it's unnecessary, etc., etc. And I know when they were, when the big shift actually went out on Mark's square that they couldn't wait to end it. Nevertheless, one country is marked by its symbols. So this flag that's right next to you, it's one piece of cloth, a scarf that actually means nothing, but when you have these three colors, red, white and blue and Croatian coat of arms, then it means very much, it's pride, for it to die, it's sacred. So, through these symbols that have certain countries, when we go to other countries, for example to the Helen's Parliament, to the Presidential Palace in Greece or to the grave of their unknown hero, or when we are in London, or to the Kremlin or to Belin or anywhere, then we are talking about it, we look forward, we talk positively, while when it comes to laughing and mocking and I remember very well that time during the President, the first President Franjo Tuđman, as well as how such things laughed in Croatian society. It is to be said, this is a little bit talked about, therefore, by this proposal of the law, 4 are actually admissions to Croatian citizenship, meaning origin, birth in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, international contracts and naturalisation. On the other hand, the 3 exits from Croatian citizenship are, therefore, by firing, giving up and by international agreement, and of course the services they need to do should be done in the best possible way. Other technical matters, you've explained very well today in your opening statement, Your Honored Secretary of State. The government of the Republic of Croatia, I know that the issue of emigration, the issue of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, is one painful question. Maybe during the war, and at the time, we couldn't go the best way. Since I am in some way part of that diaspora and in some ways part of a part of the population that is both economical and political immigration came out of one area of the Republic and I understand these people, their expectations were too great for a modern, young Croatian state in which we actually couldn't manage ourselves at first because we didn't know the outcome of the war at the time. Today we can also talk politically about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the economics of which my colleague Shucker spoke in the draft law in the first reading, and that is very good, so not only about emigration workers, workers who come to the Republic of Croatia and their wishes, so all of today's aspects must be seen on the other hand in this potential that we have, we definitely didn't take advantage of. I'm not going to tell you about the closer here in Europe to the Croats who are resident in the countries of Europe, but let's say, especially in South America, from the Cape of Good Hope when you enter their cemetery, let's say on the right, you immediately have a buried Croat until I know, Venezuela, Nicaragua, in Mexico maybe a little less, Canada, America, N. Zealand, Australia in particular. So that potential may have been exploited in a better way but it is never too late. There's always some time that's needed to happen and I think it's coming now, it's going to be more and more attractive. The government of the Republic of Croatia should not be minded, however, to praise all efforts and through the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and through the Council of the Government for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who has 55 members, so this law was before them as far as I know, said Mr. Raguž in Sibenik, so the draft of this bill of law and everyone could make their remarks said, respecting both facts and political if you want to join the Republic of Croatia, so ambition is extremely highlighted. In his first reading, he said that when war broke out in Croatia, when Croatians came to defend Croatia, it was not seen whether he had citizenship, whether he should be, whether he paid that tax, it was important to defend the Republic of Croatia. After that, when the SDP power came, I remember my colleague, Bauk, from the stained veins, was struggling to make life worse, so unless we have in the Constitution that you have to vote in diplomatic and consular representations, so you can't even vote electronically as people think without changing the constitution, he's tried even further that people have to be actively registered before the elections themselves, now you can imagine in Vancouver when you have to go to Mississippi, from Mississippi I don't know which places already, 2000 km, who's going to do it, no one. So, this is a good move, a commendable job, I hope to help many who want to gain Croatian citizenship and why not say that we are returning a certain part here to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, in the Croatian Parliament towards people who, during the Homeland War and before that, helped us a lot, before that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145706	I thank my colleague Babic. A esteemed colleague, Ivica Misic, appeared for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145707	... Thank you, thank you. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder Brkić: You can turn on the microphone, please?]] Economic departures, yes, Croatia has moved a lot of people about economics, as far as political evictions are concerned, disagreements in that former system, I think this law is welcome although it is not ideal but that it is very, very slow and a long time ago, looking that we should have more liberalised this law so that our people have clearer goals when they were all better heated to return, today it has been many years, we have lost, I personally think we have lost, we are demographic, we see ourselves, we are moving out and today we could make perhaps some better moves, here we have made the State Office for Emigrated Croats who I consider to be grateful and that this is good and recently I would say that we are paying great attention to this work and the law that we are making, we will discuss it later, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145708	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Answer, fellow Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145709	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's to your information since '61. Until '64. Some 600,000 Croats were emigrated to EU countries, so there were major crises in the former country, and Tito was then asked to open the borders in the conversation with W. Brandt, and then a large number of Croats from BiH, Croatia, and even from Serbia, a part of the people went to Western Europe. Comrade Muscle, it's never too late. So, I said, you should look at the circumstances in which we lived. Moving from one system to another, imposing war... until '98. We had a peaceful reintegration and during that time it might not have been possible to do much, perhaps I say, the wishes of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are too great, expectations were too great and reality was showing something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why it's not too late right now, and I'm sure it'll be better and this law will get better and easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145710	Thank you, colleague Babic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145711	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Babic, you touched the Croat in BiH in your debate. Yes, the Croats in BiH were our great potential, a pool for demographic restoration, for those working part, but of course, that pool is very reduced today by war, which by economic crisis, which is the disrespect of the rights of Croats living in BiH, which is one problem we discuss whenever there are issues and rights of Croats outside Croatia and the other thing that you have talked about here, you have made a good comparison that this flag may not represent anything but perhaps some pieces of canvas but some of it represents a lot, so Croatian citizenship will certainly mean a lot more to some people than others, and I think that the time has come is certain to speed up the welcome to Croatian citizenship of many who have been waiting for it for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145712	Thank you. Answer, colleague Babic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145713	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The political issue is the issue of all issues for all Croats and all political options in the Republic of Croatia are the issue of the position of Croats in BiH. It wasn't just a demographic pool, it was also for the safety of the Republic itself. The Republic of Croatia is aware of this, and I think that the prime minister often speaks of it in international organisations, so the consistency of all three peoples of the Serbian, Bosniak and Croatian peoples is definitely not to give up. As for what you said only about citizenship, about the Croats in BiH, I think it's done a lot. It is precisely because the Republic of Croatia is aware of what the Croats in the BiH area mean. I would like the situation to be different on economic issues, but also then the question that it is so good in Croatia that all Croats from BiH would also not be well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145714	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145715	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Babic, you spoke of the great potential of Croatian emigration outside Croatia. The fact is that through this law it is important to simplify the implementation of evidence for members of the Croatian people who do not even have evidence of the belonging of the Croatian people for whose parents are undoubtedly determined to belong to the Croatian people, as well as the acquisition of Croatian citizenship by birth to minor children. We have seen colleagues propose two amendments on behalf of the Committee on Immigrants, which would devise the acquisition of the status of Croatian citizenship. In practice, I believe that in the context of this performance and speech that here we should find a way and introduce such, such regulations that all members of the Croatian people are delegated to obtaining the status of a Croatian citizen. And I believe it is also in the context of these benefits and achievements they would achieve. By including the entire eviction. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145716	... a colleague of Škorić's. My colleague Babic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145717	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament something was answered by Mr. Secretary of State at the beginning, so the French have a code of civilians, the Germans have these clustergesetses, other countries, let's say the Italians have something similar, each country has its own specificities. One of the categories I spoke was the economy or economic factor related to Croatian emigration. But he's not the only one. The strengthening of the political Republic of Croatia can also be done with our Croatian emigration but in a completely different way today. To make Croats not only valuable, creative, fair, good and working outside, but that they are also in the Republic of Croatia. And the moment people start coming back here because of these attractions, certain things that are related to the Croatian Citizenship Act will probably need to be changed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145718	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145719	In your presentation, you highlighted improvements in the text of the bill and said these improvements value the role of Croatian emigrantism in creating a Croatian state. Of course, this is also important to highlight, but does it seem to you that it should bear in mind the even more important importance of obtaining Croatian citizenship for Croats outside the territory of BiH or the Croats of Serbia or Montenegro who are in the status of a national minority so that through their relationship with the acquisition of opportunities, a more liberal acquisition of Croatian citizenship, more strong support to insist on achieving an equal position in BiH and to work as a national minority in Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145720	Thank you. My colleague Babic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145721	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you in 12 European countries 550,000 Croats of national minorities definitely deserve citizenship or passport from the Republic of Croatia. In a special way, it seems to me in the Republic of Montenegro, somewhere around 6,000 Croats, at the beginning of the Homeland War in '91. The year was somewhere around 11,000, so these are the Croatian national minorities who are de facto disappearing, which are being assimilated into Montenegrin society unfortunately. And in the Republic of Serbia of 120,000 today we are somewhere at 55,000 and the Croatian national minority deserves not only the attention, respect, help, reciprocity and members of the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia at least to be partially complemented by reciprocity in Republika Srpska at the Croatian National Assembly, we have made one Nice move. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145722	Next debate, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145723	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Our colleagues and colleagues have long heard and said that Croatia has great power in its numerous diaspora and that it is necessary to encourage and enable Croatians to return to their homeland for Croatia's progress. Although we have long heard this, this government has taken such an important step with this proposal that our emigrants and their descendants would try to return to their homeland, where they can continue to develop their knowledge and experience and invest it in the development of Croatia. This bill significantly simplifies and facilitates the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for all Croatian emigrants, their descendants and spouses, and for the first time in this way, I consider it commendable and commendable. Thus, this will help solve demographic issues, as the process of obtaining Croatian citizenship for members of Croatian people abroad is easier and will in some way encourage their entry into demographic, social and other potentials in Croatia, Croatian society. Compared to the first reading and what we got today, so here we have seen through the debate that we have had, important improvements where additional regulation is being made and facilitates the way this citizenship is acquired where there are nomotechnically certain deadlines that have been adjusted, here is a deleted period of 45 days in which the competent ministry gives an opinion on the reception of a foreigner into Croatian citizenship, in more detail and norms competent for the submission of requests for acquisition, termination and designation of citizenship and therefore a number of other improvements. To welcome is what this law provides and this is a question of redundancy because it is most often done in the acquisition of another citizenship when a country whose nationality has acquired the condition to deliver a discharge from Croatian citizenship. In addition, this law provides for and allows for the possibility and lifting or repealing of a solution to the acquisition of citizenship that has been acquired for benefit, by false representation of, for example, identity theft and crimes against humanity and human dignity for the most serious crimes. So, so far, it has not become a way of undoing or abolishing this, I have seen that this proposal has caused a lot of reactions, especially in the area and legal practice, and among other things, has been addressed by the Ombudsman, who said that it is a situation of confiscation of citizenship to a Croatian citizen, it is not because it is a matter of taking away citizenship and this proposal does not derivate such a provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, however, it is a matter of introducing a procedural form of repealing or abolishing a solution in a special procedure when it is manifestly malciful or dangerous intention of a person who wants to receive Croatian citizenship. Of course, Croatia's duty under international legal rules is to combat the creation of apathrides of people without citizenship and that obligation Croatia fulfils, on the other hand, Croatian citizenship is an institute that provides protection for every individual whose nationality is worn and this article introduces a procedural fuse, bearing in mind the growing global dangers facing the whole world. It is also a duty for Croatia to protect its society from these dangers. As I was saying, this is not about derogating any material provisions or taking away citizenship but only about a new procedural form. However, we have had a problem in adopting and proposing this provision which has mixed up our concepts and withdrawals and annulments because of Article 9. The Constitution states, therefore, that Croatian citizenship and its acquisition and termination are governed by the law which should and should be laid down by this law until paragraph 2 states that the citizen of the Republic of Croatia cannot be exiled from the Republic of Croatia, nor can his citizenship be taken away, etc. So, because of this situation here and the HDZ Club has reacted, and in fact, since these provisions in Article 15 have not been sufficiently regulated, as well as the principle of proportionality, it is proposed that this article is now eliminated, deleted, adapted, but that, in some other amendments to the law, we should certainly find ways to take away citizenship from persons who are guilty and illegal, in a false way and we have heard today through the debate and we see also in public life and individuals who have received Croatian citizenship, who abuse it and do not refer to their own country in the way that they should be treated and when acquired, it is very questionable how the conditions for obtaining Croatian citizenship have been met. In any case, I welcome the adoption of this law, and I suggest that here, in future amendments, be kept in mind that this institution is being installed, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145724	Thank you, fellow Skoric. Next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145725	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The debate on the Law on Croatian Citizenship is an opportunity for the Croatian Assembly to again repeatedly show the opposition of ideological positions towards the legal and political heritage of both the former states and other states in which Croats lived in the past. Today we could hear that citizenship is primarily a political and not ethnic category and a number of other assessments, even some doubts that are simply read if the original foundations of the Republic of Croatia are respected, where it is emphasized that the Republic of Croatia is a national state of Croatian people, minorities living in the Republic of Croatia and others, and that is enough to understand the need to define in a more precise, more responsible, wider way and the concept of how the doubts are raised here, who are members of the Croatian people, who are Croatian emigrants, to whom the issue of Croatian emigrants is concerned, because it is precisely in the answers to questions that are seen, reflected a responsible or irresponsible relationship to our recent past but also our modernity and future of the Croatian nation and in general Croatian nations. Croatians from other ethnic areas, therefore, living together with the territory of today's Republic of Croatia in the former countries, are also listed in the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and by respecting these original bases can be found in one rational way to respond when the issue of Croatian emigrants is defined and when it is asked for more liberal conditions for obtaining Croatian citizenship for Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia and in a special way for Croats in emigration. Because precisely our recent past, so the past of the former Yugoslavia and the period of disintegration of the former Yugoslavia with all the dates that are significant for modern Croatian history must be evaluated more responsibly by the provisions of the law, in particular by such a law as the Law on Croatian Citizenship, for the reason that we will thus show our mature responsibility for the future that awaits us not only in the Republic, but in the case of Croats of BiH and Croatian minorities in 12 European states. Therefore, the concept of emigrants involves not only emigrants from the Republic of Croatia but emigrants from BiH, Croatia, the Croatian emigrants from Serbia-Montenegro who today act in numerous organisations as a single Croatian emigrant, and we must appreciate what message it would be to leave room for evaluations of emigrants, Croatian emigrants in the provisions of the Law on Croatian citizenship, second or third categories, respecting the special way and modernity of Croatian emigrants spoken of by fellow Shkipola. And how important it is to respect his evaluations for the reason that we must be current and follow all trends within Croatian emigration, and the previous 19th, 20th century, times of the former Yugoslavia, as well as the emigration that has been created in the last 2, 3 decades. With one such approach, we will create assumptions that we are not stressing our special gratitude for Croatian emigration, for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia at the time of the creation of the Republic of Croatia, but to show maturity that as members of the Croatian nation we value the fact that today Croats live in 12 European states, to live in emigration, but also to live in BiH which is too important for the future of the Republic of Croatia. With respect to all these facts, there will be no doubt how to define the concept of Croats outside Croatia, how to define the concept of members of Croatian people, who are Croatian emigrants, but also in one civilized and responsible way to respect all others born in the Republic of Croatia, who live in the Republic of Croatia today or who once lived. For all there is room, for all there is space and if in such a way all the facts of our legal political heritage are valued then it will not be assessed that citizenship is only a political and not an ethnic category and that it ensures a political identity which we know is unfortunately not from our recent past, but ethnic identity is confirmed in the newly created Croatian state. I do appreciate, however, that it is important to point out that the proposed text of the law has respected a series of assessments that have been made and at the meeting of the Council for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia in Sibenik in our earlier debate in the Croatian Parliament and if these amendments have been put in place, we will certainly have one more quality text from the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, but I stress that there is also a need to respect the allegations and requests and colleagues that, for the reasons of our recent past, for the specific definition of the former Republic Law on Citizenship, have made one part of the objection to the proposed text of the law. When all of this is sublimed, therefore, the text of the final text of the Law on Croatian Citizenship will be one quality text and will allow all those interested, not only in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but also in the territory of the Republic of BiH, Croats who are in the status of national minorities, but especially in Croatian emigrants, who will also receive a clear message through these possibilities that a category within the Croatian nation is desirable and that there is a relationship with them, and that will surely encourage many to also apply for Croatian citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145726	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Dear fellow Angelko Stick, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145727	Thank you. A colleague of Raguž, before you in the debate, Babić stated that the acquisition of citizenship is a solemn act, that for the Croatian tricolour, coat of arms, red white cubes literally die and we had the opportunity to convince ourselves of that in '91. A year. Many of the descendants of our Croats, when Croatia was attacked, came to help, but not just them, but many foreigners who had no contact with Croatia until then, or were the first to contact them in the defense of Croatia. I therefore believe that this law should give opportunity to all those who participated in the defense of our country or its descendants, closer to family acquisition of citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145728	Thank you. My colleague Raguž's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145729	In the part where citizenship and the political category are and in the part where other peoples, particularly volunteers in the Homeland War, have shown respect for the struggle of the Croatian people for the achievement of the Croatian state, there must be a strong basis to be respected and what was in the proposal of the Croatian Ministry of Defence to recognise these persons out of respect and status, so that the political Croats, when they expressed their support to the Croatian people, are in critical stages of our efforts to achieve Croatian statehood.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145730	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145731	Comrade Raguž, in your debate you referred to the concepts of political and ethnic Croats. So, I am sorry that the person who introduced that term to the debate is no longer there but the same person, the same policy when it comes to the context of this law in the Republic of Croatia, favours the notion of a political Croat compared to an ethnic Croat, and when it comes to Croatian representation in BiH, then an ethnic Croat is enough to represent Croats in BiH instead of political Croats. However, the most important thing is that I say so here and you pointed out in your debate, that we should leave in the Republic of Croatia an administrative-burocratic approach to resolving the issue of Croatian citizenship otherwise the issue of immigration and demographicism and access to one strategic-political approach faced with the fact that Croatia is demographically impoverishing and therefore we need both the immigration strategy and the immigration law and the liberalisation of the Law on Citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145732	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145733	So if the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are respected, then surely they can't stand the grades we heard today stressing the ambition and fact of political Croatianism at the expense of ethnic Croatia and how well you cited this example when it comes to BiH being abused by the same advocates who have been making such assessments today. Of course, there is enough ethnicity in BiH to be the subject of the manipulation of the majority people and to welcome political violence against the Croatian people in BiH from the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145734	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145735	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Raguž, in your presentation you mentioned the emigration of Croats outside Croatia. I ask myself a question sometimes, so here you are, how much effort have we made to give the people out there a chance for the Croats to enter Croatia? Of course, there were always obstacles. We saw in BiH yesterday when we were visiting Orasje and Brcko, so you saw how many Croats complain about institutions that they can't easily get to citizenship. I know this is a little bit better and more liberal than it was, but it could have been done much better to make it easier and faster. Unfortunately, someone says we're taking back the law as Vesna Pusic, God forbid we bring it back when it ruled and that time, probably never would the Croat enter Croatia. So I'm not surprised, but I'm surprised we brought it all so slowly and it's been so long, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145736	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145737	We were able to witness the importance of interaction between Croatians on the two sides of the border, so BiH and the Republic of Croatia, mutual respect, appreciation for the benefits that such an interaction offers for the future of the Croatian nation, it is also important when it comes to the feeling of Croatian emigrants on the need and interaction at all levels of social organisation in science and culture and all other segments of social life, and it is just such an interaction that is supposed to enable the Croatian nation and the assessment that we have heard today that this law has been seen in the past, they are just saying that such persons are perceptive to the past and that they want to keep the Croatian people in the past rather than allow it to have a future within the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145738	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Marin Škibola, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145739	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It should be said that today we are discussing a very important law on Croatian citizenship and we can conclude that some things are improved by these amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, but I personally am not that this law goes to the vote tomorrow, I believe that it should be given for a third reading precisely because of those criticisms and those constructive criticisms that have been brought here today by parliamentary deputies. One of the key amendments to the Law on Citizenship is seen in an amendment to the definition of Croatian emigrants, so far it has been limited to obtaining citizenship to the third degree of relation, this law removes it and the possibility of obtaining citizenship extends to a greater number of people of Croatian origin. Personally, I believe that this good change, I support such a change, will motivate many citizens of Croatian origin who want to get citizenship to submit such a request that it has not been the case before and have not been able to do so before. On the other hand, they and their spouses are released from the obligation to meet the assumption of knowledge of Croatian language and Latin script, Croatian culture and social order. I object to giving citizenship to people who do not know either the basics of Croatian language or have the motivation to learn at least the basics of Croatian language, history and culture. I believe that the Croatian language, history and culture are the basics of Croatian identity and that as a state we should stick to our identity, to our language, to our culture, to our history, therefore, would not be liberalised in this sense that citizenship is given to people who do not want to show any interest in learning the basics of Croatian language because then there will be cases that will teach requests for citizenship, as already mentioned here, just because we are in the European Economic Area and that they can be more EU citizens than they would like to be citizens of the Republic. The biggest problem I have pointed out before is the definition of Croatian emigrants. Croatian emigrants are not considered those who left the Republic of Croatia 2, 3, 5 or 10 years ago, these are mostly young people who left the Croatian state because of economic problems in the Republic of Croatia, and these are young people who love the Croatian state, and they are now who are now. in Germany and Ireland and who will have a spouse or have a spouse who is a foreign citizen simply restricts them to their spouse who is a foreign citizen gets Croatian citizenship, and Croatian emigrants are allowed to do so. I think we should reconsider that distinction that you've done on the so-called question. economic emigrants and Croatian emigrants and to remove that difference because it would be a positive move, as you have gone into liberalisation here on many issues, even in the end on issues that do not need to know the Croatian language, culture and history, then I think you can also go into liberalisation that the rights of Croatian emigrants such as the rights of Croatian emigrants, although I think it is a good move to think about it because in this way we will show all those young people who left the Croatian state that the Croatian state did not reject them and that the Croatian state wants them to return to the Republic, to live here and to start families here. Therefore, I can understand this historical context on October 8, 1991, but I say for these reasons that I have already stated, think that it is kind of modified and that it simply improves in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145740	Thank you, Mr. Schibol. Replica esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145741	Dear fellow Skibola, this proposal that you have tabled is very well-founded and useful and I join your request, the initiator from our amendments to the Law on Citizenship to amend it, introduce it, which is exactly what it is. Turns out this country first pushed its young people abroad two or three hundred thousand people out there, a large number of young people in it. They tomorrow, say, marry tomorrow, have a mate who's from another country and how they'll be back in the Republic of Croatia tomorrow if his wife can't come here and can't get citizenship. So, on the one hand, you want to help... The growth of birthrights, demographic expansion, and on the other hand it is effectively disabled, so who will return from abroad if he cannot bring his wife here to get citizenship and that he can enjoy everything he is. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, this means that you are extremely constructively considering and what you think about this proposal, so I urge you to change this while it's still time, and I'm asking you why this happened. The conflict? [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145742	...college Lovrinović. The answer of my fellow Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145743	Well, Mr. Lovrinović, thank you for this replica, you're a university professor, you know how many young people leave our country for existential reasons, and certainly this proposal that I made should be respected precisely because of these young people that don't feel rejected because they need to look into the truth. It should be said that these young people left this country for 20 years. The conduct of catastrophic economic and general policies led by parties such as HDZ and SDP and then they were first discriminated against, and such a proposal does not give them the opportunity to their marriage partners of citizenship, they are secondly discriminated and should be removed as quickly as possible by such regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145744	Thank you, Mr. Schibol. Next debate, dear fellow professor Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, a lot has been said about the Law on Citizenship, so perhaps I would only stick to two, two points that I think the first one is not fully acceptable, and the second one we need to defecate. The first remark is related to the Article. St. 3. If I'm not mistaken who says so, the emigrant from the 1st century of this law is a person who before October 8, 1991. She moved out of the Republic of Croatia in order to live abroad all the time. The provision that October 8th is the day when we should count that there is a modern and independent Croatian state is simply wrong. On 25 October, HS made two decisions, a constitutional decision on sovereignty and independence, and a declaration of declaration of sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia. In this constitutional decision, the first article reads, the Republic of Croatia is declared a sovereign and independent state. The second article, in this act of the Republic of Croatia, initiates the process of deleveraging from other republics and SFRY, the Republic of Croatia is initiating the procedure for international recognition. Thus, what he wants to move to October 8th simply does not stand. The Brijuni Declaration requiring Croatia to postpone its application is simply something that the Croatian Parliament has never verified, on the one hand, since 25 October the Croatian Parliament has made a series of laws and decisions such as, during this period until 8 October as sovereign state, therefore there is no reason to accept this date and in this law simply because it brings both defenders and a series of other people to the least extent in one gray zone, if or perhaps it allows others to claim that they were all illegal or illegal troops. Therefore, this is one important reason why this provision on the date when, when it is considered that, when the status of emigrants begins, when it is due to be changed on 25 June of '91. A year. And I think that's something that needs to be seriously considered, especially since we have one more reason, because that October 8th was only introduced if I'm not wrong in 2001 or '02. But even then, the majority who passed a change of these laws actually introduced this confusion in a double way, I'm not talking about motives now, but legal conjecture because on October 25th it declared Statehood Days in terms of the creation of the Croatian state, and October 8th on Independence Day. Another item that I think simply doesn't work, although the Proposer has suggested that Croatian citizenship can be annulled here only now heard a proposal or amendment even from the HDZ Club that this item is withdrawn by calling on the expert opinions of constitutional judges that it is impossible to take away citizenship from someone who has had that citizenship. However, it is about specific actions or situations where a fraud has led to citizenship, not someone who has that nationality by birth or by all these other actions that are not, are not questionable but by fraud, falsification of documents or something else has come to that nationality. I'm not a lawyer, so I don't know what's the difference between taking away and revoking citizenship, but I don't think we can just tolerate someone getting to citizenship by cheating without doing anything against such a person. It's just common sense that's not acceptable. So before the law's intensities to facilitate procedures to reach citizenship, therefore the whole drive that approves citizenship, must demand for citizenship, must work faster, make mistakes more effective, or can happen more often, more often. Transferring responsibility to a state that didn't go all the way through, it's just not justified. Take an example of some other countries, take an example of the United States there even if you give false information for a visa and it will cancel your visa, as well as citizenship if you get a false statement and confirmation. So I say here you should consult, see what's the difference between seduction and annulment and just go back to being something that's illegal, which is criminally not tolerated. I would normally not be confused if Croatia were to be very flexible in granting citizenship to Croats outside of Croatia, it is in our interest, however much you look at, from demographics, from political, from cultural, emotional, however this procedure should be opened, too, for those who wish to benefit from the abuse of Croatian citizenship, the state should be protected there. And in that sense, I would ask that, if this formulation were to be specified. It is not disputed for me that it cannot be that someone is deprived of citizenship especially if it is only citizenship because he has committed crimes against Croatia or I do not know humanity or how it goes. I don't think that can be acceptable, but this, this part about fraud as the way it happened, got citizenship that it had to stay in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145746	I thank my colleague Tudjman. We have a replica. Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145747	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, you have well pointed out that this law has opened flexibility for those who wish to acquire Croatian citizenship, who want to invest or live in Croatia first and foremost, but you have also raised the question that a category of citizens who have acquired that citizenship should be developed on fraud. This law has not now been worked out. As far as I know, we have guarantees from the MUP that this will be seriously dealt with in due course because it is a very demanding job, and even 25 EU Member States are predicting the seizure of citizenship in the event of fraud. Therefore, Croatia should not be an exception, especially if we are comparing ourselves with some of the democracies that you mentioned that have a very flexible system of obtaining citizenship, but not liberal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145748	Thank you. Comrade Tudjman's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145749	Thank you colleagues for this replica, so I think it's just natural that the state must protect its, first state, its citizens and so on and then citizenship to whom, to whom it is assigned if it is in this case of a second, another citizenship and that there must be mechanisms to protect it. It's just that I said legally it's inexplicable that something that's acquired by fraud, and otherwise we're full of mouths in this assembly that we're against corruption, crime, etc., and when it comes to this one key thing to being a citizen of the Republic, then we want to leave it undefined so that I don't say anything else, leave it undefined that someone who cheats on it can keep it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145750	I thank my colleague Tudjman. Next debate, respected counterpart Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145751	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Law on Citizenship in Croatia so far I believe that he was rigorous, that he was difficult for Croats especially evicted. Why am I saying that? As far as I know some people were getting somewhere around 10,000 they got a slight citizenship without checking and these people who are still today, have citizenship and work against the interest of the Croatian state. That's what we need to talk about. We know that we have economic migrants, we know political immigrants who left after II. World War I, the economics that went to '91. and later and simply not to believe that this law is so little right now, I can say that this law has some basis and I see that it would have gone a little faster if we hadn't liberalized and tortured our citizens for months and years and waited for a solution on citizenship. It's been clear to me for a long time watching these 30 years as quickly as we wanted those Croats back. Of course someone slowed it down, for which reasons it was very difficult to say, but it can be assumed. Looking at today's debates in the assembly, we saw that some are asking the question, who are these Croats, what do they really mean, why should they just come? We're taking the laws back somewhere, why and that's asking a question. When the issue of immigrants is heard and they should be speeded up and given, I feel for these people, of course it's a great tragedy of a nation and more people, but these checks have to be detailed, and in fact people don't have, they don't have any documents at all. But the Croats who both father and mother are Croats, who are baptized in church, their children have a big problem in BiH, yesterday we were visiting Orash, Brcko, we heard from the people who lead the Croats there, the former mayor of Brcko, Oras, who have a daily problem in getting citizenship. It was embarrassing and I think that this relationship Croatia should not have with its citizens, in fact to the Croats in BiH. Not only are they in charge and in debt, which is true Croats a constituent people, a people who belong to BiH as well as to all other peoples, although we are among the first peoples who lived in BiH of these three peoples constitutionally, but unfortunately there are no privileges in Croatia either. I must convey their regrets, in Brcko none of our presidents, the prime minister has ever come, I must know because I am from that area too, there are many Croats there, but none of the official officials came to talk about the prime minister and presidents, in order to at least give moral support to those people. Furthermore, we have a demographic problem, and we have 3 million Croats outside of Croatia, they do not need them, 3 to 4 million have not yet determined exactly that number. We should be aware that these are the closest Croats and Croats who loved this Croatian state and who gave very, very much for, in the war for the Croatian country who even came to defend it themselves without talking about money and other aids. Of course, we quickly forgot it or wanted to forget it, or today we will judge the same because someone is not as fond of the Croatian state as I think I am. Why am I saying that? Demography is what it is and this few young people are leaving, we businessmen have no one else to hire in Croatia, then it is no one's fault. We're all guilty, including businessmen, craftsmen, we're all guilty, politicians. How do you solve this problem? Now is not the problem we are guilty or not guilty of, just liberalising the laws, making a legal state, security, feeling people all have the same rights and every child having the same rights as everyone and of all politicians, and any child from the workers to see it as one good. Of course, it's not like that until now, here's the other day when it's Statehood Day I'm asking a question and symbols, putting on houses flags, when holidays are all sorts of, Statehood Day is a trade of work, it's a shame, it's a shame that trades work for Statehood Day, it's underestimating that day, I wonder whether politicians and Croatian people are doing trade in Zagreb and everywhere, not just in Zagreb and Sunday, we talked and I'm an entrepreneur, we're not protecting that worker, we're not protecting him, we're not protecting him, he's going to go, who's guilty then? It's not politics, it's not employers, and we're all guilty, and in this case it's also the policy that didn't ban work on Sundays, it's not yesterday, it's been going on for years, mothers have to sell milk and bread on Sundays, they can't make their children lunch. Of course we're all guilty, especially of politics, and the people have chosen us here to fight for that people, to work for that people, to do some jobs fairly, and you've been chosen by those who sit in the MUP, who sit in the ministries and who sit in, ambassadors and such, to receive these people from outside, to send them to the Republic as quickly as possible, to do everything in the Republic, not in the embassies or consulates, that the sooner they get to that solution, if they check it out, that those who sell have to work for 8 hours and check and that's their responsibility, and it's someone's got to monitor it and ask why someone waited for a year or six months or two years they couldn't win. That's the question that we here at HS need to solve, of course we have one comfort, we can and we don't have to. I know what tents are, what coming is, what waiting is, what laziness is, me if in some things, half things, half of them would fire half of them. No, I got paid out of the budget safely, I don't have to sweat it, and those workers who work there on the track on the +35 set up and get 4,000,00 kn they have to do it in their sweat and earn their money and all the workers, including mine who do, and we enjoy all the privileges,... that we are respected, that we are very important, and the other is irrelevant, because he is nothing, and you see how our workers go to Germany, Austria, Ireland, this is how they keep both masters and are respected and respected, we do not respect them, we consider them illiterate, uneducated, and foolish, and they respect them there. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I'm asking you and this law that should be even more liberal to solve it faster, and what we've two amendments instructed to introduce it into this new law, and to make it a little bit more liberal and it's going to go a little faster, you're responsible, it's not us anymore, it's you, and we're going to see what happens next year, we're going to try to see how much you've given, how many checks have been made, and how many people are in the village. Of course, you can't, but if they came to you, you have to solve it quickly, we've been suggested, I think that's what my colleague Brkic suggested for 45 days, that's what I think quite enough, so let's make it 60, but it can't be 6 months, so I'm asking you to start doing, to act that this people, this troubled country, this beautiful country, have, and have a poor one, it's a shame, I support this government, and I think they're doing very, very, very good jobs lately, and it's got my support, but there's a gap of course that can't put a hand anywhere, but there's got to be a responsibility, so there are some people who control it, so you can control everything, and this is how many of our citizens we're going to torture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145752	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. We have replicas, a respected colleague of the Professor's. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145753	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Misic, you have been talking about the rigorous process of gaining citizenship so far, and you have mentioned BiH and an example of Catholic parishes where all are recorded who parents and nationality are and so on. However, the same examples occur in Australia, one specific example of a person should wait a few days ago, it was a year ago situation, I don't know if it was solved in the meantime, waiting for a few years for citizenship, no matter what in the parish, the Catholic parish says who the parents are, that the Croat is of origin, etc. Therefore, the procedure should also include consular staff who, with their testimony, can speed up the process, not for months or years, and in this respect, should be speeded up, and this law should be based on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145754	I thank my colleague Tudjman. The answer of my colleague, Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145755	Thank you. Comrade Tudjman thank you for, that I was yesterday and I listened to both priests and others who gave their baptism that they had, that they were baptized and so, however, it goes very slowly and that, in fact, this paper does not need according to our laws as it is. And in Australia when you mentioned, since I have brothers there, since my brother has a son, who has a Misic, in fact Misic wanted to put himself up, six months he waited not to know if he won today, if they were checking him if he was a Croat, where he came from, and so, so, for that he should have waited six months. Here's exactly what I'm talking about, they just send it to the consulate in Zagreb, it doesn't stay there and the embassy, but here someone's holding those processes back.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145756	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145757	Great, thank you, and I hope that the procedure should be responsible anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145758	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145759	Thank you very much, dear fellow Music. Here's a lead on the replica of professor. You are absolutely right that Croats from BiH and other countries have had difficulties, and that many of whom the Republic of Croatia has called and returned to the Republic of Croatia that they have had problems with obtaining Croatian citizenship, and for years we have also witnessed that many of those who are also on discretionary rights, who have not earned any Croatian citizenship, have received that citizenship. But it is precisely the intensity of this law that the deadlines are reduced, that they go expressly into the procedure by both the Resorship Ministry and the Office of State Administration to improve this and to avoid such situations as to create frustrations towards people who need to get Croatian citizenship. And I believe this law will get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145760	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145761	Thank you, Mr. Skoric, I fully agree with you. When my colleague Tudjman said that consulates should answer that if I handed over the consulate and anywhere from the consulates, they should urinate in the state to get rid of it as soon as possible. In BiH, there are major problems for Croats, unfortunately it is embarrassing, of course, after so many years, that we check for both father and mother, and they are all Croats and then again check whether you are Croat and baptized and birth certificates and everything else but it goes hard. Hopefully now, after this law, it will go faster and more effectively, and we'll check it out after a year, and I'll probably still be there, and we'll see how that goes. The consulates and embassies should be responsible for the speed of the process, if not, that's what Comrade Tudjman said well, then we haven't done anything again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145762	I thank my colleague Misic for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145763	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable secretary of state with his associates. This is after so many debates I can't say without really repeating myself with my predecessors about this law. We see he's from '91. A few cosmetic changes were made on it. This is the first major amendment to the Croatian emigration initiative, the government has set up a working group that, together with the relevant institutions, has worked on the proposal of this law that I support. We see that here we have 4 ways of gaining Croatian citizenship that is originating, born in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, international contracts and naturalisation. We also see that they have three ways of ending Croatian citizenship, which is by firing, giving up and international contracts. Of course, we have all waited to simplify the acquisition, that is, to speed up and simplify the acquisition of Croatian citizenship, especially our emigrants, they have made an immeasurable contribution to the restoration of our homeland, and I believe that today they can still make their big contribution when it comes to demographics, but also when it comes to that economic contribution. Somewhere earlier in my replica, I said that the Croats in BiH are our large pool on demographics, as well as all other needs that the Croatian people and contributions from the Croatian people from BiH have when it comes to the Republic of Croatia. Of course I also welcome these changes that were made between the first and second readings, and that is that for the acquisition of Croatian citizenship by the origin of a child born abroad whose parent is a Croatian citizen at the time of birth where the age limit is increasing to 21 years, but here is a committee tabled an amendment where, of course, the deadline would be extended to 5 years from the date of entry of this law. So we also see the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for descendants without knowledge of Croatian language and the movement of course of this generation constraint that it regulates the status of the citizens of the missing and mortally injured in the Homeland War, which is also very important. I also said in my introduction that our emigrants have made an immeasurable contribution, they want to co-operate with their homeland, there are great potential and I believe that this law will certainly contribute to the acceleration of Croatian citizenship. And here my colleagues spoke of, of course, the solemn oath of accession to Croatian citizenship, of course, that will be regulated by the regulation because we see that it is not in the law here, it should not be mandatory but for all those who are honored to be admitted to Croatian citizenship I think we should implement it and here is the rule, I see it standing in this second reading of the law. Here I finally welcome, of course, this law and we expect all services to work quickly and there will be no such procedure that has been truly long-term and exhausting so far, and that all those who have conditions will be speeded up to Croatian citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145764	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145765	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the regulation of the status of citizens to the deadly and missing Croatian defenders, which provides for this law. It's a shame that we've had a long time, and even at a time of war when people who didn't have Croatian citizenship or died in the war took years to process and prove to the state institutions, and in some ways it took lobbying. Here as a member of the Croatian Army, therefore, we had died where we had to look for ways to resolve that status. As a rule of determining that status occurs only at the moment of death or finding a missing person and we know that today we have a large number of missing people when families encounter this problem, so after identifying death when certain property legal issues should be resolved and others. And it is very positive that this law removes any need for proof and that this procedure is quickly resolved. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145766	Thank you. Answer from a colleague named Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145767	Thank you very much. Well, yes, dear colleague, the law states that the Croatian Defence Ministry has delivered a list of 438 missing, or dead Croatian defenders. 150 of them have not been resolved the status of a Croatian citizen that is regulated by this law and I said in my debate that here is the provision I welcome because if we should at least give them thanks in this way for everything they have given in the defence of the Croatian homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145768	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145769	I would like to thank the esteemed chairman, the esteemed secretary of state, with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. It's really very short. Of course, the HNS Club supports any liberalisation and this in front of us today, where we are talking about Amendments and Supplements to Croatian citizenship, of course, that those main goals are certainly commendable, although I must point out a certain doubt because today Croatian citizenship is very interesting precisely because of EU membership and they are well aware of our BiH citizens and compatriots who skip Croatia this time are going to work on other areas of the EU, so we need to do a lot of other things to do with this affirmation of emigration and return what is within the meaning of this law. So I don't count everything else. What I'm trying to say is that, as a club of HNS, we will support the amendment, the second amendment of the SDSS Club of Representatives. In fact, we really feel that we have one chance now, I'm not going to say historical but really an opportunity to correct the injustice that was in the former state. We are talking here specifically about citizens, or children born outside the country of origin of Croatia with both parents of Croats. So both parents had citizenship at the time of the SFRY, but they were wrongly, with a loss written to the residence. We know that citizenship can be obtained either by blood or by birth, or by the way we learn it legally, but by some mistakes in the code, most often by mistake, the matriarchs were enrolled in another republican citizenship and then the law that children who, regardless of their birth where they were born, have the right to citizenship if both their parents are citizens of that state. So I think it's absolutely something we could prescribe here that all of that until October 8 is actually '91. to actually apply, to correct that mistake for all those who undoubtedly had both parents citizens, regardless of their place of birth, regardless of being registered as other republics of that time, Yugoslavia to allow them to do so. It would actually correct one mistake that I don't know why it happened because others have used it, and where it's changed, unfortunately there's no retro possibility of correcting it unless we prescribe it by law. That's why we're going to support that second amendment. Naturally, in nature, we support the law itself, given our simplification of the procedure and the possibility of liberalisation, therefore, and the child born... Her parents, a provision on regular acquisitions and everything that makes it easier for Croatian citizenship to be gained, of course, with the goal of bringing people back, and not with the goal of someone else who I said at the beginning, because then we still have to change other laws because only this will not be enough for us to have one prerequisite where we make things easier and many other things still need to be fixed and done so that we really don't have those expatriates, that we don't talk about the present back, or their descendants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145770	I thank my colleague Curai. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. We are now moving to a statement on amendments tabled to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club, the SDSS Representatives' Club, the Croatians' Committee outside the Republic of Croatia and the SDP's Advocacy Club. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We move to the first amendment of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia. I'd like the secretary of state at the MUP, the respected Mr. Zarko Katic, to give us an indication of the amendment submitted, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept the first amendment of the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, however, respects the intensities that all those whose parents are Croatian citizens have failed to register their child, that this is regulated by these provisions of the law, which we have already arranged in this article for people who have not turned 22 and the Government will regulate this issue with its amendment and those who have reached 21 years of age. So the government will propose and regulate this issue with its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145773	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145774	On behalf of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, I can inform the Croatian Parliament that the Committee accepts this formulation of the Government, in fact the Committee saw that the new law allows people who did not enroll their parents in Croatian citizenship by 18 years of age to do so by 21 years of age, but we noticed that after 22 years, people would not be covered by this law, so we proposed a deadline of 5 years, but we agree with the government's formulation to cut that deadline to 2 years, because on the Ministry's web pages, we will try to ensure that all those who have the right to do so inform so that the Committee accepts this formulation of the Government and give up its amendment I take it back, yeah. [[/Intruder Brkic: So you're withdrawing the amendment?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145775	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second amendment of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145776	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment but accepts the intensity to pass on the definition of emigrants and has done so with its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145777	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145778	So, the Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia noted that in the original proposal for amendments and amendments to the law stood the definition of Croatian emigrants, so the persons who moved out of today's Republic of Croatia by October 8, 1991, we actually considered and of course, and now that would include the division into Croatian emigrants that functioned as a single corpus in emigrants, and we suggested that the persons who had moved out of Croatian ethnic spaces in the composition that the Croatian state was once. The government's formulation in their amendment actually solves one problem that could have arisen if we had remained in the original definition in the amendment of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, at least it would be difficult to define which of these are Croatian ethnic spaces. The current formulation says that there are members of the Croatian people who have moved out of the areas in which Croatia was once part of which, I say, the association Croatia used to be. Therefore, we accept this government formulation and withdraw the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145779	Thank you, Mr. Ljubic. We are moving on to the third amendment of the SDP Representatives' Club, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145780	The amendment is not accepted. The current provision of the Law on Croatian Citizenship as well as the proposed amendment to this provision defining the concept of emigrants is, in the opinion of the promoter, clear and precise and there is no need to change the word "alien" in the word "there".
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145781	Thank you. There are no applicants, so we will vote on this amendment. We're moving on to the fourth amendment of the same Club of Representatives of the SDP, please welcome State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145782	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, a valid provision of art. 11 The Law on Croatian Citizenship under which an emigration person is not considered among others a person who changed residence to other countries who were in the composition of the state union to which the Republic of Croatia belonged, was subject and assessed by the Constitutional Court of 2013 and the Constitutional Court Decision of 2013 did not accept the proposal to initiate the procedure for the assessment of consent with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, at the time of the existence of the FNRJ or the SFRY, it was not possible to move to another republic but only abroad, therefore this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145783	Thank you. Since none of the applicants are present, we will vote on the amendment. We're moving on to the fifth amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Here's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145784	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 5 is not accepted, the reasons are the same as for Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145785	Thank you. Dear fellow Milosevic, are you voting or withdrawing? You're pulling, thank you very much. [[Intruder Milosevic: We withdraw.]] We're moving on to the sixth amendment, here's the Secretary of State, the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145786	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the view is that the applicant is a request for which one parent is established as a member of the Croatian people, he would not have to submit evidence of his or her belonging to the Croatian people, so it is contrary to the provisions of the applicable law but it is established that both constitutional and administrative practice is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145787	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We are moving on to the seventh amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145788	Amendment No. Seven is not accepted. Namely, if this amendment were accepted, a member of each of the 22 national minorities in the Republic of Croatia listed under the original constitution of the Republic of Croatia could therefore gain Croatian citizenship by the fact that he is a member of that minority and that there is no, that he has not violated the rules, so there is no conviction for certain criminal offences. In this regard, of course, all minorities living in the Republic of Croatia, who have originally acquired citizenship, are absolutely using this right. This applies, therefore, to new members of those people whom, as we know, had tens and hundreds of millions, and they really could not have gained Croatian citizenship under this so-favoured provision. So, the amendment refuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145789	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We move to the 8th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145790	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145791	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. We move to the 9th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145792	The amendment is not accepted. This amendment is the same as the previous amendment that was accepted, but it was not technically made, so it cannot be accepted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145793	Thank you. We'll vote on the SDP amendment. We move on to the 10th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145794	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, it has been widely set and in some segments it is imprecise, however, since at the time of the existence of the other Yugoslavia there were three federal laws and in the Republic of Croatia three republican laws which in different ways resolved the acquisition of citizenship or conflicts of jurisdiction between the laws of certain republics and provinces and when this amendment was accepted, so all persons whose parents were Croatian citizens at the time could acquire citizenship, but only once between 1977 and 1991, then the applicable law explicitly recognized that children born from Croatian citizens must acquire Croatian citizenship. So there was no other option to gain citizenship by residence or by any other legal basis. Therefore, the government, this amendment will be rejected, but the government will address this issue properly with its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145795	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We're moving on to the 11th Amendment of the SDSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145796	The same explanation as for Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145797	So, it refuses. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145798	As regards this amendment proposed by the SDSS Club, and the Government rejects it or regulates it with its amendment, we at the club can say that we are satisfied with the decision proposed by the Government and that it is good that after a few months the talks with the Government has been accepted to correct injustice against people who have lasted almost 30 years, that people born as Croatian citizens, whose parents, both Croatian citizens, who were only administratively enrolled then in the citizenship of the Socialist Republic, who were part of the then Yugoslavia, thus remained without citizenship primarily by misunderstanding of the administration. And I am glad that this error will finally be corrected by the adoption of a draft law which is on the agenda and that the Government has accepted and arranged this by its amendment in a way that will be acceptable. Thank you. We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145799	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the indication of the amendments submitted. We will vote on both amendments and the law. We move to the next item of the agenda that, before moving to the next item of the agenda, a colleague named Bauk appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145800	Mr Vice-President, since this law has long been at the waiting for a consensus within the ruling majority and that, that certain amendments have been accepted in part and that the Government has given some of its own, please, in a technical sense, that we get a review of the amendments accepted because it is so difficult to monitor with this oral part until the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145801	Thanks to our colleague, we could have dealt with it another way, but here you will be notified before the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145802	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian Citizenship, second reading, P.Z. No. 554, the proposal is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on such amendments must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 107 "for" and 1 "abstained" have decided to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to explain the amendments submitted, with us is the esteemed Zgorko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. We have five amendments that will be unitedly explained by a respected secretary of state, and then after that, we will have a debate of course only by the clubs if they are interested, please. Will you be enough for two minutes or more? Let's try it in two minutes. [[Intruder Katić: So I'll try to fit in.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145803	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The first amendment regulates the question, this article regulates the issue of acquisition of Croatian citizenship by origin, so according to parents, it is already possible in the final proposal of the law that persons, after turning 18 by their 21st year of age, can be registered in the register of Croatian citizens, and the amendment extends this right for persons over the age of 21. It means all persons born after the entry of the Law on Croatian Citizenship after '91. will be able to apply for enrolment in the register of Croatian citizens but the deadline will open for two years. So, the person older in '98. the year and older will be able to submit a request but within the next two years. In this way, the amendment submitted by the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is recognised in a certain way. The second amendment of the Government is also in some way the implementation of the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which extends the circle of persons considered as emigrants, so it would not only be persons who moved out of the territory of today's Republic of Croatia but also other areas in which the Croats lived, and who were also in the territory of today's Republic of Croatia at the time of that person's eviction. The third amendment concerns changes and alignment with the Law on the State Administration System with which a series of laws have been harmonised, as well as this. This is Article 24(2), and from now on, businesses will keep records of Croatian citizenship, instead of the Office of State Administration, of the county or City of Zagreb. The fourth amendment concerns the transitional provisions of the law. The amendments submitted by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, SDSS and the conclusion of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia are also respected that persons born between 1977 and 1991 from parents who had Croatian citizenship and under the law which was in force at the time could only be entered into Croatian citizenship, but for some reason it was not registered for a mistake or any other reason, allow those persons to also apply within two years of the entry into force of the law, to apply for enrolment in Croatian citizenship. And the fifth amendment concerns the final provision of entry into force of this law proposed on 1 January 2020, that is because the provision already passed in the final draft of the law. We proposed on 1 October 2019, and for another reason to comply with the Law on the System of State Administration, which places the jobs and records of citizenship to the competent counties and the City of Zagreb. That would be the shortest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145804	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendments. Since no one is answering, I am closing the debate and we are going to vote on the first amendment of the government. Please, let's vote. 78 votes 7a, 33 abstentions, and the amendment becomes an integral part of the final bill. We're going to the Second Amendment of the Government. Let's vote. 96 votes 7a, 3 abstentions and 2nd amendment becomes an integral part of the final draft law. We're going to number three of the government's amendments. 99 for unanimous. And the 3rd amendment becomes an integral part of the final bill. We're going to the Fourth Amendment of the Government. Unanimity 101 for and 4th Amendment becomes an integral part of the final draft law. And the 5th amendment of the government. Please, let's vote. 99 for, 1 abstention and 5 amendment becomes an integral part of the final bill. We now move to a decision on the amendments submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club, the SDSS Representatives' Club, the Croatians' Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, the SDP Representatives' Club. The review of the amendments has been submitted by electronic means, and we have conducted the statement earlier in the session, and we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. 1. The amendment of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia has been withdrawn, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia has also proposed the 2nd amendment, has also been withdrawn. 3. Amendment to the SDP Representatives' Club, the government does not accept, and we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number four of the same club, the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking you to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 5th Amendment of the SDSS Representatives Club has been withdrawn. The 6th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP has been withdrawn, then there is no need to vote. So we're going to the 7th that the government doesn't accept about him we're going to vote on. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. No. 9 The SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, so we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 10 of the same club representatives has been withdrawn. Thank you. And we're going to the last 11 Club of Representatives of the SDSS and he's been withdrawn so I don't have to vote on him either. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship. Please, let's vote. I find most of the votes 88 for, 24 abstentions, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145805	We move to the next item of the agenda, the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Police, second reading, P.Z. No. 573. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would like Mr. Zarko Katic, the representative of the motionary of the State Secretary of the Ministry of State, to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal for the law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam MPs, gentlemen. In short, I will present to you the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. But first of all, let me say a few words about the police as a service in the MUP whose work has been regulated by several regulations, first of all this Law on the Police which mainly regulates the organisation, organisation and working relations and some other issues of police action and the Law on police affairs and powers which has also been recently before you and which regulates the way in which jobs and the way in which powers are exercised, the very important powers that police officers have in doing their jobs. In total, 25439 seats of police officers have been systematised in the MUP and 78.1% of them have been filled in in in 19867, so 78.1% are filled in by police officers. Of that, 16189 men and 3678 women. The number of women has been growing steadily in the police, but the goal is to increase the number and thus draws closer to at least the total number of male and female populations in the Republic of Croatia. Right now, yes, police, of course, given the great service and the relatively constant natural drain. We have to make sure there are enough trained and professional police officers from the police, and it is done when we talk about the SSS for the occupation of a police officer or a police officer at Josip Jovic Police School, so police officers are continuously educated and there are currently 743 students who are at the end of this school and their example in the service is expected around 1 August of this year. Of course, as I said, there is a certain natural outflow, last year the police service left 845 police officers, and this year, a total of 427, most of it goes into retirement, and a few smaller parts of the contractual termination or resignation by the police officer himself, and unfortunately, we also have certain cases of death, as well as the termination of service by force of the law, if there is a serious violation of official duty, these are, however, a relatively small number of cases. As far as the law itself is concerned, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act provides for an amendment to the provision which prescribed the obligation to submit a report on the conduct of police affairs under which the Minister of the Interior is obliged to submit a written report to the HS at least once a year on the conduct of police affairs. This provision is proposed to be amended in a way that, by 31 March at the latest, the Director-General of Police shall submit a written report on the work of the police to the Minister, and which then submits this report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the latest, and the Government shall submit this report to the HS by 1 June at the latest. We believe that, in a proposed way, it would be more clear that a police work report that includes not only data on police operations but also other relevant data on police work would be submitted. In addition, this article provides for the Minister of the Interior to provide a report on police affairs and on individual cases at the request of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. This proposal provides for amending and supplementing the provisions of the applicable law which prescribe the lodging of a complaint in the event where a natural person considers that by acting or failing to act by a police officer in the application of police powers, he or she is injure certain rights or freedoms. Under the current law, the establishment of a Committee for Labour under complaints for, at the head office of the ministry and one commission at a time in each police administration is envisaged. So a total of 21 commissions were scheduled. Since not even after the publication of 2 public calls have been submitted enough candidates to form these committees and they have not been established under the applicable provisions, it is proposed to set up a committee with 9 members of the public who would appoint and resolve HS on a proposal from the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, which would be proposed by civil society organisations, professional public organisations and NGOs, or would personally report to a public call. In the period from 2013-2018 55, I apologize, 555 objections to the work of police officers who could not be resolved and we believe that the aim will also be to resolve these cases if, of course, the complainants remain with them. As a newspaper, a cash compensation is prescribed for members of the commission of 5% of the average net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in the past year. In view of the fact that the total annual cost, according to this data, would be around 15 thousand kuna, I believe that the funds can be provided from regular funds provided for in the work of the MUP, so there is no need to provide additional resources. Furthermore, under the current Police Law, the chief police director and his deputies and assistants, police chiefs and police station chiefs are named for a period of 5 years. This bill envisions and suggests leaving out of a circle of people named for a period of 5 years by police station chiefs. Namely, this place is classified in the category of jobs of police officers, but in the subcategory of managers. In the classification of jobs of police officers, many places are classified as leading jobs and are in the category of higher subcategories, i.e. senior executive. Therefore, the proposer is considered not to have the need to name the post chiefs of police stations in those places for a period of 5 years and the proposal is to leave them out. The following papers refer to the additions to the provisions laying down the reasons for the resolution of the deputy and assistant chief of police and police chiefs before the deadline for appointment. As an additional reason for the resolution of those persons before the end of the term of office, it is proposed to introduce, therefore, the assessment is satisfactory. Such an assessment, which is below the expected and professional level, is considered to be the reason for the resolution of these persons before the expiry of the period to which they are appointed. The provisions governing the transfer of police officers shall also be amended where necessary. According to the final proposal of the Law, more specifically, the transfer of a police officer, where necessary, to the job of a job of the same or more complexity, as well as the transfer of a police officer, if necessary, to a job in a job under the complexity of a job. In the case of the transfer of police officers, it has been observed that a valid provision requiring that a police officer may be moved to a place of employment, in the context of the acquired degree of education and personal police service, to a considerable extent, preventing the transfer of police officers, as a police officer may be moved to the workplace of his personal calling, and such places in, such vacancys do not always exist. It has been shown that a police officer cannot be moved to a job for which a lower police calling is prescribed than his personal calling, even when it requires the needs of the service. The institute cannot be applied without the written consent of a police officer, thus limiting the service's needs by means of the will of a police officer given in the form of written consent. An important law stipulates that the vacancy of senior police officers other than the jobs of deputy and assistant chief of police and police administration chiefs is advertised through an internal ad and filled with a transfer or schedule. Therefore, the final draft of the law makes it difficult to comment in practice to amend this provision and proposes that, through an internal ad, the work of leading police officers of the subcategory be filled with the work of the Deputy and Assistant Chief Director of Police and Police Administration. This proposal or the Final Proposal also introduces compensation for the housing of police officers. The right to this fee would be given to a police officer deployed at a place of work that is more than 100 km away from his place of residence, who has no settled housing issue and does not receive compensation for the costs of inter-urban transportation. Similarly, this right would be given to police officers whose place of work is on the island, and the place of residence on land or on another island or vice versa. Namely, you know that in certain police administrations, primarily Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Istria, Lika-Senjska is the unsatisfactory filling of police officers' jobs to the domestic population. So, due to the poorer population, therefore, the insufficient number of young people capable of this service or because there are other better paid jobs, and therefore the students of the profession of a police officer or a police officer after completing the course on the basis of a 5-year contract. He's deploying to other police departments, so, most of all, the ones I just mentioned. Given insufficient incomes, lack of accommodation capacity either official, but even private ones, of course, especially during the tourist season, it is extremely difficult for police officers to organise and settle accommodation obligations. All of this, as well as separation from family and place of residence, are also important reasons why police officers insist on moving after the term of the contract. Therefore, in order to retain at least part of police officers in the police administrations in which they were deployed, as well as to encourage motivation to enter and stay in the police service, it is proposed to introduce this fee. I also talked about differences in this part of the law, but therefore, the most important differences between the bill and the final proposal of the law are listed in Article. 4. to which the Art. 4 is changed. 5c. and, therefore, concerns the appointment of the Board of Appeals to the work of police officers. On the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of Certain Clubs and Representatives and Representatives who participated in the debate, the Board of Appeals, in this final proposal, consists of 9 representatives of citizens without the representatives of the MUP, as provided for in the draft law. The MUP will provide professional and administrative assistance to the Commission in order to do its tasks as best as possible. The final draft of the law also provides for the Commission to edit its work more closely with its previous opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and, accordingly, it has been amended and amended. 6. where it said earlier that the Minister of Internal Affairs would prescribe a way of working and acting on complaints of keeping records and data storage deadlines, given that this is now resolved in a different way or through the rules of procedure, it will be resolved by the Rules of Procedure of the Commission. There is one change I want, a change in the final bill I want to make, which was not, which is not the fruit of the debate in this house, and as far as it is concerned, it is now mentioned in Article. 25 which is actually a supplemental article. 96. The law on police, which otherwise provides for serious violations of official duties that police officers can commit, and so in this final proposal of the law as a new serious violation of official duty, domestic violence is prescribed. So, with already prescribed reasons, as a reason for the obligatory distance of a police officer, there are also cases where a criminal offence for domestic violence has been brought against a police officer, we believe that persons who carry out such a responsible and important task that they cannot continue the work if criminal charges for such a criminal offence have been filed against them. These are the basic amendments proposed by the final draft of the law, I hope that, with your cooperation and the proposals that you will make, we will bring forward a quality law on police that will be a good basis for even more successful work by the Croatian police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145807	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the explanation of the bill. We have replicas. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Katic, well, I'm sorry you didn't give up some of the things in this law between the two readings. In my first reading, therefore, the material position of Croatian police officers today is extremely bad, they work in extremely bad and difficult conditions, they have too little to pay for the work they do and therefore leave the service. You said there was a natural effusion there, that the smaller part of those who leave alone. The growing number is of police officers, who are not leaving the service but leaving the country, which is due to poor working conditions and low wages in which they work. So, a police officer who's just started working in the service with all the accessories can get up to 5,000 kuna wages. Some with long-term internships can't transfer six and a half thousand. These are conditions that need to be changed, these people need to be relieved of work and should be adequately paid, and instead, your answer is to lower the criteria for entering the service. So now you're lowering the level of professional training that you can get into the service, and that's how you fill in jobs, instead of improving the material status of police officers. Here's what I'm unhappy with.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145809	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. The answer, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145810	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I can agree that the conditions of police work, primarily the salary should be higher, therefore, better working conditions. It is the task of all of us to give it to a very responsible business of extra dignity and to try to raise wages. This has been done in this term for those police officers who have the lowest wages, but it needs to be continued to work and this is the goal of this government and I believe every other Croatian government. As for these, the conditions for entering the service, I think they are still very well set up, that they are still relatively strict, and they should also be three years of schooling absolutely do not need to be underestimated. Now there is an increasing need for people who have craftsmanship, some three-year professions, so they are no less quality, and they have to pass the same checks as those who have four years of schooling.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145811	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145812	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, two, thank you for these accepted suggestions, but two of my first reading proposals are not the same. First, it's about the Board of Appeals. I don't understand how you calculated 15 thousand kunas to be enough, that's enough for four objects. And if we say it's going to be a net of 5% salary, it's 350 kuna cca, whether it's gross or net in the law doesn't say, I guess you meant net, then that means 600 kn gross. Then it'll be for less than that. If there are nine of them, so count yourself that they need, I don't know how many for one item they need 5 thousand kunas to complete the case, so all 9... All right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't think we're gonna get enough people here. I don't know who's going to report on the terms, but we'll see through the debate who's going to come forward, except for those who are probably professionally oriented to do it, or that's what they're doing. And this, I can agree that I can't continue to support this reduction of conditions, that that's not the solution, but more in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145813	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145814	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, the Law on the Police is a very important law so I expected the minister to come, to appear, regardless of what points out that there will be a report of this law,... A report to this Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it was minimally polite that there was no Home Secretary in the first or second reading. There's nothing to hide from the MPs, but the problem is the basic, the key, the man in the police. I'm interested in how many people are leaving, mainly from these areas, the Dubrovnik-Neretva County that come from other places of residence, what are the number of people because the material status of these people is catastrophic. Regardless of this little shift, he's a disaster. We have to put a man in the center, without a cop satisfied, someone can't stand on the road and do heavy work for a few thousand kunas and we all have to figure it out. All those changes, if we don't keep a man, a cop, there's no... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145815	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145816	Your Honor, Secretary of State, my question when you were talking about Art. 4, file a report, if you can answer me. Whoever submitted this report to the Parliament on police work. Is that the minister, is it the Chief Director of Police or a representative of the Government and will it be at a plenary session or on some committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145817	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145818	So, Mr. MP, it is therefore foreseen that the report sent by the Chief Director to the Minister and the Government to be referred by the Government by 1 May to the Croatian Parliament. The government will determine, in accordance with the rules on its work in the Government, who will be the representative who will defend this report and the president of the Croatian Parliament, or the Presidency, depending on whether he will attend a plenary session or a committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145819	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145820	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. The MUP and therefore police officers are the mirror of every country. Unfortunately, today we see that the honorable but underpaid interest of young people is losing interest. Right here we have to work to improve the working conditions in order, of course, to bring these young people back to their interest in this honorable occupation, but for many years there has been a problem of staffing police administrations in the Adriatic, we fill it with staff from Slavonia and my Posavina County. Of course, this traineeship salary is not enough for their home, so I welcome that we have been defined in the proposal for this law that police officers deployed to work more than 100km away have the right to compensation for housing. And we see that this height will be arranged by the Minister's decision and I hope that it will be kept in mind that this fee is sufficient for those who go to work in Dubrovnik and for the price of accommodation in Dubrovnik and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145821	Thank you, colleagues. I'd like you to be careful on time. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145822	This fee is what is now possible. It probably won't be enough in some environments, but it'll certainly help police officers. In addition to salaries that are certainly very important for police officers and family members, the equipment of the police, above all, that they have quality equipment with which they work quality uniforms, shoes, etc., in this sense a lot of work is done to enable as high quality, better conditions for the work of police officers. In addition, at the time it was necessary to obtain the other equipment needed for the work of police officers primarily in the light of the migration crisis and the increased efforts that Croatian police have on the Croatian border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145823	Thank you, dear colleague Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145824	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you have pointed out the difficulties associated with the work of the Board of Appeals and it is good that you have found a way and measure with the appointment of these 9 representatives where it is here and accepted to act without police officers with suport, therefore the police. However, in the process of proposing members of this committee, it was proposed to include the profession in the light of whether it was the retired police officers, officials or lawyers or criminals, we see that it was not seen and that as representatives of the promoters you had pointed out and positively assessed it, and it might be good to consider here and to facilitate the work of the commission if they had such a profile of people involved in the work of these committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145825	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145826	Thank you, fellow Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. Although police have experienced the degradation of the profession on two occasions, i.e. at the time of Racan and Milanovic's government, the Central Police School has been abolished and we know that the Central Police School has outsourced the best personnel. So when you decide to make that call in high school, it's a career call and you see your career as a cop for the rest of your life. Nevertheless, I believe that the police are doing their job well and this tells us that although a tender has been launched that every police administration has its own commission to act on the citizens' performances, that not enough citizens have reported that these commissions are being filled so that there will be only one thing at the state level in the future. So when something works, public attention is far less focused on that part of the part where things don't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145827	Thank you. The next replica of the respected colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145828	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. For the sake of the public interest, one doubt should be made clear, which means this evaluation of the directors, deputies and commissioners. If said to satisfy and to do so can be removed before the term of office expires. If we say this law meets, then we say the law is good. And if we say that a police officer, chief, the chief of police is satisfying, then he's no good. So either Semantics is wrong or it's wrong, and I guess it's going to be further regulated by a sublegal act because I don't see any other logic, I think it needs to be further clarified so that there's no legal and Semantic conflict.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145829	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145830	Thank you very much. One of the key issues of these laws is the adoption of police officers and I think the law should have stated that the salaries of police officers would be determined by a special law. And now I'm going to try to explain why. I think it's high time to pass the bill on payment classes and that police officers get paid for work they do and not for formality. Unfortunately, this is happening in the police today and not only in the police, there are other services, but I think it's particularly expressed in the police department and that this would be the first step towards rewarding work, loyalty to work, pawnage and then their actions will be quite different. However, when we have an uranalwolf that everyone gets equal pay, which is unfortunately if a new wage law is not passed, we simply don't stimulate these people, we don't stimulate them to work and not stimulate citizens to experience and look at them quite differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145831	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Prof. Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145832	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, we have a second reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. At first, it should be said that from the first to the second reading, the Proposer adopted a series of proposals and remarks that were made or proposed during the first reading, so that I would actually stick to some points. Something has already been said, but let me repeat in this previous debate or previous issues. From, in the amendments to this article concerning the obligations to submit police reports to the Croatian Parliament, the dates are defined until the Director of Police has to submit a report to the Minister and Minister to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but remains unclear who will defend the report in the Croatian Parliament or explain the report in the Croatian Parliament of the Minister of Interior or the Chief Director of Police. The Union is a provision that we welcome that the Minister of the Committee on Interior and National Security of the Croatian Parliament delivers a written report on its request in the conduct of police affairs for individual affairs. However, there is actually another issue being raised here which we have asked today on the board, which is that we must start from the fact that in the ministry's composition, what was once called the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, that the fire department of Croatia works, that civil protection works, and that is all in the Ministry, and that is not meant to be part of the police work report because it simply doesn't belong to it, and it's not organisational. However, if we look from the point of view of security, from the point of view of the concept of homeland security then it is one gap that the applicant should at least explain and tell where, when, how it will be submitted to the Croatian Assembly. It is not disputed that this is partly submitted to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, but I think we should go to get a full report on the state of security that would include this police work report. On the other hand, the law provides for the establishment of a commission to work after complaints on the work of police officers in a new way. It is known, as has already been said, that 21 such committees have previously been envisaged by the existing law, but that no one has appeared simply because it was not intended to approve the work of these committees. It is now adopted that the commission has only 9 members, that without those two representatives of the MUP, which is fine and that these 9 members would be elected by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. However, here we have one in some way indeterminateness, one contradiction which the offeror honestly did not foresee, and we did not warn the board, which is said in this bill, that the members of this committee are subject to a security check, but the members say no, potential members but members, and that means when they are already elected. In that case, we can imagine the situation that they will be theoretically that one of these members will not pass the security check and then the whole process is repeated, and this candidate publicly from this or that way may feel discredited. There is a provision which has also been also warned, it has been modified in this second proposal that candidates proposed by civil society organisations, professional public organisations, NGOs or individuals can apply on the basis of a public tender. We have here suggested that it may be professional organisations, that they may be associations of retired police officers or veterans, not frankly, I do not understand why it is not so taxed. On the other hand, I think from this experience, if we were unable to form 21 committees that we could draw a few conclusions. First, we need a commission to monitor the work of police officers to protect citizens' interests against possible police irregularities. Second, to protect the interests and police officers against possible violations of their rights within the system. Third, that the need for the establishment of this commission is not primarily politically motivated, but the need is given on the basis of the requirements for expert supervision of the system, any threats within the system. So we can ask one question on the one hand how to include the profession in a much bigger way, and I have already said that it should be taxing that it should be professional associations of police officers and other professional public but we can also ask why this composition of this commission is being implemented, why this composition proposes by the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament and not by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, because the procedure for selecting members of the Civil Surveillance Council is carried out by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, if you want it to be even more delicate than the Commission for the work of the police. I therefore think that this should also be taken into account in future amendments to this law, I would suggest that this procedure be left to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. There were a lot of words and now during this debate and already that the cash compensation for members of the commission of 5% net salary should be for these members, however this may not be what I am about to say now only the problem of this law but simply the harmonisation of the standards and practices of the Croatian Parliament that this and similar commissions are honored in the same way when it comes to a similar or the same volume of work. So it is something that should be proposed at the government level to the Croatian Parliament and then the Croatian Parliament should adopt it and simply apply the same criteria to all committees. What should also be welcomed is the change of this item to introduce housing fees for police officers deployed to jobs more than 100 km away from their place of residence, or those working on an island or living on an island and working on land or vice versa, the proposal was originally that this fee is 1000 kn, it is now amended that the minister will determine what I think is logical, given that the absences of directors in certain counties are different or that their price of accommodation is different from Lika County or Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, etc., so that it should be welcomed. It has already been said here whether to accept this completed high school for the admission of employees to the police, I think it should be taken into account on the one hand that this is an emergency that will be faced not only by the police but also by other state institutions simply because of what we must be aware of and these are labour shortages. However, there is something else to understand which is that certain countries have had this experience for years and have not been testing knowledge, not taking the grades of their candidates for individual services of knowledge, but the ability to learn and acquire new knowledge and that is crucial. And then there's this logic that can be perfected, trained, etc. I can get better quality employees. Unfortunately, it was not adopted that paragraph 7 of the same article, which states that these employees should not, police officers should not be members of the political party, I think that this should be resolved in another way, should be resolved by law at all on officials and employees who would normally go that party activity is not allowed, activity within ministries, not by defending people to be members of this party or that party. These changes in Articles 86 and 88 concerning higher education should also be welcomed, simply because these articles are now more appropriate, clearer where it is said that the ministry prescribes needs, Ministry of Science and Education, Standards, etc. However, it seems to me that here too there is a certain uncertainty, uncertainty or lack of long-term planning because it is still expected that the high police school will be providing all the necessary knowledge for police action, I think that this practice should be left simply because the situation will change faster and faster every year, we are aware of this, all of us believe that part of these protection and security jobs will be increasingly taken over by private companies, that there will be more and more people who have finished, Croatian citizens who have finished out certain schools or acquired certain skills and competences in these jobs, and then there will be questions about the recognition of these diplomas, if it is not finished at the higher police school. On the other hand, no high school today was the public police or some other could give all the calls and knowledge that the police need today. Just take it, forensics is now a highly developed and famous science, but its application goes from criminal forensics, medical forensics, linguistic forensics, digital forensics. Therefore, a list of calls and knowledge needed to be opened here, and schooling to the various institutions, not only to one institution. Therefore, here should be the primary orientation in my opinion that already this draft on education shows that, is this high-level police school aimed at becoming a university institution, to become part of a university or to become part of this University of National Security and Defence Science that is being prepared and discussed when we are discussing the Homeland Security Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145833	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of SDP's Representatives Club, respected counterpart Ranko Ostojic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145834	Dear Vice President HS. Honorable state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Today in the Republic of Croatia, we have more than 25,000 systematiced jobs of police officers, 19 867 and 71% fill-up, but to compare it with, say, a small country of Norway, it has 8200 police officers, which actually tells us about the situation that we don't understand in the organization itself. The natural effusion is three years ago. It was about 500 people, we now hear that 845 police officers last year, to this day 427, are expected to be 900 at least to go to so-called. A retirement pension, and in fact it's true that nearly 8500 people meet the conditions for retirement in view of the status and training of the police, that people were actually waiting for provisions by which they could take the severance and leave the police department, that's what's true. Today we educate 743 police officers or officers, three years ago. It was 330, the reason is very simple, and that's actually that time with 10, well 8, so 6000 reported, today you can't even fill out a number that's actually meant for schooling. The truth is that Josip Jovic High School of Police has never been abolished, that the schooling that was previously done in the secondary police school of the boarding school itself has in some way made it impossible for people to get the additional information that might be needed and that it should be done in accordance with European standards and in a way that is four years of high school education, then 9 months of schooling the interest of a police officer or a police officer, then there goes a year of mentorship and only then goes a police officer on schedule. As far as High School is concerned, I have to say, here's what I can do and agree with Dr. As he spoke about the situation, adapting the conditions of today's security and challenges, and similar to what it was before, and on this basis was also done in high school, it is obvious that the general knowledge, broad culture and high police school is needed, is not the only one that gives staff at the Ministry of Police or the police, therefore, it is obvious that it is the correct approach, which is that the specialist part of the course is done in the police school itself, and that the rest is the knowledge that people receive from different universities and not only in high political school because cybercrime experts will certainly not find it at the High Police School, but in universities that build real staff. The question of the salary of police officers, today when we talk about it, I can agree with those remarks, it's that paying classes are a possible solution, but maybe there's a simpler variant, it's to go from so-called. a single coefficient of 1, and then to discuss the additions. Namely, a situation in which 0.8% or 0.85 little increase for police officers + an add-on to 1.2 + a supplement for the military or 1.4+ add-on to the judicial police only speaks about the relationship to the salaries of police officers and since it is a large system then no minister of finance can actually solve this problem without serious intervention and serious reform. As for the reserve police as one of the possible solutions I've long spoken, here I see that it's finally started working on it, so now former, retired police officers are under threat of being called to inform the MUP talks, to start working as border police officers. It was neither an intensity nor a solution, if necessary, I can show you these calls, in which way they look internally so-called. polls, calling for articles and an official hearing call form, call on police officers to join the reserve police. Why is reserve police one of the solutions? Because of the fact that then there is no need for compensation to go to the field, that these are people who know the terrain to receive 90% of the salary average within 3 months. How they work, the rest of them get 10% through the other months where they are not hired, they have to pass the course, and by doing so you actually strengthen that ability or people who can do much more to you on the ground and make up for that interest at this time, which unfortunately border police officers from the airport in Dubrovnik, Split, Pula, Rijeka or similar, are going to the ground in Donji Lapac because it is their only way to actually achieve a field supplement that is serious and measured in numbers as you know from last year's budget, 80 to 150 million kuna. So it is hypocritical to talk today about whether 15 000 kunas or 5% per case solved will be a solution to a commission in the same ministry that is actually ready to spend 80 to 150 million kunas on extras that go to police officers on regular salaries. As for the Home Secretary's report, which would be a miracle to me if he ever showed up here in the House, but I did ask Mr. Secretary of State if at least once a year when he submitted a report on police affairs and I was actually given an agreement to say that I was satisfied because it is clear to me that we will never again be able to, of course, be legally prescribed to have someone like the Minister of the Interior present a report on the conduct of police affairs. Not a single intensities that were actually sent and a message from this House is that the chief director of the police since we have the same situation with the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia who is a metric person to share an opinion with him and talk to him, to ask him a question and that he can answer these questions, of course that is not defined by these amendments and of course nothing will happen, we still got a worse solution, which is that the Government can send a representative whoever they want and that he will actually assume on one of the board that we will eventually hear a report on police affairs. If that were the case, it is clear from the next one, which is that there will be additional information not available to the chief police director. Namely, the ministry is so complex that it is not the chief police director who has all the other information that the interior minister has on staff, material and other affairs carried out by other state secretaries. For that reason, let's actually hear the suggestions from dr. Tudjman that we have a report from the state of security in the Republic of Croatia which would be very good but, of course, when we can't even get this report prescribed by law in Article 4 to experience here at the plenary session, then there's no way we're going to hear the power of other things that are related to the state of security in the Republic of Croatia that is in the MUP. As for the situation of human and human policy, we have to say that the degradation of the profession to 3 years is definitely, I explained earlier that the previous police school was also 4 years old and not the way it was actually proposed in this solution, what I think is true, and that is the opposite of all the rules, and now I will remind you of one thing, and that is that the Law on Police adopted in 2011 and which today is actually proposed to change thoroughly, brought together with the same EU that was then in the process and did not allow amendments to that law exactly what is now being proposed to change. There's no way that these temporary solutions are actually going through a situation where it's possible that you're working today to move any police officer without his consent in such a way that these temporary solutions become permanent solutions, it's known that it's a professional category that should be advanced, the suspension of competitions that have been solved is an absolute step back and for this reason I have to say that this is the destruction of political service as a career service and... European practice which we had and by moving to a lower ranking police officer regardless of his personal knowledge, that means he can be the chief police adviser on this as it says, means he does not respect the police calling system that loses every sense and contradiction with all EU strategies, guidelines and recommendations relating to police professionalisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard it is perfectly clear that this next provision relating to the evaluation is satisfying and colleagues, I can say what happens and that means when you are not satisfied with any person in the police system, you write satisfied and that flight from your post regardless of what he is elected to the term of office of 5 years. The intensity of the mandate was to know that he is secure in that position and that he will be able to do his job as a professional career officer but, of course, here and in this legal solution there will be nothing more. As for the rest of the story about the score, I think it's very important to say that the right to keep a police officer's salary will be as much brought to you as you do to the blind, to go to the lowest police place of your calling or not calling but to any police place but it remains your salary, only then will we strike in discrimination against all other civil servants who in that situation ask me the same question, will I, who do I have no idea somewhere in school, and then move me to a lower job somewhere, will I stay with the salary that I was on before that? Of course not. This variant where we introduce a new system of discrimination that makes the variant that you don't care at all where you work, you need to be satisfied with your salary, an additional devastation of the profession, in one ministry that is extremely important. What we have managed to do, and out of respect for the law, it is good that the previous debate accepted what the law says, and that is that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security has the right to request more frequently reports from the MUP, although the original urgency was to abolish this, to abolish the possibility of parliamentary oversight. So let's not even wonder what everyone here is, all the intensity actually made in a way to try what is less possible to reduce actually parliamentary or civilian surveillance over the work of police officers and this system that introduces so-called. payment by effect. That means how many plays they'll get paid. Otherwise, when the 21st commission was made, it was an attempt to cut transport costs, that every police administration in its field handles these surveillance and control tasks through those who have been paid. I'm just gonna say now, what doesn't work for us? We do not function in connecting the government sector and paying towards not government associations with their basic objectives that they need to achieve. That was the law's intensity. And that means that millions or hundreds of millions that are paid not to government associations that have, among other things, that component, which is to monitor the work of the repressive system and they won't work for free, but this is extra money. That's the difference between the approach that we have and I think we're going to have serious inflation, so the number of plays that are going to happen. Second, it actually leads to a solution in which you can only personally complain. It's something that's contrary again to the intensities that should exist in democratic practice. It's not just a situation of who he is, is it a child who can file a claim or a complaint? He can't. So all those less than 18 years old don't actually have business skills, they don't have the right to sue for police work. A mother can't say anything about a child, can't say anything about a father or anyone else. It's completely wrong. I guess the point is not to formally prevent complaints but to check what happened. Under this law now, we actually have a situation where the one who is the only one who allegedly is in violation of fundamental rights can't stand any other, any objection to police work. Even what you see happening won't work out. Secondly, it should be said that this is a secondary procedure, which means that only in the second degree what has been rejected in previous proceedings will be resolved on the very commission that has 9 members. What's positive about it is that let's still accept the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the fact that police officers who are controlled can not be members of the same committee, that's settled. And in my view, this situation that we have today as regards the amendments to the law is quite clear that this commission, that is, this amendment of the law, I hope is just the introduction to what you promised and that is the silence you have today, and that is that we have a serious change of law that we expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145835	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. As we are told here by the secretary of state, in the introduction and somehow in the reasons of the law, the emphasis has been placed on these amendments and the additions have been presented as if there were a new commission in focus, so one for those in the county, so one committee for complaints from the citizens elected by the Assembly. But from the very text, it actually comes out in many places that the main problem that we are facing is that our police who agree is very important one instrument because it is one of the two key instruments of the state monopoly on violence consisting of too many people with too little pay, with too little pay. And these too many underpaid people are therefore inefficient and all of these problems that have been discussed and are trying to address themselves in this law, i.e. in these changes and additions to a large extent, are, in fact, stemming from this fact that new people are recruited in comparison with other countries of similar size, a lot of people who are under-paid and therefore weak or ineffectively functioning by that institution. One of the things that is regulated by this law is to define and exercise the right to severance, which certainly makes sense, given that this institute is in place and should certainly be done. The second point that is addressed is the report on the work of the police, and indeed from these changes and additions it is not clear who will eventually be in this body, and that is the Croatian Parliament which de facto elected this Minister of the Interior, elected the Government, who is responsible for controlling and having insight into the functioning of this institution as well as everyone else, but here we are talking about the police, who will report to the Parliament what the police are doing or what she did last year. So the procedure has been defined, the chief director reports to the minister, the minister reports to the government. Now, someone from the government reports to the Parliament by 1.6 every current year. There, this should indeed be made more clear and unambiguously defined to make it clear that it is the interior minister who has been elected in this House and who has an obligation at least once a year to appear in the Assembly and to say what the main institution in its portfolio is doing. It is a minimum, not even for the very respect of the Parliament, but for the very respect of a civil institution standing between the executive authority and its natural tendencies as authority and citizens. And therefore, in this law it would be really important, especially for an institution whose main function is the state monopoly on violence. So it would be crucial for such an institution to unequivocally define that the minister is reporting to the parliament. The state of security in the Republic of Croatia deteriores, we have already repeatedly observed, we have also observed in our debate here in the Parliament. Deteriores for, when you add it all together, most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Violence against women is on the rise, femicide is on the rise, that's all the data shows, so the women's murders are on the rise. Violence against members of national minorities has been on the rise, violence against LGBT members has been on the rise, all of this has deterode over the past few years. I must remind you that in 2014, we received a Dutch award as the country that has made the most progress in promoting and protecting the rights of LGBT communities. It's a long dream. It has nothing to do with our reality anymore, and that's a matter of security. This is what the interior minister should come to the Parliament to talk about, to say what it is, why it comes from, from where it will be taken about this detecting or reverse state of security in the Republic of Croatia. We're coming to the working committee as it is said here, according to complaints, so to resolve complaints about the work of the police that are supposed to be paid here. That commission is certainly necessary. In particular, it is necessary and I do not know whether the Ombudsman for children was involved, especially how the minors will be able to complain or be able to react, if they feel in some way or have been in a situation where they have suffered violence or something they would like to complain about because, as the minors have been said, they are, and only a person over whom such an act has been committed can be addressed to the competent institutions. In law, therefore, it is certainly necessary to solve this problem. The next item is a more precise definition of the responsibilities of police officers, i.e. the tasks they perform, which I consider to be good and desirable, however, as in some earlier cases, too many things for such a specialised service, such as police, these are not civil servants in the sense in which civil servants are, say, administrative apparatus in institutions. These are civil servants for the state and are employed by the state, however, with very specific work, with very specific risks on the job, with very specific knowledge needed for this, this job and relying on it as this law is about too many elements to which this law calls for regulation to be defined in the Civil Service Act, I find inappropriate and somewhat dangerous. So, dangerous because the specialized profession is very special and very different from all other state services because it includes an element of violence is in some way equated with administrative civil servants who have a completely different function and a completely different type of responsibility, so if you want other instruments of work. The reasons for the resolution of the Deputy Chief Director and Chief of Police Administration are defined and are already mentioned several times that this assessment is satisfactory is considered to be a reason for the resolution, i.e. to actually be fired. It can be interpreted in one way or another, satisfactory can be interpreted as two, so if it gets 2, it's not good enough. In my opinion, that's not the main problem. The main problem is the introduction of arbitration. This case we've already had, this trend is very strong, this case we've already had in changing the Law on the Ombudsman for children where in such functions it's unusually important that the arbitrary political will of the authorities cannot replace the control instruments and cannot replace people at such functions before the end of the guaranteed mandate. These guaranteed mandates are not random, these guaranteed mandates are an instrument of balance between professionality and political elections and therefore there are mandates that necessarily do not match the mandates of individual governments and therefore there are guaranteed mandates to avoid arbitraryness. Of course, you can say, it can be about a man who really doesn't do his job well enough, it can be, of course, there's always that possibility, it's just a matter of some cost-efficient analysis, which are damage and what are the benefits. The damage is much greater when arbitration is introduced, therefore coincidence, arbitraryness as a principle than that, here and there, it really happens that someone who may not be good enough remains until the end of his term. So, by applying both, in any case, arbitration in these situations should be avoided because it de facto undermines the main function of the mandate, undermines the main function of such institutions, and that is that politics cannot clap them however it wishes. And if you're not willing because you're not on his side or because you're not personal to him, he can kick you out of the service. It's not only unfair, which is certainly but it's less of a problem here, the bigger problem is that it actually destroys that little autonomy, that little independence in doing these very important jobs. Further talk is also about improving or improving police education at a high level, it is certainly very good, however, as when we talked about military education and here it is inevitable that it will be in collaboration with universities or in collaboration with existing universities. People who are highly educated in this business certainly need psychology, certainly need sociology, surely need something from international relations at least to understand something, certainly need something from information, certainly need something from geopoliticals, so the mass of things that are handed over at universities and at individual universities, and in our country, frankly, it's hard at a high level given how few of us there are, to put together a university that has top-level people in certain professions, let alone in each individual university to come up with top psychology or top-notch intelligence or whatever it is we're talking about, whatever we're talking about here. It is therefore necessary to define this as being in collaboration with universities or individual universities. And finally, at least in my opinion about this law may most and most of all affect what is the basic problem and that is that these people are underpaid, there is a fee for housing for people who work 100 km from their place of residence, so where they have... The people, for us, for the MPs, for you who are outside of Zagreb is 50 km, so give the officers 50 km. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145837	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDSS on behalf of which will speak respected representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145838	I would like to thank the honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear fellow MPs and MPs. So the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, the second reading, we heard the most significant changes in relation to the first and briefly I will sum up my views and views of my club on this second amended reading, so again I point out that I believe that the control of police work is extremely important for the citizens but also for the police, because the only quality control can provide efficient and quality work, so good control practices are very important and standards are raised in police work, respect for the rule of law and human rights in police conduct, the public's confidence in police work is restored, the quality of the system of responsibility of police officers and effective legal remedies for those who are victims of illegality in police conduct. It is also important to achieve as much openness and understanding as possible and trust with the police by the citizens as possible, because we must agree that this trust is more or less in the last period and is thrown away. We welcome the introduction of a monetary fee, I think unrealistically of the commission, of course it is unrealistic to expect that someone today will invest their knowledge and their time, money for the honorary performance of the commission's duties, or be a member of the commission, which would therefore be more than optimistic to expect. The proposal has been accepted that a person with a completed three-year and four-year-old school can enter the police, and I personally think it is my club's position that this decision is not good because this change in the state service is joined by persons who have a three-year school programme, and it should be pointed out that most three-year-old schools are actually mainly professional with extremely small general content of teaching and increased practical work. It should be taken into account that such vocational schools are currently enrolled by students of a weaker average and who do not actually have any options, nor a great choice of professions, and certainly that the police system should take care of it today, or above all, of the reputation and quality of the staff to be received in the service in the future, which is precisely the case with a comprehensive reception in a certain sense. So, I agree with my predecessors and predecessors' statements that it is necessary to work on the quality of the system, or to increase wages, because it is the only way to make this system sustainable. By increasing wages, we will have a situation where people who are unhappy will not escape from this system, and yet with the admission of students with three years of vocational education actually by introducing them, by introducing them into the system when they become authorized persons and begin to work, when they see what the situation is, surely they will not retain them again, and here we come to a vicious circle whether they will stay in the system or not, so everything is certainly caused by this smaller, small and insufficient income. I would say a few words about the fact of being admitted to the police, so, in addition to stating the conditions that I will not speak of, we have this institute of dignity, or it is stated that it is not a worthy person who is legally convicted of a criminal offence committed by acts of kindness or dishonesty and an offence against public order and peace, I believe that it is certain that the existence of a powerful judicial verdict both criminal and criminal for acts of domestic violence should certainly be explicitly prescribed as an absolute obstacle to police entry, and that is precisely in this Police Act, in this way we would have another serious filter. I'm sorry that my suggestion, this suggestion is not, has not been considered, I mean, I repeat, that we would have one serious filter. Therefore, in this case, it should not be decided from case to case based on a sublegal act of violation because the offence in the area of domestic violence should by no means be circumvented or, at the time of admission to police service, it should not be less significant or qualified as less dangerous than public order and peace with characteristics of violence such as. fighting or fighting in a public place. What is certainly to be represented is a zero tolerance policy against violence, violence against women and domestic violence, which means that, apart from the fact that the perpetrator of domestic violence should be exposed to the strictest judicial sanctions, a clear social message on the absolute inadmissibility of any domestic violence, and in particular when it comes to officials or police officers who must have a special, special emotion on cases of violence, and of course they should not be violent, nor participants in that act. An important role, therefore, is played by police officers and officials who, through their work and conduct, need to represent positive examples, and it certainly excludes any judicial verdicts that would be convicted of criminal or other criminal offences, especially from the area of domestic violence, so I really welcome and consider it a very good addition. In 96, which prescribes a serious violation of official duty for police officers, so where the serious injury of official duty and domestic violence is, that is, what is a significant change and which should certainly be welcomed in view of the overall picture we currently have, which refers to violence against women. The last thing I want to absorb is the trend of reducing the share of employees of national minors in the MUP, this trend continues and we have a significant reduction, which is certainly what needs to be taken into account and what is now to 3.13 was now on 2.5 this reduction is also felt in the counties of my area and Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem, so I should naturally take care of the specific provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minors because it is obvious that sub-representation exists and I believe that on behalf of the SDSS Club I should present it and warn because we have repeatedly warned this fact. So we have before us a bill that will take special care, as I have already said about preventing domestic violence or preventing violence against women and children, and it is certainly one of the very important elements that this law has. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, we will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145839	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145840	I thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague, I will try to stick to the difference between the two, not the difference between the two readings, but the difference in what I stated in the first reading, and what was not accepted so that as I said briefly and in the opening part itself. Of course, we feel more or less that some good things have been done here, changed in particular, which is a large part of the things that we have discussed on the Committee on Internal Affairs and discussed accepted and regarding reporting of course. However, I would stick to these two concrete things and buy let's say both the times with certain amendments so that we might have a chance to change it and drop something. First, it's about the Board of Appeals. We had a situation where they were organized by county. That didn't work. The interest was nothing. Now it's a single body that's come on is no longer 10 plus 2 as it was the first proposal or how it originally went in the first reading as a proposal. Now it's nine. They are no longer automated by two members in front of the ministry, which we said was not exactly convenient to decide as a second-degree body someone who is an integral part of who is being elected. However, the issue of compensation remains. So this is Article 5, which states that they have a fee of 5% of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year for each completed case. Now, the motivation of the people who will enter and here I see that it has been laid down that a member of the Committee can not only be a person who is not a citizen and who is a member of a political party, who is convicted or prosecuted or abused by the mark of violence or for serious offences for which the sentence of prison is prescribed. More or less everyone else can. Who will be motivated to go? With 5% of the fee per completed case, so if today is our average salary as long as it may grow in the future, so let's see that in Zagreb it's 7 and a half thousand kuna so let tomorrow be 8, again 5% is 400 kuna. It doesn't say if it's 5% net or gross, so maybe it should change. Because according to what I read, this applies to the gross amount, and then it's at 200 kuna to 250 kuna depending on the average salary and other taxes. If it's net again it can be 350 kuna per finished case. Now we've heard here that there were 20 such reports, 26 let's say they were covered, let's say tomorrow it's the first means to be provided I don't know if it'll be enough. I believe they are. But I'm saying it as a motivation and a proven value for that honorable function. So the pay isn't just the thing we get to live through. In one hand, it also determines the value of the work you do, the responsibility you bear. So that's what we're talking about about people as important to society, employers, privates, whatever. Only the market regulates it, and here we have a chance as a state to have a situation that the outside members of this House have fixed fees. We have through a variety of similar bodies that are more or less founded by this House's decision and filled out by external associates, people and citizens. So that's really where it should go. It's an extra cost, but sometimes we also witness many times that neither democracy nor any liquids have their own price. They don't have that expense that can be shown if we care about it. This is what we say isn't for us. If we tell someone to be in the Committee and you get 5% of the average net salary, let's say net for each completed item, then it's not exactly how much we appreciate it and how important it is. And then who's gonna apply to us? We can be applied by former interior officials who are in the system and some who may be more involved in monitoring the work through civil society associations, and there may be a story done with their regular jobs. Yes, of course. So I'm not getting much information from this that it's important to us, but rather to do it forms for us. So I think that we should valorize it more and that my amendment will also be in that direction to kind of valorize it, of course in accordance with both the work and the time spent itself, but also the honor and the fact that it's worth something because we have to keep that in mind. We're not just paying compensation, we're saying how important it is to us and it's the same important thing. The second, perhaps, is more important to me than the article 47, which has changed, or Article 10 of these amendments, which actually speaks very briefly to open up the possibility of obtaining conditions with those who have a three - year - old school. In my opinion, I'm still gonna say it's not good because, as a condition for police entry, we can't lower the criteria. You have stated in your explanation that it will not happen what you would say to mean now this four-year-old school isn't exactly like that. Because if we cut by one year and everything stays the same, then who's crazy? If there's a program that works, it means you've been going to medical school for five years, so you can put in and 4 will be the same. Or we'll overload the young people, students. Watch out for the students. We're talking about potential students here. We can theoretically happen to us, and correct me if I'm wrong, we can have younger minors who have conditions for admission to police service. Is it possible for a younger adult to get into police service and become a police officer tomorrow? I don't know, I don't know if it means that someone can put the material in three years or really give us quality. If we're talking about quantity, we want to expand that more people can apply because we need more people. Because the average of five employees per thousand is that small or large? He says this is how the United States has one in a thousand, come on, come on, it's America, we won't go on, Germany has three, Ireland two and a half, Denmark's two officials on a thousand inhabitants, similar countries in size, how does it work?, I agree that we should invest in our employees, that it's an important item, and I agree there's been a lot of talk today about material rights to increase them, but then we raise quality if we give them more pay, better conditions of work, more equipment and everything they do in work, and maybe other legal interventions make it easier for them to work, so I don't know how much their scope of work is, or that they go into the field of petty crime, how much they do. If we were to legalise prostitution here, and marijuana, maybe we wouldn't have so much business scope for cops, or the need for so many cops, if, of course, it should still be controlled, away from that, any abuse, but generally we're going towards quality rather than quantity, because I think there are enough employees today, but we need to better organize, better organise, or pay them more, make them bigger, bigger and better conditions of work. I think that's the direction we should go, because this part of someone with a three-year-old school has equal terms, equal approach, equally verified completed education, equal pay and four-year-old. No, it can't, it doesn't make sense to me, and it sure as hell needs to be found some middle solution, maybe accept other additional education opportunities, so leave it for a three-year-old, even put it on two-year-olds for some who have already finished a certain part of high school, as it was the first two years you end up with a high school program, and then the other two end up with a police academy, has a four-year school, and they all get to the level of one quality educated and trained police officer. Then you might go to that variant, have two and four, but two that requires a minimum completion of one, a certain number of preschool points and so on. In my opinion, it might be a solution to open up the possibility that others should apply, but not exactly if someone at 15 goes to police school, and 16 or 18 years of age becomes a police officer, as a younger adult, a younger minor, a younger adult, we talk about one maturity to another, correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think that's a safe solution. So let's go with quality, let's go make, raise the wages, and see how many people are going to go to school and apply for that service, and go to the academy to sign up, if it's a basic salary not four and four and a half, but, six or seven, then it would be very much of an interest. Of course it's not up to you, it's not directly up to me, we'd all like to give it to our people who work as hard as you can, I'm aware of it, but we're talking about strategy, the goal, because we're going to be satisfied with this and we're going to get the number we need and we're not going to be forced to influence it in a way and with the pay to make it a more interesting job. And that's actually the key, I'm not going to point out the differences of this other one, I'm going to beg, I'm going to say I'm going to try to get more time to analyze it with the amendment that you can react and that in this way you change the amendment however, I'm going to accept whatever it takes to get as high-quality police officers as possible, that they're better equipped with the higher wages, and also the better and better quality members of the Committee that will have that motivation and that we're going to say, that you're worth 5% of the finished case, but maybe 15% of the net salary, and then another 5% of the completed subject that you know that your efforts are doing, to get one of that same better quality. Here, thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145841	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145842	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, dear assistant minister. Here is listening to the part and the majority of clubs that point to certain things that are not, they are not good at bringing these amendments to the Law, that is, this Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, it might be good for the assistant, at present, to talk, that the assistant and secretary may consider perhaps a third reading based on what the majority clubs are, ruling and perhaps that these things that are mentioned try to define and agree within the coalition itself. However, here I could say a few things on behalf of the MOST Club, very important, as I have said, dissatisfaction that in both readings, we do not have here a minister who is a key person, it is the most important law, the law on police, amendments and additions to this Act that brings some news. In these news reports is exactly the report of the Minister of Police, but we see that most parliamentary representatives have not yet, that is to say that you have not properly explained who is giving the Report in the Croatian Parliament, who will be the one who will be talking about the Report here, so it would be good to explain it once again, because the questions about the report that will go once a year are very important to explain, who, what and when. You know, we haven't gotten on these questions yet, the Board of Appeals which, and that's one newspaper, that was 21, now going on one, the Committee, the Committee this for complaints is very important and will be appointed by the Croatian Parliament, but the fact will again have too much influence on the majority that is at that moment in the Assembly. There should be thought if some law is passed two-thirds, that some committees, like in this case very important Board of Appeals of our citizens within the police, one control that is a pardon control within that Committee which is a control mechanism, that it would be good to consider also the way to vote, i.e. whether or not a model should be found because it will simply again be a too strong political body to appoint at that time most, insignificantly which. As far as the evaluation is concerned, i.e. The evaluations satisfy, I don't know, I'm not clear on the correct criteria, the assessment meets the meaning of leaving that police officer's place, which can be exclusively for political or some unwarranted reasons that are out of service. So that part should be defined by a special regulation that should be well defined because the simple person you want to get rid of can be given an assessment satisfactory at that time without violating official regulations, thus affecting that person and that person does not work in that place regardless of what can be quality. We must say that Croatian police are the beginner of the defence of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War, I, as a Croatian police officer at the time, have the obligation to say that the Croatian police need more, especially a man,... The police officer is the most important, so in the case, all stories mean only his means material rights, his equipment, his safety, and this way, as so far for several thousand kunas to do the jobs that the Croatian police are doing, insufficiently equipped and we see insufficiently equipped and underpaid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this fee for people who will work in Dubrovnik County, and come, for example, from Slavonia or from my Dalmatian Zagora or in Istria County, it is not enough, that for a few thousand kunas, it is a shift, but it is insufficient for these young boys for several thousand kunas from Slavonia will not work in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. And that's why we have a huge departure of people from the police who are quality cops, who would do their job if they were provided with their material status, which the police deserve minimally. It's a minimum, I repeat again. Croatian police are beginners, i.e. Croatian police were the first to stand up for the Republic of Croatia. And we must keep that in mind every time we talk about the Croatian police. Croatian police and Croatian soldiers are indivisible and Croatian police officers must invest as a man. The man. And not that for several thousand kunas he does the work on the road, simply insecure, he wants to have for himself, he is sent from one part of Croatia to the other end of Croatia, separated from the family, that the Croatian police officer does not deserve. A Croatian policeman doesn't deserve that. All these legal changes fall into the water unless budgets are directed towards man, especially those working on the ground. Those in charge of the first act of violence, when it comes to a car accident, when it comes to prevention and from this place all those cops who work for several thousand kunas have no right to do any other jobs because they're cops. They don't have any extra means, they're separated from the family. You should say one big thank you because being with such minor resources effectively, protecting the safety of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia is a big deal. It is therefore necessary to express gratitude, first of all to the Croatian police officer, and in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. within the MUP, and if the problem is financial nature, then say here, the problem is financial, the MUP doesn't have enough funds. Today when we have an immigrant crisis, when we have illegal border crossings, when we enter Marrakech, when we accept the Marrakech Agreement without, the police minister went, so I'm sorry he's not coming in front of the Parliament, Marrakech, so they have extra burdens on the police force. They have to do their job professionally. I will never separate, no matter what Croatian soldiers or police officers, because they serve and serve the people and they should have and be well paid. Because otherwise, we'll lose the police. So many colleagues from that time when I was in the very beginning of the Homeland War in the police are still saying they have conditions for retirement, but they are not released because there are not enough interested. These are the people who first stood in front of the Serbian tanks, the blockades of theirs, who were first ready to give their lives and from these police formed an army and these people, even from that time on, they can't retire without meeting the conditions because there are not enough people. So the problem is in the material status of the Croatian police officer, crucial. When we talk about violence, I'll do it again here, I see that it stands out, every violence should be condemned. Every violence. However, the Croatian state is not a state of violence. The Croatian state has... Cases and what kind of violence we should condemn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if someone were to impose all the time, on the target groups, either the cheerleader, or the majority people, anyone that we're violent. It's an absolute lie. And it's not easy to accept, here I was just listening, of course there should be national minorities proportionally represented by the police. Here, I'm sorry there's no colleague of Jack's. But the fact is that when I go to Vukovar, in that area that many people warn me who live there, that members of the SAO militia, the SAO-Ukraine police are still or were in the Croatian police system. What's it like for these people to look at these people? There is a need to see reconciliation, and what is it like to watch the enemy be in the Croatian police? So it's both very difficult here, and I think we need to find solutions in this area too. And in that area. Simply keep calling Croatia violent, I believe that controversial violence should be condemned, that a police officer with their status salaries that are minimally well doing his job according to the possibilities. But I'm afraid the quality of the police footage will leave because of the bribery. It's in everyone's interest, and especially to you, Assistant Minister, there was a secretary and I'm sorry he wasn't a minister, that the first and key in the middle of this law must be a cop, man. Without a man, all these laws weren't meant to be passed without his material status. That's why I saw a huge dissatisfaction, here's a little too huge. He said a few things, which if you can't arrange for the HNS, you and the SDSS coalition partner of the HDZ majority party have said certain remarks that you give this to a third reading and find models to increase the material status i.e. salaries, equipment for the people of the police, and mainly for those who go from one end of Croatia to other parts of Croatia. Because I'm afraid if we don't make such a turn of colleagues and fellow MPs that the Croatian police will go to the best staff and that the Croatian police will. Croatian police will be damaged, and therefore the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in areas where this uncertainty is growing, and this is mainly caused by the acceptance of the Marrakek compact without us here in the Croatian Parliament discussing it. The minister went down and that compact was accepted, and our neighbouring members of the country didn't. If we run out of good and quality police personnel, the threat of all of us will be much greater. So accept this message I'm sending on behalf of the Bridge Club that the officer has been forgotten. His material status has been forgotten, and these laws we mention here are worthless if we don't solve a police officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145843	Thank you very much. We are now going to an individual debate and will be the first to be respected representative Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145844	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear assistant minister, co-workers and colleagues. Here is a long discussion of the amendments and additions of the Police Act we heard through the first reading, therefore, and in this high home of suggestions, remarks, proposals, very constructive things and cannot be taken away from the impression here and on the expert committees that the proposer has noted most of these remarks and suggestions, that we have discussed for a long and wide period of time this law as well as the problems today and the situation in which the Croatian police, related to their material status, living conditions, lack of funds which is not the subject of this law. But speaking of which, it's a little ugly to listen to when we talk about the law from some colleagues who are declaring themselves better status and better material rights when during the budget we discuss the funds for the Ministry of the Interior then give amendments, cut funds, reduce, so I believe the public is watching and thinking about who's consistent, who isn't. And it is evident that this power towards the Croatian military and the police are taking a number of measures to improve the status of police officers. Anyway, let's go back to the law itself that's been improved in a lot of ways. So those provisions and shortcomings that we pointed out in the previous reading were returned. What is significant and what I would like to underline about filing complaints, therefore, where the possibility is defined and the possibility that both natural and legal persons, by missing out, can now react if they believe that their right has been violated and within 30 days of knowing about the injury, remains still partly unclear, undefined, what will also be with the statements of the Board of Work on the complaints that have arrived and which have not been resolved in the past. We have spent a lot of time discussing the work of this Committee, where the applicant has also observed the comments, suggestions here by the representatives so that they are accepted and suggestions that this commission be formed in one less than 9 citizens, where there will be no police officers. The provisions for the Committee to meet and make decisions in the Council of 3 members are hereby rejected, rather than fully. And it is practically incorporated into the provision that the Committee adopts a Rules of Procedure on its work in which it regulates the issue from its section and on which it gives its preliminary opinion to the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. It remains an open question of what is professor. Tudjman mentioned whether the Committee was in full or should also give consent to the Committee on National Security. The form of the Committee's preliminary opinion on the Rules of Procedure is to take over the Institute in relation to the Civilian Oversight Council for the Security Intelligence Agency where the Committee on National Security gives its consent and it is quite well resolved so that I believe that, on this principle, this Committee will also be organised. A provision related to the provision of professional administrative assistance to the Commission was also incorporated by the ministry. Individuals had problems with that. I believe that without professional help that it is difficult for a new body composed of external members to act, I think it is good and optimal. It is also accepted that the decision of the commission is not only delivered to the head of the body, but also to be delivered to the ministry, which includes the minister as the head so that he can assess each of these procedures. On the board this morning, we discussed the delivery of the annual report on work in the proposal is to be delivered to HS, I think it is too high a level and there is no need to discuss it in HS, in relation to the work of the committee, rather than to provide it to the home authority or only to the President of the Assembly. And all in all, therefore, related, there have been a lot of suggestions about the compensation that is determined for the work of council members and that will be defined by the regulation and, of course, we assume that the ministry will resolve this if it has a large number of performances and therefore raises the amount, so the question is now the budget funds of the ministry that have taken over the obligation to pay to the members of the compensation and I would not doubt it. It's one of the questions that's been discussed a lot in art. 3 of the final proposal is related to the transfer of police officers to a lower police calling than it has without its consent, however, the other provisions in this article have been specified and the applicant has quality-defined the institute and in a way that a person can be moved without the written consent of a police officer in a way that does not restrict the will of a police officer because they would have a problem in certain areas to ensure quality fulfillment. Well, similar to the army, so here's one question she had to leave behind. To welcome her in this final draft of the law, in Art. 21 and supplemental of the provisions of Art. In the 96th century, the weight of a violation of official duty is described as inappropriate conduct in the ministry and outside the service that severely damages the reputation of the ministry. In this way, it is avoided that all behaviours that do not make serious injuries to the reputation of the police should be sanctioned as serious injuries to official duty. This, in essence, results in the rationalisation of proceedings before disciplinary courts and St. 1 added a new point 11 to which it is prescribed that the serious violation of the official duty is domestic violence and that is certainly to be welcomed because this supplement achieves that any acts of violence in the family of a police officer are subject to disciplinary proceedings, so police officers should be in this regard a model and where there is therefore doubt that such an injury is done, so it is no longer just a discretionary decision of a competent manager but it is practically a procedure carried out under official duty and in that sense I believe it is good. All in all, this bill will certainly contribute to an important improvement in police work and resolve a number of dilemmas, and in this sense I call on everyone to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145845	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the Honorable Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145846	Thank you. A colleague, Škorić, in a debate so far, especially from the SDP benches, has been indicated that, therefore, the evaluation of the work on police officers, the head of the administration, the chief of police stations. That it leads to a possible shift, etc. However, I will here remind you and all those present to exactly the SDP government, i.e. The government of Prime Minister Milanovic, its start, when it comes to the police, began the shift of 2500 police officers, or every 7 police officers were then removed, and that direction they began staffing the police means without any grounds. However, here the law clearly states under what conditions, how and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145847	Dear Representative Škorić. All right. I usually appeal to it, we have a very large number of people reported, so without replicas, we're going to be one eight, half nine, if there's no replicas. If he doesn't give up. The next individual debate will be respected MPs Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145848	Thank you very much, Vice President. We'll keep that in mind and we'll speed up our individual debates. Here's what I'm gonna do first. Today, everything that was to be said was to be related to this final bill. And maybe just a few brief clarifications. When the question of supplementing the law is raised, one of the additions which, therefore, is the subject of this law, the evaluation or the contested Semantic provision satisfies or does not satisfy it, is not set up in a negative context but is set in the sense that it is an interested profession, and above all, the person subject to that assessment should be further explained and we assume that this will be settled by means of a sublegal act and what should certainly be borne in mind, that any evaluation may be subject to a subjective impression and should certainly be prevented in any way. And we know what the ways are when it comes to evaluating public officials. So we mean that it will be an evaluation by some similar principle as it is in systematic public administrations or state administrations, or perhaps by that same principle. That's what's not visible here, but we've urged it to be visible in those in whom it should be for those who will be evaluated. This is primarily a question raised for the sake of this kind of public interest. A colleague, Škorić and all predecessors have counted what is positive in this law and should not be excessively prolonged. What's important to say is why we don't see this transfer of police officers unlike our opposition colleagues as negative, but on the contrary, we see it as positive. We see as positive for a few reasons. One reason is, above all, practical needs, and it is surprising that the opposition colleagues do not see or want to see it. So, what's important is that no police officer can be transferred without his own consent and written consent. And there's also an easy circumstance to keep his salary. Thus, it is not any degradation as it could have been misread, but rather the opposite. So at this point, we're facing each other, so I dare say with almost the greatest need for police officers, and when we talk about it, we're not just talking about border cops and land border, we're talking about general. Therefore, at this point, to disobey such a need and not react, it would be unserious by the Ministry of the Interior and would be somewhat unprofessional and it would be to say perhaps even harmful to national security. Therefore, not that it is necessary to make these changes in the law, but they are indeed 5 to 12. If we take into account all these things that are happening and are current, we take into account the geopolitical situation of 350km of land border, the pressures towards the sea border, so on all sides, the police are now exposed to such great demands that I dare say long before those 90s were seen when they were officers and when there was an attack on Croatian sovereignty and the same national security. And we have to be aware today that if we don't make these amendments to the law, including those changes that were accepted today by the government, which are the police powers of amending the law, so the final bill that just passed today in the Government and those that we have previously changed, we will be faced with a certain kind of crisis. To prevent this, these amendments to the law are needed because the police need to be tempered, police need to bring to the level of demand at which it should actually be. Because these scenes we are looking at in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina with a direct proximity to the Croatian border and the scene will not be possible to look at in Croatia and should be clearly and loudly and take another opportunity here to send a calming message to the public, one discreet and staunch message that these scenes despite all civil associations, associations that are both unobstructed and which are wider and panic, and incorrect information and individual incidents declare some general chaos should once again be clearly and responsibly said that these scenes will not be seen in Croatia. And we're actually not even aware of what would happen if the police didn't consciously do their job? Well, that would be exactly the scene. So, as long as the police are responsible for doing their job, we're looking for some individual incidents and we're declaring them some kind of chaos. And if the police hadn't done their job, then the Croatian public would have seen what that means. And that would mean, according to analysts' estimates, the entry of 100 to 500 illegal migrants during the night. Then we'd have a situation that 20% of the native population in the border border border are actually illegal migrants. Therefore, this one intermeco is only in order to illustrate the need to adopt this and any subsequent law that will be in order to strengthen and improve the systematic work of police officers. And I think that this law is indeed also political, and also professionally going in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145849	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Sasa Djujic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The next one was to be an individual debate of the respected representative Josip Djakic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. So the next individual debate was registered by the esteemed representative Ljubica Maksimchuk. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. So he reported for an individual debate and respected representative Ranko Ostojic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. So he answered for an individual debate and a respected representative, Stjepan Curaj. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The following reported the individual debate by a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The individual debate was also attended by a respected representative, Ivan Pernar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. But fortunately here is the esteemed representative of Steve Culey, so he'll discuss it. Here you go. And I'm correcting mine, obviously we'll be done a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145850	No giving up, no surrender. 5.8.1990, by forming the First Croatian Director, we created the foundation of future Croatian police and armed forces. When we think of only our Raven Tomljenović, who has proven from the Croatian police from the First Croatian directors, when we remember all other heroes we cannot and can not be proud of them and everything they have done for Croatia, for the Croatian police and for the Croatian army. Whenever we talk about the Croatian police, we talk about praises, we praise their work, their sacrifice, their commitment to security, stability and all the best. However, when we look out today at 33 in the cold, when we know that Croatian police officers are guarding the border in deep boots, in equipment that is as suitable for these temperatures as I am not convinced, because I know that they must be dressed as beekeepers in view of the terrain they are moving on and on those tasks that they are doing, when I know they are facing heavy tasks that I believe are adequately prepared, that they do not go through what we did in the '90s, when even those who commanded us were not even able to be prepared for what we were expected, when we know that Croatian police officer has to carry out his assignment with honor, honestly, responsible and that he is rewarded for that,... is suitable for less than a cook, less than a waiter or any other trade which is carried out with less responsibility, even under climate-based conditions, and other benefits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian police officer, he must be prepared to attack him, to insult him, to call him, to fear all those threats that a normal citizen does not even notice, he must be careful even if he stops a random drunk politician from calling him and telling him not to write or that politician will call someone a secret number and the policeman will have to withdraw, as many in history. We know that this same cop has to be alert to make no mistake in not calling him a domestic bully by accident, if he's reported by someone with an evil intention. If he is reported by anyone, he must well describe in the note what happened to justify his actions. Here, the distinguished lady spoke of it, about the officers who must be the most honorable in Croatian society, forgetting that in time, especially at the time of Racan's government, we had a minister who gave Croatian police officers, and in particular to reserve staff specialists, and these were police officers with the task more, gave three thousand cancellations. Where did those cops find themselves after those layoffs? I know some who are not employed today, in hospitals, asylums, birts and other institutions that do not approach at all, do not respond to those who have once acted honorably in the past, many have committed suicide. The ministers changed, each brought with him, and took away what was right, and what was not. Rarely, they are like Minister Vekic and some others, who have left a mark in history. How do you consider a police officer who is called honest, honest, loyal, cultural, conscientious, if at the same time three thousand police officers get fired, and at their workplaces, there are those who are abolized, police officers so-called SAO Krajina who did not when they entered the Croatian police report on what they witnessed in the years of war, did they see anything inappropriate, were they as police officers from Borov village who were under the command of Radenka Alavana, did they notice that 83 non-Serbs were killed there, did these Croatian police officers who were working with my comrades in Vukovar have submitted the report they saw, heard what they were witnessing? No, they're not. When they were abolized, there was amnesia for all the things they owed as cops knowingly to contribute to their biography. It is not valid for them, and our officers have to hide in Vukovar when Savados Pajcic is trampled in front of their eyes, causing him severe bodily injuries, which may and may not be the cause of his death, and it was all the fault of the rakija of a respected minister who is not here. It was the brandy, yeah, it was the brandy and the missing video from the camera in front of the police administration, yeah, it was the brandy again. It's the brandy and the split swastika. It's the brandy. The rakija was also for Dolački, for gold, EUR, dollars and other banknotes, it's the brandy. It was the brandy for St. Mark's Church, and it was the brandy. It was the rakia's fault that the weapons were missing from the Varazdin Police Department again, the rakia's fault. It's the brandy, and that Gordan Bosnianac, the NGO, the representative sits on the National Security Committee again, blames the rakija. It is also this Gordan Bosanac, along with the brandy written by the Reports against the Croatian Police, which now hold the Croatian border to plus 33 in the shade. It's all the brandy. The rakija is also guilty of three thousand cancellations to Croatian police officers by Minister Šima Lucin, who was knocked out by a brandy in the presence of dark, naked, and possibly immigrant, in a cheerful society, you don't know which one of his left, which was all the rakija in the history of the police. I hope that these Croatian police officers who are now 5 thousand kn on Croatian borders will not pass through the fate and googogue of those reserves and those officers who received 3000 cancellations in 2001 after the Homeland War. After what they gave, from 5.8.1990 to the end of the war. I hope they won't be replaced by some abolized or perhaps some immigrants who will settle in the... Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145851	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145852	Thank you, Vice President. I'm a colleague of Culey's. You said 5.8.1990, the foundation of the Croatian police. That was honorable and nice of us, of course, when we talk about the police, that the police aren't as respected as they should be. To work for poor wages, yes, that this government has raised something, certain wages, and that's yes. But, seeing how things stand in the economic policy of Croatia, of course they can't anymore. Seeing as she's gone 35 billion, dumped in the Ulnik, 4.5 billion this year, of course, could have been given more to the police. What you mentioned is that on +35 today they stand there in a full war storage facility guarding Croatian borders, yes. Try to underestimate a European policeman, and you'll see what it looks like. Of course, it should be appreciated, respected and paid for and maintained by Croatia's economic policy in order to raise wages. It's all wrong, I agree, what you were saying. All the way to some kind of... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] who do not want the Croatian police at the very least. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145853	Dear Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145854	A fellow Mišić, from our Vinkovci, from my village to dozens of young men went to work in Dubrovnik and I am very well aware that after a night shift they go to the baustels, wear bricks, mix malter, work on cottages, on boards. I also know that they're going to pick olive trees, and my brother's going to the vineyards. And we know well that they will in no way be able to start their families in such a way as to help Croatian demographics. With such a towards a Croatian policeman, we are doomed to seek our way to Ireland, to Germany, where many have already gone and sought better wages and their fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145855	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145856	I'm a colleague of Culey's. In your discussion, you gave an overview of all the dangers that police officers face when doing their job and why it is essential to be as isolated as possible for their education and training. Today we had the opportunity to hear from the left side of the assembly, that a police officer who finished a high school couldn't shed any light on cybercrime, which I absolutely agree with, but there's very little of them in the police force and they're highly specialized police officers, detectives. However, a police officer must know how to defend himself and the attacked citizen, must know the basic control of traffic regulation, secure the crime scene, carry out a search, a chase, and yet training is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145857	Dear Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145858	We are well aware from history that those who from some units turned into police and carried out a very good law by the 1990s were implementing it. That the Croatian police officer who entered the first directors, and there were, in memory, 155-foot-high books, and there were fat and skinny ones, with their hands and knees, as some would say, but they all and most of their jobs were done. The job of the police is the basis of knowledge basic + what they will gain in their work and walking because police tasks are not written, they are not articles but practice and only work on the ground. And these other things that will sit in the offices and write, so that they may be rewarded according to their work, according to the writings. and officers on the ground according to results and according to norms. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145859	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Petar Skoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145860	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Culey's. You mentioned the dignity and dignity of the Croatian police officer who is often exposed to various pressures. You mentioned NGOs, certain individuals and so on, we all witnessed it, and here is the issue of preventing illegal crossover of immigrants to Croatian borders, where we are not only protecting Croatian borders but EU borders. We are witnessing not only that the work, where the police are being pressured, which protects the Croatian border, which protects Croatian laws, but that we are witnessing some institutions in this country that report in this HS are attacking Croatian police. Unargumented, through the media, in various ways and that this law should certainly also enable the protection of the dignity and dignity of the Croatian police officer and where we should all send such messages that the Croatian police officer plays a dignified role today in the Croatian state. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145861	Dear Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145862	By humiliating a Croatian policeman, we humiliate ourselves. We humiliate the state, humiliate the institution under state, but it's well known what associations they are. These are NGOs that have many in Croatia, which live on the budget of Croatian citizens and if we refuse them the funds that they spend on their dissatisfaction, on the calling and defamation of Croatian police, I think the Croatian police would be satisfied with these funds if they were paid in their favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145863	Thank you, I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We will vote on it when the conditions are met, and as you are informed, we will continue our work tomorrow, Friday, June 28th. At 9:30, there will be a statement on the amendments, and at 10:30, there will be a vote on the points we have done. Have a good afternoon. Session interrupted at 17.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145864	We move to a statement on amendments submitted to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 573. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by a respected representative, Ranko Ostojić, and a respected representative, Stjepan Curaj. I'd like the Secretary of State, Mr. Zarko Katic of the MUP to give us a statement on the amendments. First amendment of the respected representative, Ranko Ostojić. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145865	Amendment to the...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145866	I apologize for the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145867	On the 1st amendment, the amendment is not accepted. In fact, the current Police Law provides for the establishment of 21 commissions to work on complaints against the work of police officers. We know that even after two public calls, there weren't enough candidates. We believe that this appointment, therefore, will give one commission of nine members a sufficient number of quality candidates who will accept that duty and that this planned fee is sufficient to motivate them with the rest to work in the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145868	Thank you. Dear colleague Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145869	I'd just comment that work by effect, that means 5% per solved case. Among other things, if it is established that it has been submitted by a non-legislative person it will surely contribute to achieving what is provided for here, which is, you can be surprised you will probably have the full average salary of each member of the commission. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145870	I thank my colleague Ostojić. We are moving on to the 2nd amendment of respected counterpart Rank Ostojic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145871	The amendment is not accepted. Article 14 of the final draft law amending Article 63 of the Law sets out cases in which the schedule of police officers is to be implemented, the decision on the schedule of police officers shall be adopted in an appropriate procedure and under the conditions of the workplace prescribed by the Regulation on the internal order of the MUP. In that case, when the chief director of the police loses his permanent ability to work or ceases his service under the law, no solution is made for his schedule because he has lost his ability to work, or his employment relationship has ceased. We believe that the provision, the provision envisaged, is applicable without this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145872	Thank you. Dear colleague Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145873	Dear Secretary of State, I have already stressed in the debate that it is something contrary to European rules and for this reason I am asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145874	Thank you. We move on to the 3rd amendment of respected counterpart Rank Ostojic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145875	The amendment is not accepted. Article 64(1) provides that a police officer shall be deployed to the workplace in accordance with the degree of education acquired and personal calling. In cases where there is no vacancy in the ministry, a police officer could be deployed in accordance with his personal calling, it was necessary to prescribe that it could be deployed to a lower place of employment, which is in line with the proposed amendment to Article 63. In practice, it has been shown that there are difficulties in applying that provision of the applicable law. Namely, if the police official does not give written consent and there are no appropriate job openings, it cannot be deployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145876	Thank you, dear colleague Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145877	The basic intensities were tied up so that in any case the police officer would remain the same salary. We've led here to the situation that, specifically, here's the chief police director with the rank of chief police advisor may be a police officer. It's something that's completely missed. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145878	I thank my colleague Ostojić. We move on to the 4th amendment of respected counterpart Rank Ostojic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145879	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, this is about the second institute, the Institute of Moving and the argument is the same as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145880	Thank you. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145881	And my argument is the same as the one before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145882	Are you asking for a vote? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We are moving on to the 5th amendment of a respected colleague, Ranko Ostojic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145883	The amendment is not accepted. In order to remove the observed difficulties in the application of Article 10(2) of point 4 of the current Police Act, it is proposed that, as a sanction for the violation of the official duty, transfers to the workplace of the same or lower complexity of transactions without a period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145884	Thank you. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145885	There's no need to explain it specifically, I'm just asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145886	Thank you very much, colleague Ostojić. We're moving on to the amendments of our esteemed colleague, Stephen Curray. Amendment 1. Here's a fellow secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145887	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is that we do not extend the same as Mr. Ostojić's 1st amendment. So there is a commission, this new commission will meet its purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145888	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145889	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, a slightly different amendment regarding the text, but the same meaning is related to fees for members of the commission. The goal of this was, in fact, that it wasn't to fill 9 people, but it was to get 9 quality people, and then the fee that goes to them actually shows how important it is to us who these people are and what business they're going to do. That's why the amendment was that, with this 5% of the net average salary on the finished case, some fixed rate of 15% is also given to prove that we are worthy and that it is important for us to decide but given the government's opinion on the contrary, I am aware of the fact that this cannot pass the vote and I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145890	Thank you. We're moving on to the second amendment of the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145891	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed provision of the final draft law aims to facilitate the work of police admission to persons who have completed their mid-term professional training and for a three-year period. We also believe that a three-year middle school is prepared enough for candidates to have the necessary knowledge and skills, namely when receiving a high-school adult education programme for the profession of a police officer and a police officer who can receive a person under 30 years of age, a selection procedure is carried out that is quite rigorous and the results achieved in previous schooling, that is, three-year or four-year-old after a new one, the results of a check of mental ability, physical, motor skills, general information tests, knowledge of foreign language, information literacy, motivational conversations, and the verification of personal dignity and physical health skills. So, the selection procedure itself is rigorous and we consider that...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145892	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145893	Thank you. So what the objective of this amendment was, in general, is that we need to raise quality rather than worry so much about quantity, given that by the number of police officers on the number of residents we are among the top, therefore we need to provide them with greater, better equipment, better working conditions and, of course, they will be more interested. What's going on here is that we're reducing that criterion from a four-year-old to a three-year-old school, I'm in a debate yesterday, and I said that I can even welcome it to be two-year-old in a certain sense if this applies to people who already have a pre-school education. That may not be such a problem, but I was wondering, and clearly, I didn't get an answer, so what happens when we get a police officer who's still a younger adult? Is that good, does that mean that this three-year-old high school has done the same thing as four-year-old, which is the problem, whether it sums up the four-year-old, three-year-old part if this part of the explanation you've given for up to 30 years old for older people to accept it, absolutely can accept it, it's on that trail, even if it's two-year-old, but I'm interested in what's basic, so here I think we need to do more quality work, on better working conditions, and then of course we'll get more interest and have as much quality as possible, so as well as selection and quality employees who should be at the service of citizens and the satisfaction of citizens. Of course, I understand that and I realize that the government has not accepted this, therefore in part, and I can accept the explanation with which I agree and, as well as for the previous amendment, I will withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145894	Thank you. I also thank the Secretary of State for showing the amendments submitted, and with this we have exhausted all amendments to the proposed legislation that we have on the agenda for voting. I now set a break of up to 10 hours and 30 minutes when we will continue the plenary session with a vote on the debate points, thank you very much. It's 10:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-27-0.u145895	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 573. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Ranko Ostojić and representative Stjepan Curaj. We held the statement earlier at the session, so we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. In turn, the First Amendment of Representative Ranko Ostojic was not accepted, so we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the Second Amendment of the same representative, and it's also not accepted, so we have to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number three of the same representative, also not accepted, so we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 4. Relegator Ostojić, not accepted, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And we're going to the Fifth Amendment of the same agent that wasn't accepted, so I'm asking you to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. So let's now go to the amendments of MP Stephen Curaj, he withdrew his two amendments so we don't have to vote, but we can move to a vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 for and 1 abstentions and 13 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. And now, given that our new representative, Snow White Sabolek, is here, she will swear. The other two MPs will do it next time. So I ask the representative to comply with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall, by name, convene the representatives. A representative who has been called rise and pronounces "I swear". The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Snow White Sabolek.
