ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167459	Good morning, everybody. We have a small technical problem, since we do not have a report on the work of the Euro Affairs Committee as we do not currently have in the Assembly or the applicant of the Report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2018 I have to give a 15-minute recess. ... I'm sorry or that's the way it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At 9.45, we resume the session. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:46 AM]] We begin with: - The report on the work of the European Affairs Committee in 2018 is submitted by the European Affairs Committee on the basis of Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. With us, the president of the European Affairs Committee, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, is with us, if he wishes to give an additional explanation. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167461	Good morning, everyone. First of all, I apologize to you deeply, and to all my colleagues and colleagues and the public who are interested in this debate today for a brief delay. Today, we are hosting the Turkish delegation, and given the seriousness and intensity of the events in and around Turkey, then we were a few minutes late. Excuse me. So, as the chairman announced today you have a report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for 2018, this is the second such report since I was chairman of the Committee, the fourth total was established by the Committee on European Affairs in 2013. In 2018, I think that all and those who follow these European jobs will agree there have been many challenges that have often been in the media, from Brexit, who unfortunately today is not the end of the story today, the multiannual financial framework will only see whether it will be successful this year or actually welcome the Croatian Presidency, migration and migration events in and around the EU. Since the year 2018 for Europe was the year before the European elections itself, it was also expected that some things were not resolved since these committees were expected, so all this is expensive all these challenges welcomed and open issues for this new Commission and the new European Parliament. On the other hand, what we think is good, which happened in our country in Croatia, but also across the EU, was an increase in the number of European elections, which means that citizens care about what happens in Brussels and the EU. What I want to say in this introductory part, and that is especially sorry, I believe most of it in this assembly, and that is that this recently does not belong in 2018, but precisely because it is evident that the focus on so-called. The Western Balkans area or mostly the former Yugoslavia state and plus Albania. Unfortunately, some EU member states have not recognised what is happening in this area and what some countries are doing in that area, and I have to show great dissatisfaction that negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania have not been reopened, especially with Northern Macedonia, which has taken some steps and I have said that several times in public. It is probably the only left-wing prime minister I sincerely support because I think that Mr Zaev in Macedonia has done out of pure conviction what he thinks is good not only for the Macedonian people but also for the Albanian who lives in Macedonia, which is the way to the NATO Alliance and the EU. Allow me some basic information on the committee's work. In the last year, we held 15 sessions, most of the sessions were dedicated to activities through which the Committee participated indirectly in the process of adopting EU binding acts to monitor the government's activities. In December 2018, a previous debate was held on the work of the Parliament in European affairs, the Committee concluded the year by participating in the process of proposing a candidate for the EU General Court. During 2018, the Committee held two thematic sessions on the Strategy for the introduction of the euro as an official currency and on the EU enlargement policy in the light of Croatian foreign policy. On the basis of the work programme of the European Commission for 2018, the Committee adopted a work programme to examine the position of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and, in cooperation with the home working bodies, discussed and concluded a total of 33 positions of the Republic of Croatia. The government regularly informed the European Affairs Committee of the meetings of the European Council, the Prime Minister himself, each time, by delivering agendas and proposals for the conclusions of the European Council as well as those of the Republic of Croatia for each item of the agenda. The Committee also regularly received views for the meetings of the Council of the EU, during the year a total of 76 forwarded to the home working bodies. The Committee shall be 2018. On 14 December, the report on candidates of the Republic of Croatia for judges of the General Court and after the debate was held unanimously adopted an opinion that supported the proposed candidate professor of science Vesna Tomljenović and Tamara Periša also a professor and doctor of science. It should also be noted that the Croatian Parliament is only eight national parliaments of the EU Member States participating in the selection procedures of national candidates for EU institutions and bodies, which gives our candidates as well as the other eight additional legitimacy. Although today we are discussing the 2018 report, it should be said that the committee this year also supported the candidate for the European Court of Auditors member Mrs Maletic in August and Mrs Suic as candidate for a member of the European Commission. When it comes to direct cooperation with European institutions, the EU institutions regularly submitted proposals for legislative and non-legislative acts and other documents and notifications to the Committee on European Affairs and the Croatian Parliament. I stress this all together especially because it is often heard the impact of national parliaments on EU policies. I spent the last two days in Germany, I was in Berlin on Wednesday at a meeting of the Pucans, but regardless it was just one of the important topics, which is the co-operation between national parliaments and Brussels and all EU institutions. In cooperation with the Office for Media of the Croatian Parliament, a new solution for publication and monitoring of EU documents was designed as part of the upgrade of the official website of the Croatian Parliament. The new database of documents submitted directly was published together with the new Assembly websites in December 2018 and contains EU documents delivered directly during the 9th Assembly meeting. Visits by members of the European Commission have been continued, we hosted a total of 6 Commissioners from the European Commission last year. Meetings with them were held, as was the case before, together with the home working bodies. As regards international cooperation, the CoSAC Committee on Euro Affairs, the Conference of the Union's Committee on the Affairs of the EU Parliaments and the Committee delegations participated in all COSAC meetings held in 2018, which are 4 each year, i.e. 2 chairmanships at 6 months times 2 meetings, 4 each year. During the upcoming Croatian Presidency of the EU's Euro Affairs Council, it will host two COSAC meetings to be held in Zagreb. About that a little bit later. In addition to this multilateral format, the Committee has also been active in bilateral activities. The delegation of the Committee on Harmonisation with the EU of the Great National Assembly of Turkey was held in April 2018 on a return visit to Zagreb. We were in Ankara in 2017. The topics of the talks were strengthening bilateral relations, the possibility of economic co-operation and the situation in BiH and the prospects of course. A visit to the delegation of the Committee on the Eu Integration of the Montenegrin Assembly from 27 June to 30 June 2018 was concluded with the signing of a Protocol on cooperation between the Euro Affairs Committee, the Croatian Parliament and the European Integration Committee of Montenegro. The Committee also realised two visits abroad, we were in the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo, Pristina and visiting the Kingdom of the Netherlands in December. Bilateral cooperation with complementary committees of national parliaments has continued since 2018 and we stress the importance of this form of cooperation and the achievement of bilateral contacts. We have made particular efforts over the past few years on several occasions and more colleagues from the majority and from the opposition we were practically in all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, we were not in Serbia. As regards preparations for the implementation of the parliamentary dimension of the presidency, let me also say a few sentences. In addition to the government's dimension, which is logically dominant throughout the EU in terms of the EU organisation, the EU Council Presidency also has its parliamentary dimension, which is within the competence of the national parliaments of the Member States. The parliamentary dimension concerns co-operation between EU parliaments, national Member States and the European Parliament. Five interparliamentary conferences will be held during the Croatian Presidency of the Council, chaired by our Croatian Parliament. I already mentioned the meeting of the president of COSAC first and then so on. A large plenary COSAC, followed by the Interparliamentary Conference on the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy, a meeting of the Europol Joint Group and the Interparliamentary Conference on Stability and Economic Co-ordination and Management in the EU. The Euro Affairs Committee will host the COSAC president's meetings, scheduled for February 19th and 20th in Zagreb and plenary COSAC on 24-26th, also in Zagreb. Plenary COSAC is the largest conference within the parliamentary dimension of the presidency, often and within the entire presidency, it will be held on 24 or 26 May in Zagreb next year. The Euro Affairs Committee will be responsible for calling and chairing those COSAC meetings in the work of the COSAC presidential troika, the Committee is involved during the Finnish Presidency, which is now almost finished in the second half of 2019 and remains with its member until the end of 2020 and until the end of the German Presidency of the EU Council. The Euro Affairs Committee will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Croatian Presidency of the Council by selecting topics and speakers at COSAC meetings. In this plenary COSAC, we intend to put into question the transformation of the labour market, the management of demographic imbalances and labour mobility within the EU, which is why we want to draw attention to the issues of internal migration in the Union that represent both the short-term and the same great challenge as external migration. In fact, what was logical to expect when the agreement was being negotiated and when the common market was being promoted was perfectly clear that sooner or later this would cause internal migration to the Union. That's what we're relatively reluctant to talk about at meetings in Brussels. However, I think that especially we and the other Member States who have suffered the departure of population to other countries, so it is perfectly clear and could also be expected that the centrifugal force of some major economies will attract young people and not so young people anymore. But the process needs to be discussed openly, we think across the EU. We think that the EU has enough tools if we work together, i.e. the meaning of the EU, starting with cohesion funds, so the convergence process goes on. Help and support to Member States to create a more competitive economy as soon as possible, because this is a key way to keep young people in the country, but also attract others, since we know that the Croatian labour market is also in a good balance because of leaving Croatia. So in this sense the entire one panel will be dedicated in May next year to this particular topic. We think that, regardless of the economic power within the EU, everyone has a responsibility and must participate not only in the debate but also in finding a solution so that it does not simply happen in some Member States that there is a significant population drain which, of course, further complicates what we all want and that is economic progress and social stability, and ultimately political stability. What I also want to point out here, I've already talked about it once here, and that is that some Member States, some Member States, not Member States, I apologize, therefore only candidates, also record large outflows of the population. Therefore, only EU membership is not a reason or is not necessarily a reason for the loss of the population and for the departure of people. So the Macedonian prime minister at the last meeting when we were in Skopje told me that around their assessment that a quarter of the population had left Macedonia for the past 10, 15 years. So both Macedonians and Albanians have not even started negotiations yet. So what I think is that it is evident that membership is not that reason but that, in fact, EU membership provides a lot of tools to keep it from happening and to slow down or to completely stop and reverse this, this tendency and given what I said, centripetal, powerful centripetal forces of some major economies and there are enough examples in the EU, and even these new Member States, so-called. like the Czech Republic or Slovakia that did this, so there is no reason why we can't do it in Croatia, thanks to the very tools that the EU provides. Finally, let me conclude on the quality of work of the EU Affairs Committee is particularly important cooperation with other working bodies in the Assembly, and thanks to all colleagues who regularly engage in European affairs, they join the activities organised by the EU Committee on Most Affairs and the opposition. And I also want to thank all my colleagues or colleagues on our committee without which and their efforts our work would be far more difficult, not to say impossible. The most important task, of course, for our committee in the coming period is to participate in the implementation of the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency of the EU Council and the household at meetings... Here, thank you for your attention, I believe there will be a replica, so I'll answer later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167462	Thank you, colleagues, to Domagoj Milosevic. On your show we have four replicas, the first fellow cellic, followed by his colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milosevic, in the context of common European policies, primarily trade policies, are a particular challenge for the bilateral relations of EU member states with individual countries in the context of EU-China, EU-Russia, EU-US relations, so I am interested in what you think about these challenges, despite these common European trade policies, we are witnessing that large countries such as Germany and France again have special bilateral relations with these countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167464	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167465	Thank you, fellow Cellic. So logically and expected, given the stage in which the development of the EU is that some of the largest economies have such direct relations, however, what my impression has been over the past year, which is that it is nevertheless easy to relate, especially to the largest economies, so from the east of China or India are consolidated, so that, of course, there is much more to be discussed and agreed within the EU, starting with foreign policy itself. Here, I cited an example here earlier, which is that simply a few states have blocked the opening of negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. In what direction therefore further decision in EU foreign policy will we see, however, it is evident that the necessity to support absolutely everyone, and even so I think not the key EU decisions, to start negotiations that will last 2 mandates The commission needs... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167466	Thank you. Thank you. A colleague of Maras, after him, a colleague of Kirin's. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167467	Thank you very much, Mr. Milosevic. In your presentation, you mentioned that you were in Berlin a few days ago for a meeting of the European People's Party. I am interested, as well as in Croatian citizens, in whether the EPS meeting was held in Bundestag, a large council of Bundestagas. That's what I'm saying because of HDZ's embarrassing decision to rent this big council and put on the market so that a party meeting can be held here and that there are guys like Tajani sitting here who've stood out with auditist outbursts towards the Republic of Croatia. So I'm interested, and from the context because we listened to HDZ that it was possible in Denmark, we heard yesterday that the Danish Parliament had denied it. So Croatia unfortunately and HDZ He's trying to offend our parliament. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And I wonder if that's what happened in Germany. [[Thank you, colleague Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167468	Here you go, buddy, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167469	Yeah, you're not a colleague of Maras's right. I'll tell you why. So, we've spent all day, which is, therefore, party, as you say, EPS, first of all, at Mrs. McNally's. Merkel, and that's in the offices where the German Chancellor, EPS, presidencies, and after that we were both in Bundestag and there we also had meetings, you're asking for the largest hall in the Bundestag. Your Bundestag is probably 10th, 15 times the size of the Croatian parliament. So, opportunities, let me finish now, you said, I listen, I've been out of Croatia for three days, but the most normal situation was that we were going to the Bundestag, we had meetings in Bundestag, we weren't in the largest council, but when you look at a simple physical comparison between HS and where it's possible to hold a meeting like that in the Croatian parliament versus the Bundestag, then the possibilities are simply incomparable.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167470	The next replica of my colleague Kirin, and after him, fellow Uncle. Here you go, colleague Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167471	Your Honor, Vice President. President-in-Office of the EU Affairs Committee. Two thematic sessions on the introduction of the euro as official currencies in Croatia were held. Please inform the Croatian citizens from the position of the board's president on the budget of the introduction of the euro because Eurosceptics don't want the euro, they don't want Europe, they don't want membership, and they said before that we are part of Europe and that we should go to Europe, I don't know where they want to go back to the Balkans now, be in the Balkans, go back to the dinars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167472	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167473	Thank you, colleague Kirin. So here's the deal. I think that first of all, we need to discuss all the cold heads together, especially for our citizens. The trip to the euro will take some years and on this road we have homework to do a lot of both Croatian governments and HS and those we haven't done in the past 10, 15 years. As for the introduction of the euro itself when the moment comes, it should be said that given our national economy and structure, our national economies a significant share of tourism and the fact that, when you look at the past 20 and more years, the kuna, in relation to the once German mark, and today the euro related in that sense, except in this sense, the identity of our kuna and our Croatian money, will not be any dramatic change. All statistics so far show so far that price changes are also negligible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167474	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167475	Thank you, Vice President. When we talk about European topics, fellow Milosevic is important to highlight the two priority goals of the Republic of Croatia, which is to enter the Eurozone and Schengen area. This week we have witnessed that we have met all the criteria for entering the Schengen area and, of course, it is one, one of the great merits of the current government. However, when we talk about entering the Schengen area, it is important to note that it will make life easier for all citizens living along the border with Slovenia. Among other things in Varazdin County a year ago we have a major problem with transit, especially when we talk about Sraćinec-Petrianec-Cestica. Namely, they form especially on Mondays and Tuesdays of the big column, and it makes life difficult for our fellow citizens And now that the border is moving east, no more surveillance will be much easier. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167476	Point, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167477	Thank you. Comrade Striker, that of course you are absolutely right, and I would like to, what you said added another important dimension somehow seemed to me to be trying to make this kind of spin that is the opposite, but also our external border which today is our EU external border, but not the Schengen border will get some sort of more significant, firmer status. We are all aware of what is going on, as far as migration is concerned, it was one of the key topics and this morning's meeting with the Turkish delegation. Of course, no one, it is clear to all that the migrants did not land in BiH, so the migrants who came to BiH and on the border with Croatia have traveled this distance purely physically, therefore walking and we think that Croatian entry into Schengen regardless of what someone will say to Romania, Bulgaria, we have met the criteria and every country and we always advocate to see individual success, individual positions of each country regardless Which association it's about. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167478	Thank you. This ended the replicas of the rapporteur, i.e. submiter of Mr Domagoj Ivan Milosevic's explanation. I'm opening the debate now, so we've got three representatives' clubs on file. The first registered club of MPs is the club of representatives of HDZ and colleagues Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I use the opportunity to welcome the work of the Committee on European Affairs in the past period and to point out that there is a big job ahead of all of us especially in front of this committee when it comes to the Presidency, the Croatian Presidency in the first half of next year. First let me look back on the positive assessment we received this week regarding Croatia's accession to Schengen space. This is not only a strong indicator that we have met the technical conditions but that Croatia strengthens its external political influence particularly within the EU. Another proof of this is that we will also get the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mrs Dubravko Shuica, through the formation of a new European Commission's call for success. Although the Council of Europe is not the EU institution to appoint former Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric as chief secretary, we are enjoying an ever-increasing influence in Europe and that our diplomatic political activity is gaining a new dimension. All of this must be a strong incentive for us to do even more and better and to put Croatia in the place that belongs to it in the European family and avoid classifications in the category of Europe with two speeds. A number of meetings of the presidents and members of the Committee on European Affairs with foreign officials we had during the year where we have always advocated the continuation of the EU's enlargement to the Southeast European countries, in particular to continue BiH's European path, as well as to ensure respect for the real consistency of Croats in BiH. The European Affairs Committee has strongly lobbyed for giving and opening accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania, and I am sorry that this has not happened because Northern Macedonia has made the desired turn and has earned a concrete date. At committee meetings, we also had the opportunity to get acquainted with Brexit, which is an example of how difficult it is to leave the European family and what membership in such an association means for each country. But it's up to us to do everything we can. There's always more to it. More usability of the European Funds should be encouraged, as we can see from the results available, that it is moving forward. Citizens are asking us for even more and it should be said that EU membership cannot always be seen through the current prism of financial benefits. Sometimes the results are visible only after a few years, if not decades. It is important to position Croatia in a better place with sound policy and strategic approach because it will benefit directly from those living in Croatia, as well as the diaspora. We should not forget about our entrepreneurs who directly feel every political change in Croatia. The Committee on European Affairs plays a major role in this because, as a working body, it can propose legislation, but also influence the creation of a European policy, given the role of a committee that has parliamentary oversight over the work of the Government. The Committee has always been open to new proposals and initiatives, regardless of which political parties came from what I believe should and remain because we need unity in important European issues. I will also point out here that the topics to be discussed during the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council, and the Committee on European Affairs has a total of two conferences within the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency, are very well affected. Economy, market policies, climate change, security, enlargement are the topics we will discuss in the first half of next year during the Presidency and when we will host a number of officials from other European parliaments. This is going to be a big test for us, and I believe we're quite ready. Security is certainly an important segment because the migrant crisis has shown how much the EU project is full of challenges and requires permanent adaptations. Once again, I commend the report, as well as all the efforts made by the Committee on European Affairs in the framework of its work. The HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167480	Thank you. The next colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please welcome counterpart Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. President of the Committee, colleagues and colleagues, I think that this good practice that we are discussing is the report of the Committee on European Affairs in which I have been a member since the beginning of this call and I can say that one of the committees that has worked most intensively and most closely, which is in formal sessions, but a lot is also informally done. This is good because we can discuss what has been done, remind ourselves of what has been done, and also discuss what is ahead of us and open up some current topics related to the EU, our EU membership and, therefore, the public concerned and the political public can hear more and learn about it. First of all, I would say, and here we have to keep aware of this fact, European affairs do not fall into foreign affairs, European affairs are the internal affairs of the Republic of Croatia, our EU membership is no longer foreign affairs, although they often come together and interfere, but I think it is in some way and unnatural because European businesses are actually Croatian business. It's something to get used to, how the public gets political, but so does it. When we talk about a few things that are ahead of us, which I must mention because my colleague mentioned before me, it is a positive opinion by the European Commission on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Schengen area, I must stress that this is not the merit of any government, not a single man, it is the dedicated work of more governments in order to meet all the conditions. I'd like to say that with the Commission's positive opinion, we've completed the accession process, but I'd say this is only the end of the process. Still, there is much, much effort ahead of us to actually achieve our Schengen membership and materialise, or to confirm our entry, I believe that in due course, but in the next half of the next year we are chairing the Union, I do not believe that this issue will then be opened, but only later. So we can hope at best for a further, further development of our story about Schengen only in the second half of the year. Of course, the green light or the positive opinion of the European Commission does not necessarily mean that all member states will follow it, it is our job now and as a committee, and also as an HS and as representatives representing the Republic of Croatia in different European associations and meetings to just advocate this story and to convince colleagues to listen to the European Commission, since we have met all the key requirements of infrastructure, there are now some small ones that concern legislation that are relatively easy to fix, but also the question of political will. So I stress, Schengen is not like EU membership, it's not the merit of one government, it's not the merit of one man, it's the process we've decided on and we have a consensus, one of the few things in the Republic of Croatia that we have a consensus on, I think we should discuss it more. The second topic is EUR-o, the EUR-o on which we had the thematic session of the board and I would actually particularly praise the thematic sessions, some committees have them more, but I think it's much more productive to have them less, but well prepared, I particularly appreciate this about the EUR that it has been very interesting and well prepared and we should continue to open these topics on the board, even hold that we should have foloape etc. our thematic sessions, especially if the thematic session brings out some recommendations, so let's see how our conclusions are carried out and whether those who should have heard them have heard them. Besides, as I was saying, in addition to committee meetings, there is one less visible part of the work, which is our constant consideration of the position of the Republic of Croatia for which we are going to the EU Council. I would like to, it is now my personal observation that more colleagues are involved in this, that they give more suggestions and suggestions, and in particular cannot be satisfied with the way other working bodies respond to cooperation with our committee, since, as I said, European affairs are not external, but Croatian affairs, they concern all resolutions and all committees working in HS, so that the opinion of individual committees on certain topics from their work. So, while we come from different professions in the Committee on European Affairs, as a rule, we are members of other committees dealing with certain topics, we cannot yet know about everything, and that is why more suggestions, more proposals and more volunteering by other working bodies would be highly appreciated, I think that I can say that on behalf of the Committee, of course I call on both colleagues and colleagues who, who want and have an interest in getting involved as much as possible because we need your help, not only the Committee but I think it is good and that the Government has certain suggestions on how to present and what position is taken on individual issues on the EU Council. As for the visit and cooperation with the European Commission, the European Commission and other EU bodies, I would nevertheless express one part of the dissatisfaction, although we have had many visits in 2018, a lot of Commissioners have come to our committee, we have had opportunities to discuss with them issues related to their portfolio, but also beyond, many of them, the vice-presidents of the commission were, therefore, still old, I think it is not good and it is not a good message if the President of the European Commission comes to the Republic of Croatia not to visit HS, not necessarily to meet with the board, but at least with the president of HS and the chairman of the Committee. National parlametts should certainly be involved in European issues, much more so as I have said the Croatian questions. And I think the message sent this way that the President of the European Commission does not visit the Croatian Parliament is very bad. As far as the new commission is concerned, so although we are dealing with the fact that Croatia is likely to get the Vice-President of the European Commission, it is also far from over. Unfortunately, I must express my concern here and the skepticism when we will have a new commission because of the European Commission's move, I hope in the near future precisely because we face great challenges, which is the Presidency of the European Union. I am pleased that the Croatian Parliament has taken the view that our committee as a committee dealing with these issues will also be a focal point, i.e. a focus point for the parliamentary dimension of the presidency. This is a major challenge for both the Committee and the Committee's professional service and for the entire Parliament. I believe we're up to it, but it'll mean a lot, a lot of work. I would also like to invite all colleagues and colleagues who are interested in helping us with their suggestions and ideas and participations in meetings. So we're going to have a whole series of meetings during the presidency, and I think we're talking about about 500 technical meetings that are related to Parliament, which is not, but I believe there will be opportunities for each from their perspective to make a certain contribution. I would also like to commend the fact that, as a rule, the committee is on important issues when it comes to our views and our position towards the EU is being negotiated by consensus. I don't think I remember the last time we had these dissonant tones, of course some of them are more critical. When we consider certain laws then there can be different opinions, which is good, but in general when we have taken some global flat-rate views or attitudes of the Republic of our Committee and of the Croatian Parliament, that was not the case and that was very good. I often say that there should be more consensus in our policy. We had only two consensuss, actually three, so let's say in the history of Croatia so far, that's Croatia's independence or democratic change, that's NATO entry and EU accession. After that, I feel that we are a little lost and that we do not see how to strategically position Croatia within the EU. I would like to say that we have a consensus when it comes to candidates and candidates who we propose for duties not only in the EU but in other multilateral organisations. We have proved this in the Council of Europe that it is very possible and necessary above all for the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, but I would like that to happen always and regardless of the candidate or candidate from which political options or preferences came. So I would so like our candidate for the UN Secretary-General to have more support for this government than I would have liked, and that HDZ's representatives in the European Parliament also supported a candidate who wanted to bid in place in European institutions, the leading place of a European institution. Let me finally thank the board president for his excellent cooperation and to thank the professional services, especially thank them because, as the president said, without them and their dedicated work, our work would be much harder not to say impossible. The SDP representative club will support the committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167482	Thank you to my colleague, Domagou Hajdukovic. Before the next debate, we will welcome the Zagorje Zabok Association Network that joined us in the assembly. Good afternoon and welcome. ... Thank you. [[Applause.]] Next is counterpart Marin Škibola in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167483	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and distinguished MPs. Since I am a member of the Committee on European Affairs, I would like to draw attention to certain problems, not only in this Committee on European Affairs but in general to other committees that have personally disturbed me. So when some meetings are organised and the representatives for the debate are reported, I don't know exactly the order, you don't know the rules. So when the MP reported that he wanted to speak to the board president, it was to assess how much he would give him a minute to discuss it. And I'm not saying that these board presidents are unfair and unfair, I'm just saying there's no order. And then, in certain situations, too much concentration is imposed on the chairman of the board that directs the debate because the rules are not known. The rules of the European Parliament know exactly how much the advocate has the right to speak on individual committees, and I believe that this is a positive practice that should be implemented in the Croatian Parliament, since there have been certain unpleasant experiences where we have been limited precisely because these rules are not known. As far as the problems of European institutions are concerned, many agree that some of the major problems of European institutions today are intransparency. It means non-transparency and because of this non-transparentity of European institutions, the confidence of EU citizens is increasingly falling in the EU, and then the European establishment wonders when it sees populist movements growing as they call them, that nationalist parties grow. Why are they surprised? Because they don't see, so there's no self-critics, they see the problem in these populist movements, but they won't work on the very promotion of these European institutions to make the citizens of Europe feel more involved in these processes themselves. It should be said that the presidency of the Croatian Council of the EU is a really big thing for the Republic of Croatia, but I also have some criticism here in this segment. We have not received at all information that is the priorities of Croatia during the EU Presidency, citizens do not know what it means for them and since citizens do not know what the EU Council Presidency means, it means nothing to them at all because they cannot identify themselves at all with what it should mean for them and what benefits Croatia will have in the future and what benefits citizens themselves will have in the future. For the start of the Croatian positions that our ministers represent in the Council are a secret, it is classified documents that are quite ironically bearing a code of secrecy unclassified. These unclassified positions are adopted by the Government in closed parts of the cabinet session, after which these same positions are delivered to the parliamentary committees, but only in the light of the fact that they cannot be handled. It's another example of intransparency. And I believe that the position that our Government holds on the Council should be available to everyone. Because if those positions held by the Government on the Council were available to all, then it would be one transparent procedure for Croatian citizens to know whether the Croatian Government really represents what it says in public in the European institutions themselves and whether it really represents those views that it represents in the Croatian public in front of its European counterparts. Further examples of intransparency, you have probably heard of agreements that were to be implemented between the EU and America. One example was this TTIP Agreement and now, for example, In order for the Parliamentarian to come to the information and content contained in this agreement, he would have to go through how many of these checks to make information available to him at all. And what message is being sent to Croatian citizens when they hear certain things in the EU work that way? It means that the parliamentarian elected by the citizens is limited to that information. They shall not be formally restricted, but in order to obtain the content contained in this Agreement. What was in that agreement was he had to go through I don't know what bureaucratic procedures and then MPs would just and give up because they wouldn't even let it all go because it was so complex. And then they wonder at all if it makes sense and ultimately it would be available to them, but since the text of this agreement itself is very complex and not all lawyers, and especially not that international character, international law or MPs would not be clear what it says in that TTIP. We also had a CETA agreement between the EU and Canada, a little debate on the Committee on European Affairs on the very agreement. I remember that the representatives of the European Parliament from Croatia were then on the Committee on European Affairs, and my criticism to them was precisely in this context that they, as the euro MPs, did not inform Croatian citizens enough what is in the CETA Agreement and what conferences the CETA Agreement will have in Croatia. And there were a lot of controversial issues, one of these issues was that particular supranational court where corporations could sue the state with these supranational courts if the states as a threat to their business in a particular country. They can feel corporations are threatened because, I don't know, they don't think the elements of the free market are satisfied and then sue the state in that supranational court and the state has to pay enormous penalties. It's just one of the problems that was the CETA, and there are other problems, and I can't touch all that because I don't have that kind of time. There was also GMO food, liberalisation in these segments, etc. As I said to the Croatian public, there is no information about the Croatian views that our ministers represent in the Council of Ministers and EU institutions and the entire EU political system has serious problems with the decline of citizens' confidence, and this also makes a significant contribution to the non-transparent formulation of European policies at national level. Recently, we also had the choice of Commissioner of the European Commission in the Republic of Croatia and now how this process worked, in a way that the Government would decree one person, so there were no more candidates. We MPs couldn't discuss with more candidates to ask them their opinions and that on that basis we can assess which candidate is competent for that position. No, but the government decreed that one candidate would go to the European Commission, that one candidate came before the Euro Affairs Committee, we did the debate, that candidate was elected and that's it. So that, it looks like the HDZ elections, HDZ is also chosen by only one candidate. But what kind of democracy is that? That democracy is a farce to me, a farce where you have no more candidates. The biggest shame is to hide information from the Croatian public about the embezzlement called withdrawal of funds from the eu funds. Every little bit of the ministry is placed on the dropper with the resolved PR equipment on partial information about the withdrawal of European funds that cloud our biggest shame, which is that the trom and inert administration which is dominated by these political fossils simply is not able to transfer money from eu funds through tenders to end-users. And these are the facts, we all know here that Croatia is not good at withdrawing, withdrawing money from the eu funds. In the closed part of the cabinet session, the report on the effectiveness of the withdrawal of funds shall be submitted orally. Look, it's oral and it's like an oral exam at a primary school. So there's no written trace. It is a shame that the government does not create regular reports on the withdrawal of eu funds, that these data are collected, cumulative, not ambiguous, hidden from the public. And do you know who handles this information the most substanceful and transparently? State audit. The state audit last did so during the annual report on the implementation of the budget and the State Audit there says this information. In January 2017, the IPA project and the Structural Funds for the period 2007 to 2013. Unexploited funds at the end of the year. At the end of 2018, they amount to 150m euros. So only in 2017 did we complete the agreement for the programme which expired in 2013 and yet the remaining EUR 150 million was unused. Through the programmes made by Croatia by the end of 2018, Croatia paid 26.7% of the funds available for the period until the end of 2018, meaning a quarter, only a quarter of all available funds paid to end-users. I'm not going to read that data anymore because I don't have time but I just want to make a statement to the State Audit Office, he says the dynamics of withdrawing funds from those funds are not satisfactory. It is also thought that the slow withdrawal of funds from EU funds risks keeping some of the available funds unused. In view of the public interest, the State Audit Office is of the opinion that the use of eu funds and funds available for a specific programming period should be provided on a regular basis by the public. So this is the opinion of the State Audit Office, that the public should be given full information which implies that the Government does not provide complete information on the withdrawal of funds from the eu funds. In view of this conclusion of the State Audit, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List will draw up a conclusion in the parliamentary procedure which obliges the Ministry of Finance to provide clear, aggregated and unambiguous information as part of the annual report on the implementation of the budget on the withdrawal of funds that the Government hides as a snake's feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167484	Thank you, too. That's what ended the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Now we continue with an individual debate. We have two reports. First application is a colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning to say a few things in general about the work of the Committee itself, it is not a disputed enthusiasm of the president and the desire to make it more constraint and effort and to say and convene meetings and analyse certain things but in my opinion, the fact that this report shows itself is that, in my opinion, the Croatian Parliament is insufficiently involved in the European affairs of the Republic. Is this about positions for the councils held in Brussels, whether it is about certain I would say attitudes on the issue and enlargement especially because here we have heard and great support is going towards the start of a process for countries like Albania and northern Macedonia. So it's not disputed that we in the Parliament want to be more participated, but the framework we have in me is not adequate. It means that our citizens get information and try to figure out how it works. Most of the things discussed by the Euro Affairs Committee are already those agreed and discussed and within the Councils European and most of them and within the framework of the European Parliament, so it is one such more informative body, and I would prefer that we have a greater possibility of participation in the decision-making itself, and then, how would you say, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia might be more involved through their representatives in HS. Another thing I want to say here is that European affairs and the Croatian Parliament must have certain, to say, links tighter, but the most unfortunately ruling majority can give us are these visits by party officials and an unheard one more time, and I'm going to say the unheard situation to me, I wouldn't laugh here, ma'am. Glavak, I would have been blushing in your place because the other day you said that the Danes had rented your assembly what they had denied yesterday if you followed the media, so you lied to the Croatian public saying that in Denmark it was in the same way because, as Mr. Milosevic also said here in the Bundestag that, a visit, a visit, etc., but in the assembly, in the large council, never and most or all of the European Parliaments adhered to these practices, the only Croatian Parliament for the perception of the state in the head of Mr. Plenković, the state it was me, that allowed this assembly to be rented for as much as, 35,000,00 kn, to sit here characters like Tajani and Vucica, and that Croatian citizens must know that it is not the same to rent and that it is not the same to rent the Parliament and the large council and under the cover that the fact that it was not possible for the Croatian parties to do so much of the EU and the fact that it. Croatian citizens certainly do not want us to treat the Croatian Parliament and the great councilwoman in HS in such a way that it can be rented for party gatherings where I say, there will be people like Tajani who had an auditist attitude towards our Dalmatia and not to say which other teams will be there, it would be great if they were all like Mrs. Merkel no, but unfortunately they didn't, and the colleagues from the European People's Party don't, so, from HDZ excuse me, so here's what I had to say here. The other thing, the other thing that is also important, and it was mentioned by Mr Milosevic, in my opinion, is one thing that the Committee on European Affairs should not have done, which is that he should not have supported Mrs. Shuicu, who could not and cannot explain where she got 5 million Euros and refuses to say in what way she gained, the person who was a schoolteacher, now we have a strike, these educational workers, so they know well what the salaries were, was a teacher in English school until she began to deal with politics through HDZ, did not in this way accumulated, 5 million EUR's assets on the one hand, public work through HDZ on the other hand, and that is, that is, what I continue to insist on, that all those who influence it, not yet late, yet the commission is not adopted, must not have such an example of politicians representing in the European Commission. So, in particular, the Committee on European Affairs should have insisted more strongly that, that this property be enlightened and therefore not Mrs. Shuica, like all other representatives in the Croatian Parliament, presented her property to the Croatian public according to Croatian laws. This report, which is given about, oh, the potential conflict of interest to the European Parliament, is much lower by criteria than is given in the property cards in the Republic of Croatia. And now the question is why it continues to insist on this and why the Republic of Croatia must and in these talks, so you have also seen writing some influential European media that have written about, oh, oh, what would you say, non-transparent origin or inability to show where this impressive property came from, the EUR 5 million of Ms. who is still a candidate for the Commissioner in the European Commission. So that's another thing where, in my opinion, the Committee on European Affairs should have raised a ladder up and had to in some way insist on showing by Croatian laws how this property was acquired, not hiding behind GDPR, means Mrs. Shuica did not give permission either to the Committee for Conflict of Interest to show old documents, imagine why, what she had hidden there and why she did not want to show it in a way that Croatian citizens are sure there is nothing slow about it. Of course, of course, when it comes to HDZ there is no transparency in, obviously in the same sentence and in the same paragraph. So, to conclude, as far as this report is concerned, it is quite indicative for me and within what the committee can do, it has been written all since the membership visits, the possessions of European institutions, the sessions at which we have discussed about the points that were on the European Council, meaning it is all technically numbered, but the impact unfortunately is not almost so, and if something as a conclusion of this debate would want for the future, and the Committee on European Affairs in the Croatian Parliament is more participating in the preparation of policies and attitudes of the Republic of Croatia in relation to what it is doing today, and that we can have more influence in the beginning as representatives of the Republic of Croatia on certain positions that will be presented by the Republic of Croatia, whether in the European Parliament we can of course and through representatives in the European Parliament, but it would not be bad for us to be able to do so through this committee and possibly on the European Council, because unfortunately, I say, the views are only subsequently, through the form of information presented and almost no influence in this House. So here's what it was, I think honestly I have to say that the report is correctly written what it was doing and on that side technically I don't have any major objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167486	Thank you, fellow Marasu. We have four replicas on his display. He was the first colleague of Klisovic, followed by his colleague, Milosevic, and counterpart Hajdukovic, and then a colleague of Glavak. Here's my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167487	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr Maras, in your presentation, you expressed dissatisfaction with the role of the assembly in the European affairs of the Republic of Croatia and I agree with you there. Its role is well-defined and by law on the relationship between parliaments and the government, where the government actually plays a major role in the conduct of European policy but on the other hand I also think within this legal framework which can, of course, be subject to change. There are ways that the assembly could be more participatory in European affairs. One way to do it is to put ourselves on the agenda of the plenary assembly, so that citizens can see such a debate, more European issues. Here we are now received or not received, but we have received a positive technical report on Schengen, and let's say that the matter may have been discussed here in more detail, not just the technical part, but the political part that speaks of certain shortcomings, particularly regarding judicial reform and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167488	Thank you, colleague Klisovic. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167489	I couldn't agree more with you. So the fact that we have certain objections and they're always the same to each other. So if the Committee of Conflict of Interests for the position of Prime Minister Plenkovic must seek protection in GRECU, it is a disgrace to the Republic of Croatia. If you get a warrant from a state institution to file papers, you have to file papers. In America, you get a court order and tomorrow you go to jail if you act like our government treats an institution that has legal authority. Look at the state we live in, and we'd like to go to Schengen, we'd all like to go to Schengen because that's the part where we belong and where we want to belong, but we also have to respect the standards that apply there, not only in words but in life. When you get a request from the commission you have to meet it, he was an ordinary citizen under quotes ordinary or prime minister of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167490	Thank you, colleague Maras. Replica number two, fellow Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167491	Thank you, colleague Maras, for the compliment you said I was informative, my wife always complains that I'm not informed enough, so I'll say I am. As far as this use of the assembly is concerned, I think all the groups from the European Parliament have come well from both the public and the socialists and the Democrats and everyone else, and the responsibility of your party and my party is that of 2019. The Croatian state or Zagreb as the capital has no serious conference centre, and we are like a tourist country. As for my colleague Shuice, I didn't notice this on the board when we confirmed that anyone was against, like, 10 for, five abstentions. And lastly, and not least, I agree with you, however, and today's assembly and our debate and the amount of registered colleagues say how much interest it really is in European affairs. On the Committee on European Affairs and you have witnessed several times, people who are interested come, often not many, come some who are not members of the board, all are invited to talk. Only in this way can we really influence European.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167492	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167493	As far as your wife's sphere of interest is concerned, she and I are probably not the same. So I'm satisfied with what I'm interested in hearing, and she's possibly unhappy with that sphere of interest, so that's on the other hand. Second of all, I think everyone's invited to the assembly, but not to the councilroom, it's nowhere to be found. So you put the inscription up, the price, the bar code, how much the Croatian Parliament costs. And I'm saying here's where I'm going to be sitting in Tajani, Berlusconi, Wolf and that company. So I don't want the Croatian Parliament to open up to party meetings that way. And that's what we have to fight. As for the abstention of Shuicu, it's like you were against it. So if they were ten abstentions, they wouldn't get confirmation. And as for the congressional center, I started the convention center, unfortunately, you didn't finish it, near the Welsh, now, unfortunately, a year will be too late, but we'll have a wonderful convention center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167494	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I think you've touched the right subject, which is renting a meeting. I think that shows how little we appreciate ourselves. Because the next thing you know, other than these unspeakable characters like Tajani you mentioned who's gonna be sitting here, who'd rather join Dalmatia and Istria, not just what we can expect, maybe the HDZ Congress or the Progressives, or I don't know something third. I guess we've now opened a meeting hall for sale, so what people do here is here, whoever can pay in what we like to call a temple of Croatian politics to do bananas, festivals and so on. So that's what we burned to? Well, that shows how much we appreciate ourselves as a state. In this assembly, elected people should be seated by Croatian citizens. Over. Point. Everyone is welcome in the assembly, thank God we have other halls in which it can be done without a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167496	Replication response. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167497	I couldn't agree more with you. The message of HDZ is the state is ours and the state is us, but that's not true. Against that, we all have to fight it, to say in principle and actions, I'm sorry that the HDZ colleagues tried for a few days to justify this procedure, so I was uncomfortable when I listened yesterday, I believe that Mrs. The head also, when she claimed that Denmark had done the same thing, but yesterday they sent the deficits to Nova TV and they said no, it is not possible for us to rent a large council hall, that it may be possible to get a hall for, for some reception, etc., but a large council, it is not rented. We have come down to the fact that we have a representative body, where citizens or their representatives should enter for the HDZ party meeting, so people, I think that sounds illogical and incredible to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167498	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras, the information I provided came from the European People's Party, so please don't say anything wrong, please listen to me, I always listen to you, no matter what you say, this year's great foreign political success has led the governments with HDZ. As far as the Committee on European Affairs is concerned, I think that what you have not mentioned, and it is very important that you bring us together with the other parliaments, that our Parliament is one of the 8 European parliaments that decides on the most important issues or persons who will represent us in some of the European institutions. And it's true what you mentioned to Mrs. Devereaux. I'm telling you that there was no opposition from either of your party members, and it's true that at the vice president's session here he is present who is chaired by your colleague, Hajdash Doncic, has raised his hand for what you're always talking about, so please, colleague Maras, as far as the collapse of this institution is concerned, I think you're giving your pain. Every day. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167500	Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167501	Thank you very much. Ha, unlike you, ma'am. The head, obviously you when Plenkovic says something, you, on your head, defend it after that. So, there is a possibility that me and my colleague Hajdas Doncic disagree in some things, which is controversial, so don't judge HDZ and Plenkovic as they should be. As far as the information is concerned, I'm going to say one more time, what Mrs. Poirot said. The head of the past few days isn't true. If she was fooled by EPP, I don't care. If you trust your colleagues, pass on that information as if it were correct, and they end up being false and guilty, so it's not my responsibility, you were telling the truth, Mrs. Poirot. Head and, if you don't mind, then what can I tell you next? As far as Mrs. Devereaux is concerned. I am once again saying that the profit of EUR 5 million is possible, and the vote has been abstentioned as a vote against, that there have been 10 abstentions. Shuca would not have been proposed by HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167502	Thank you. That's what we're done with the replicas on your exposure. The next individual debate is the debate of colleagues, colleagues of Klisovic, and here is counterpart Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167503	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I must say that the Committee on European Affairs is one of those committees where MPs should come and try to overcome party differences and act really in the country's interest and what we do there has a reflection on Croatian status and position within the EU. So the consensus should be one feature of the committee's work, the board president, I really must admit, trying to achieve it whenever he can and I thank him for it. Likewise, because of the restrictions Mr Maras mentioned, so the Law on the Relations of the Government and HS, we are not able to discuss the positions of the Republic of Croatia on certain ministerial councils, simply rather than get them out of the loop. But we can't even discuss all these views, but we're really not competent enough to discuss technical details in various areas. But what we might be able to choose are certain topics of particular interest, especially those that have a prominent political aspect and discuss on this committee in order to bring a little closer to the public to the EU and what the Republic of Croatia is doing in the EU, especially those of particular interest to the Croatian public. One of these topics is, which I also called on Prime Minister Plenkovic to discuss with the European Council, to discuss the future of the EU in our committee, it is possible in a closed format to really agree on what the Republic of Croatia wants from the EU, because the future of the Republic of Croatia really exceeds both one party and one government, regardless of the government, and this perception, this vision should be long-term. We can have one quick debate on the board that everyone will say three sentences and it actually has no impact on reality. I would like a debate that would end up with some working paper that could be delivered to the government, so that the government sees what MPs think about it, not only as MPs, but as parliamentary parties think, because there are representatives of all Croatian citizens here, and I think that they can only bring some idea of what the citizens want with the EU in the future. We know that Juncker had his own 5- scenario book, we weren't happy with either of those five scenarios, but we somehow failed to produce a clear or articulate a clear Croatian vision, what the Republic of Croatia wants from the EU and how the Republic of Croatia sees itself in such an EU, and that would be somehow a political direction for each government no matter who leads it to continue working in the EU and how it will position the Republic of Croatia in the EU. So here I call on us to try to hold such a debate once more and not just once or twice, and to end such a debate with some document, it would be an ideal declaration of HS or something, but there is enough work paper that could allow the Government with the ideas of the MPs to see further developments in the EU. Also what I am not satisfied with, I am not saying that it is a mistake of the board or the chairman of the board, it is the role of the committee in preparing the EU presidency. I think that the board is kind of neglected there, in the HS we have established an organisational committee where more or less civil servants are employed in HS, including the secretary of our committee, but in that politically content sense, I don't think the committee is involved enough in the preparation, and the committee could also play a good role, especially in selecting topics that would be discussed in the form of conversations who... some other discussion with other parliamentarians because if we want to leave a trail and encourage some topic in the EU, now is the right time to start such a debate, it is always a slippery ground, it carries its risks that the matter does not go the wrong way, but I think it is better to be perceived in the Union as a constructive element that recognises the problems of this moment and wants to talk about them, rather than going to some Zierarian variant where we will discuss topics that are well known and we will not make any mistake and simply the Republic will be assessed as a good chairman. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where we fill in the form, less, a little less content. In order for the content to be fulfilled, I think it is not enough to have just the organisation of the board and the civil servants of HS who participate in it, discuss, propose, but to include the committee itself, especially the chairman of the committee in such discussions and debates, and I think that the president of the Committee on European Affairs should be part of a broader structure run by the government, preparing for the EU presidency, then HS would be given the importance that all calls, either on the other side of Mark's square or on this side of Mark's square, and when concrete situations arise, then simply the chairmans of the board or representatives forget and whether a representative from your party comes in as in this case. So, one width I think should be shown here because the EU presidency is something that we as a state have to show ourselves, not one, only one government. And as for renting a assembly for the needs of other people, I also believe that HS as a state institution is the bearer of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and, in that sense, deserves a special priority, especially this hall in which we pass laws, in which it is decided on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and on behalf of the citizens or the people, so that I do not think HS should be HS d.d. either. registered in a commercial court for renting or renting, to which we otherwise oppose. This situation may not be the same for the Assembly less of these halls where various types of meetings can be organised, not only political groups, but also NGOs and we have had various kinds of presentations and I think it is also good that citizens have access to HS, that they have access to its premises, including working rooms, but somehow we all experience this room as a central room that makes HS, it is always in the media as a Parliamentary so, symbol HS and in this sense we need to hold more to the dignity of this institution which, as I say at least, is the holder of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167504	We have five replicas on your exhibit. First is counterpart Maras, followed by colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167505	This Assembly colleague Klisovic also has the symbolism, when you come out, unfortunately which in practice is not realized, and that's what we should all be working on in the future to bring back a little influence, and then maybe there would be more representatives in the assembly, the debates would be different because when you go outside the assembly you see a painted ceiling floor, under the motto that the only sky is above HS. Unfortunately, you can't see that in practice, and in particular you can't see when in this way, pretty cheap for 5,000,00 EUR, so it could be any one of these cracks I've paid from Brussels to pay what they have paid there and so we let, in that way, that, that this assembly of ours commercializes, turn into money, that's something I don't think we should be given.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167506	Thank you. Here's my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167507	Yes, of course, commercialising shouldn't be, but when I talk about the integrity of the Assembly and HS as a carrier, the state institution that holds the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, then it's not just going to be a matter of commercialization of this Chamber, it goes to the quality and way of discussion that we have in this House, so to us MPs, when we're working from the Parliament to the asylum and the laughter, then we certainly don't contribute ourselves to the dignity of this institution and what it really represents, so in that sense I invite everyone not to do so from the Assembly, I will always become in my debates, try to be competent and represent the citizens in the way they want to do it, and not to represent the assembly into reality show to have a good time, for that they will turn commercial channels, and here they want to hear serious debates about their lives and their futures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167508	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Klisovic, what I would like to add to your presentation, I think that you are right when you say that several of the representatives should be involved in the discussions we have on the board is a disappointing reflection of other working bodies that should be involved in the assembly of our work programme, but also in giving opinions, suggestions and participation in the rest of the debate, which, therefore, depends on their competences and depending on the subject of which members are involved. So I think that we are very, very, very sorry because European affairs are taking over everything, so segments from the competence of all committees, and that is why it is very important that they participate as well. On the other hand, I think you mentioned the initiatives well on some plenary debates, but we'll just draw attention to Rules of Procedure, Art. 65th, which says that the Committee on European Affairs, among other things, proposes to the president of HS, to hold a debate on the position of the Republic of Croatia for a meeting of the European Council, so it is within the competence of the Committee and we can do so, perhaps something to think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167510	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167511	Thank you very much. I agree with you, colleague Hajdukovic. But we are all aware of one way whenever you propose a quality topic that is of public interest, and it is a little politically sensitive to the ruling one, they usually put it there somewhere at the end of the working time when there is no more power in the council, and even less in the citizens that, to follow such a thing, so that all together gets their own trivialized and negative effect. So, I think it's bad, but that the board can really do this more and more actively participate, I think that and here I think that this is what we're going to do, at least on our part, we can suggest, call, and if we get most of the board well, if we don't get most of the board, then democracy can go back to math without content, which is unfortunately damage, but here we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167512	Thank you. The next replica of fellow Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167513	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with you, colleague Klisovic, with almost everything you have said, but we are all invited to do so, not just members of the European Committee. So we have really great debates there, and most of it is concluded by consensus, so proposing thematic sessions, one of which we, you remember, have held on to the topic of the future of Europe. It is always welcome, you yourself are also a witness to barely collect the quorum, we simply all need to work together to make European themes, today when we are a full member of the EU, not only present to Croatian citizens, but also to benefit and our membership as a tool for what we all want or want in this EU accession process.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167514	Thank you. Here's my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167515	Thank you very much. I agree with you, fellow Milosevic, and I must admit that we will try and, from the opposition, further contribute to the constructive work of the board because the board has another role to play besides the classic one prescribed by the laws and Rules of Procedure. He has an educational role to play, however, to bring a little closer to Europe and European issues to Croatian citizens, and therefore it is good to have high-level visits that sometimes drive interest, especially Commissioners, and it is good to have cameras present so that citizens may be able to get into these topics, feel these topics, and perhaps ask questions or ask their representatives to discuss these issues more in the assembly. So far, we are getting from citizens usually questions about their lives, and they are related to Croatia, but here, why don't the students ask if we can and can participate in student exchanges, how we can get scholarships easier, what Croatia can do so-called. The Youth Guarantee Fund? Some things like that, but in order for people to realize that this is happening, they have to hear it. I can get it from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167516	Thank you. Next replica, Comrade Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167517	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kola Klisovic, we are ideological on the opposite sides, it will probably continue to be so, but that is fine, it shows the plurality of our society, but in your debate you mentioned something that I think all parliamentary representatives can agree on, and that is the need to strengthen the role of Parliament, and primarily this Committee on European Affairs in defining some European policies. What I would add to that is that most of it is defined by the law that we've passed. However, relations between the government and the parliament on European policy. So it may be in our hands after this period of membership to see if we have to change things, strengthen them. I think we have a parliament unlike others who have something to say about European politics and that's okay, but maybe some things I can certainly improve, but [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's up to us to do it here in the Parliament. [[Intruder: Comrade Stier, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167518	Here's my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167519	Thank you very much. You're absolutely right, so that, the law gives a framework, even restrictions looking from this perspective of the Parliament, unlike that perspective when you're in executive power in the government then he kind of looks better, guesses... and in fact, various countries have set up this balance differently between the executive and the legislative authorities in European issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, yes, we could, and it might be a good idea for now next year when we enter it, to make perhaps a list of topics that are of particular interest and to also hold thematic sessions that would end with a particular document, whether it is directed to the Government, whether it is directed to the public on the Committee's views on important European issues. I say, we are not able to discuss all the views that come to our attention because we do not have that expertise either, and unfortunately we do not have any co-workers in this House who may, on our behalf, be more detailed in such papers, given their complexity and manyness, but at least to make some selection and see where the Assembly Committee can contribute to formulating European policies in a way to send his proposal to the government. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Klisovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167520	And the last replica of your presentation by your colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167521	Thank you. In your debate, you well warned or recommended that it would be good to focus on some topics of interest for the Republic of Croatia, to discuss on this committee, to discuss here and here in the assembly and to strengthen the position of our representatives in European bodies through the declaration and decision here in parliament and to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We in the HSS and I personally believe that one of these topics that should be discussed together and focused on it and the implementation of the common agricultural policy because the fact that the old members, the large members, Germany, France, Italy dictate the pace and that these are often not in favour of our Croatian agricultural producers. In particular, I mean the implementation of land policy, ownership of state agricultural land, we believe that for another 3 years we need to stay, that our agricultural producers have the chance, means not foreigners, and that such a declaration would strengthen the position of the Ministry of Agriculture in the negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167522	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167523	Thank you very much. You are right fellow, and you know, agricultural policy is one of the most important policies in the EU, and not to say that it is a policy with the largest budget in the EU, so it would not have had such a budget if it were not so important for EU citizens, and countries that have managed to push and understand the importance of these policies have a much better situation in terms of EU support on a national basis than their citizens. So I think it's a good place where a Croatian farmer, a Croatian farmer, any person who lives on agriculture or is included in a food chain, could see better and more clearly how the EU through its mechanisms and money can help him in his daily work. Now they kind of experience it too far, they get overpriced, they have to pay consultants to build projects and programs, it's all expensive for us so inaccessible. Yeah, you're right, maybe we should bring the people closer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167524	Thank you. And now on behalf of the rapporteur, colleague Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167525	Thank you, Chairman, so allow me, in the end, a few sentences just and a subject like this in conclusion. Well first of all, today's brief debate and the number of clubs and parliamentary representatives involved actually points out on the one hand that it is not an excessively large interest in these topics, our European topics, I stress ours. As is the level of some parliamentary representatives on information about how the EU institutions function even in the functioning of the Croatian Parliament within the EU. So, what do you expect from our citizens if this one doesn't understand how the EU works if some MPs haven't studied it until the end. All of this is available in all languages, thank God and the Croatian one today on the Internet, so there is no excuse for anyone who wants to discuss and participate in these discussions between us and the committees, etc., and there is not enough information about how things really work. I think you will all agree, there is nothing more complex in human history in terms of governance than the EU. So, since I was 19 years old, I've been dealing with various levels of governance, and now in the last three years that I've been chairing this committee, I have to tell you that learning and getting to know the EU really guarantee that nothing that has included people, nations, so peoples and states has ever been more complex to manage. And we should be aware of that, too, if, and I think that we are largely determined to be EU members, I will come a little later on and on why I think today with all the challenges that this is absolutely good and important for Croatia, but therefore we must respect these facts. I stress here that because on the one hand we all have and I think it is right regardless of political differences, we have the urge therefore that Parliament participates more in the debates and that is good. We are doing it beyond the borders of Croatia. So, national parliaments, or we, not only members of the Committee on European Affairs, participate in many forums and discussions at the national parliament level, and the topics are European. It is on the one hand, however, in order to maintain any effectiveness of the Union itself, it is of course and logical that governments, ministers, government presidents dominate, do not just think about the council now. So, when you look at this complexity on the one hand, so you have a commission, a parliament, and then you have a council where the prime ministers sit and then you have the council of ministers and then you have national parliaments, so regardless of the genius of public communication today from social networks onward, it's really not easy to get all together, I think that one of the challenges for this commission and all of us in the future is to get closer, not only to how the EU works this and what the benefits of the Union are to the citizens, but also to the issues that concern all of us. I will count several, so with all EU imperfections for a number of reasons that I have said when you look at the challenges facing each Member State, but also in front of the EU, you want to talk about security, migration, what we are looking at as far as migration from the Middle East is concerned, it is only a superlait of what is coming in view of the demographic projections of Africa and climate change. If you want to talk about climate change, and also social economic development or movements, I think we will agree entirely on the basis of the arguments that EU membership provides an incredibly better opportunity to resist all these challenges, not to mention the problems facing Europe as a whole, not just in front of EU Member States. That's one thing. As far as Croatia itself is concerned, I mentioned in that opening part, and this is evidenced by the demographic movements of individual countries in the Western Balkans, and far from membership, negotiations such as Northern Macedonia have not started. Northern Macedonia has lost 25% of its population over the past 10-15 years. So when someone says that membership in the Union is the reason why someone left Croatia, it is absolutely not true. On the contrary. With full conviction, membership in the Union enables and brings Croatian tools to combat the outflow of young, ambitious, not so young and all others towards the greatest most powerful, not only European but some of these and world economies more effectively, but it is up to us, starting with this assembly, so the Croatian Government, which we choose here because to use these tools. And I don't just think about European funds, there's a lot of tools, and I wasn't aware of them until the last three years I've been in European affairs. So, European funds are important, I would like to, and I believe that the Croatian government, this Croatian government, will focus more on the private sector for the next seven years' perspective. I will remind Poland is the only EU member state, I think the only European state that has not been in recession for the past 10 years, among other things, because they have been using European funds effectively, dominated by the private sector, not the public sector, in the use of these European funds, and they play pretty well by the rules of the game, which in the 1990s, '91s. We've taken over, which we've taken over. We still haven't accepted that there are rules of some game, market economies, and there we are now a little bit of that spin in a circle, and there we're going to have to make a simple all together in this House of Decision. So, guys who were world champions didn't play hand, football is played by the rules of the game, and when you play hand, then the judge takes the ball. As for these tools provided by EU membership, I will say that it is important for us also because of our neighbouring BiH and Croats in BiH, this tool of membership and what this membership provides, it can very much help to strengthen the position of Croats in BiH, for the long term, to actually survive our nation in BiH, but also to help the whole of BiH. This is where the EU has to say it openly, has significantly failed. Since the US has withdrawn from BiH, there has been a lot of this, various kinds of commissioners and BiH have come, unfortunately not that it has moved forward, but unfortunately it has actually gone backwards, and at the end of the day membership and the perspective of membership, and therefore I think it is right not only for HDZ, but also for the vast majority of this assembly and all Croatian political parties to support that all countries so-called. The Western Balkans have a clear perspective in the EU and that as soon as we prefer to join the NATO alliance on the road. NATO's alliance has entered Albania, Montenegro has entered, so we expect northern Macedonia as well, and we think it is good and right. I could say a lot more, however, I would just like to conclude that what today is the EU's imperfections, regardless of the size of certain Member States, lies in this Croatian Parliament as well as in how to improve this functioning, starting from ourselves to how better and more effectively to use Brussels and how it will actually establish bodies of procedures that will be more efficient. I am among the last to ever defend any bureaucracy and bureaucrats, so I will not, nor intend to defend bureaucrats sitting in Brussels. Someone will say, fellow Maras often, with high wages, but that's the least important. What's more important, which is that what doesn't have to be done doesn't need to be transferred to that same Brussels, so you don't defend bureaucrats at any level sitting there. Too often now traveling these three years I hear and see that across the EU in a lot of Member States, in some not, switching for some internal political problems and things responsibility somewhere out there to... You should be correct, you should say these are our responsibilities, these are our responsibilities that we have done starting with this assembly to make Croatian citizens live better, to stay in Croatia to see for themselves and their family perspective here in Croatia. And EU membership, believe me, exclusively brings benefits and tools that we can do best in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167526	We have six replicas on your exhibit. He is the first colleague of Klisovic and after him, a colleague of Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167527	Thank you very much. You have shown your fellow Milosevic that he is of little interest to the representative for European affairs, which is unfortunately true. As though today’s presence is bearing witness to this, even though today’s presence is relatively good in relation to the presence of other subjects and other laws. However, I think it is a reflection of the overall state of society and the interest of our society in European topics. And that is why I sometimes feel that we have fought to join the EU, we have entered the EU, but it has not yet entered Croatia. And in this context, perhaps the Assembly should also somehow contribute to the EU's more entry into Croatia, perhaps it would be good and suggestive to give public services, HINA, HTV, I don't know, to the Croatian radio to more address the topics of European, European debates give us more insight here in Croatia, inform us as well as events in the capitals of the EU you know. We often reject reports from Belgrade and Sarajevo but we don't get from Berlin and Paris what's going on in Stockholm or I don't know Helsinki. That might be the same one...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167528	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167529	Yes, I agree with my colleague Klisovic, but we too need to know what we want for ourselves and for our citizens, what our goals are. So I entered politics in 2011 and I listened to Croatia's goal is to join the EU, excellently, and now we're already six years members. Now, what we need, and starting from this High House, to conclude what our goals are in the EU and how we will achieve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167530	Thank you. Next up's a fellow Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a fellow Milosevic you have rightly pointed out that by joining the EU Croatia has actually strengthened its positions, it has also received new opportunities to develop its policy towards neighbours, towards Southeast Europe, but you have also openly and sincerely shown that there are restrictions and wrong assessments of the EU, especially towards BiH, but also this last lack of decision to open negotiations with Macedonia and Northern Macedonia. I think that next year during the Croatian presidency there will be a summit with countries in the area, there may be an opportunity to open up if there is a need to redefine the enlargement process, but that this perspective is for those who deserve it and who meet the requirements. In that respect, I think that today should be said that she was not happy with the Council's decision not to open for now...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167532	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167533	Thank you, fellow Stier. We agree, therefore, that it is simply evident that we will need to reform something in terms of at least foreign policy decision-making and that full consent if the EU wants to be defined in an external political sense and an active role will have to be different. It is not acceptable, although I know that it is difficult to avoid a few times, but that local elections in France determine whether northern Macedonia will start negotiations, and even less acceptable arguments from Paris, which is that here first we will discuss the future of the EU and we will conclude that we will reform. It's all great, we all agree, but I hope it won't last as long as these objections we haven't even opened with Northern Macedonia. I hope, then, that we will still find what we want and how we want the EU for ourselves and for our children, and in the meantime, I hope that these negotiations will continue and end as long as they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167534	Thank you. Next up is my colleague Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Milosevic, you are right, you have also looked back at the final presentation of what we have heard here today, which is devastating from some colleagues who have said they simply know nothing about the functioning of the EU, but they do not know anything about the functioning of their own committee on which they are sitting. I am so surprised that they do not know what the priorities of the Presidency of Croatia to the European Union are, what has been talked about countless times. Equally, European topics are our themes, these are not topics that occur elsewhere, somewhere far away, but the citizens of the Republic live with these topics. The used European funds, which are now at 70% of the projected funds, is therefore all that the Prime Minister is talking about and has introduced a new reporting practice after the end of each meeting of the European Council. But unfortunately, these topics are falling into another plan and they're overshadowed by that day-to-day policy, and obviously they haven't reached anyone, and I think you can change that, too, as board president.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167536	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167537	Yes, fellow Glavak, you said it yourself, and I mentioned it more than once today, and that is, that is, the meaning of HS, and that is not only a debate but everyone who has a desire to participate not only in the debate, that something and, and suggests. So, I personally believe in, in confrontation and debate, but first of all in arguments, we often listen to in the Croatian Parliament discussions that are not based on arguments, I am absolutely sure, and I think that we need a lot more everyone together to believe in Croatian citizens and Croatian people in these judgments, therefore they know the arguments they recognize, hear the arguments and understand the arguments, regardless of the people, the parties differ, we have different worlds and that is all right, but let's not underestimate those in whose name we are sitting here in the sense that they know the established arguments and, and, and concrete goals, the results that should result from some political action, and therefore we are all at the end of the day here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167538	Thank you. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167539	Thank you very much. Mr. Milosevic, in your discussion of the final recognition and desire and that the committee is working and being more active in the future and that is our goal, our goal and our intensity of everyone here in HS and as far as HS is concerned, perhaps we could reach some conclusion and, and ask for a slightly greater role HS in this whole story because discussing visits like this without some concrete political input sometimes seems pointless. Let's just say that HS draws a conclusion or a strong support committee if that is the state's position, of course, that, to Northern Macedonia, on its path and Albania, these are political things that would be very much echoed throughout the EU, regardless of what other countries think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167540	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167541	Thank you. Well, look, three sentences just, first of all, we're pretty strong, strong in words, and we're weak in pieces, generally that, this one, that one, that one, that one should change. Under no. 2. It is relatively difficult, at least from the HS position in terms of European issues, to penetrate our committee into the media, e.g. So what is not known is what we wrote on behalf of the board certainly 3-4 letters to all key persons or institutions in Brussels when it comes to the opening of negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. Both this and not now, not now, no, not assuming how they ended and how they went, and, and this, these letters, however, are all the efforts of the Croatian administration, so the Governments headed with the Prime Minister and I think all the political parties in this HS are in this exactly in this enlargement and effort to provide perspective, and there are no choirs about it and that will result. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167542	A colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Milosevic, so it is normal for the government to coordinate the work and policies within the EU, and you have also told them because of the real time in which this is happening and because of the complexity of the topic, it is often impossible to conduct some broad debate. What we should, and may be on the trail of colleagues Klisovic, choose some topics and discuss them further, we did so with the EUR which was a good topic, but to the truth about and for the sake of the truth I must say, when we tried to discuss some other topics also was mostly of interest and debate, which is unfortunate, I am speaking first of all by colleagues and colleagues. And, of course, as far as membership in the region is concerned, we agree absolutely, and you and I, I think, the absolute interest of the Republic of Croatia that the whole region as soon as it is a member of the EU as a long-term guarantee of stability, it is extremely important to us, I am glad that the Committee has taken this kind of commitment and I have been involved in that and around Northern Macedonia, and we should do it in such a way at least by myself. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167544	... Cola Hajdukovic. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167545	So I think that you are this colleague Hajdukovic witness, I am trying to lead our committee as democratically as possible for a number of reasons and for personal convictions, every time a colleague suggested something, I think we went out in this direction, in this direction to meet, that we not only allowed the debate, which times was also a debate that actually had nothing to do with the work of our committee, but also thematic sessions and everything else. Therefore, regardless of who is sent to the European Committee, the majority who is the opposition, who is in power, I think that there is a dominant consensus and I think it is important in this assembly and I am sure that we will continue to act so together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167546	Comrade Squirt, final replica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167547	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's fellow Milosevic, in your debate, you mentioned Poland, first of all, that this is a country that shouldn't be a model for respecting some European values, but in using EU funds we should, because here in the Republic of Croatia is, today even 80% of public investment is funded from EU funds, that's good, of course we're building roads, gardening on local self-government, but on the other hand, we've created one tremendously high exposure to these public investments that will be financed in the future from EU funds, and we know that a new programming period is coming that we're going to need to reduce these public investments a lot more, that there will be more co-financing, and I'm saying whether we're going to put on, I'll say, in one basket, and it's never good, and I agree with you that there's going to need to strengthen the little and private sector to make more use of these funds, and it still generates some extra value, and I'm going to the public investment, and I'm sure, but I'm going to the public investment, and I'm sure, but I'm going to the public investment, and I'm going to say, but I'm going to say it. [[/Agreement: Thank you, fellow Welders.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167548	Please welcome fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167549	Two sentences, first of all, about Poland, this one I think is both connected and cannot be completely separated from this as you wanted, but otherwise I, my personal position is that where democratically elected authorities are this I would like to leave it to the nations of these countries to evaluate, evaluate how they function, how much they respect what values and what the worldview is, I think we should concentrate on what is happening today in the Republic of Croatia and on our values and where we are going and where we're taking people for the next 10, 20, 30 and more years. As far as this multiannual financial framework is concerned, I think it's clear that this topic will remain during our presidency, I think it's a good opportunity not only for the government, but also for all of us, so through those 6 months, we have some effect in that sense, and I said, at the very beginning, that those in the West who are net investors more understand that their benefits in cohesion and cohesion funds are also because part and their economic growth that is weak depends on what happens Next year with cohesion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167550	Thank you, thank you, fellow Milosevic. This concluded the discussion on the report on the work of the European Affairs Committee in 2018, which was markedly in comparison with 2019, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167551	Report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for 2018 The applicant is the European Affairs Committee. Discussion closed, so I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that 96 votes are unanimous for the accepted report in the text of the applicants.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167552	We continue with the following item of the agenda, which is: - The report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2018 The applicant is the Committee on Presentations and Appeals on the basis of Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. If the rapporteur wishes to provide an additional explanation. Her arrival means she wants to, which means our colleague, Ana Maria Petin, is the chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167553	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament once a year, as the Vice-President said in accordance with Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly shall provide a report on its work to the Croatian Parliament in order to inform the representatives of this assembly of the observed irregularities of violations of the legal provisions, as well as the rights of citizens in the proceedings before the authorities of the state administration and legal persons with public authority. In addition, through the work on the presentations and complaints of citizens, this committee points to a meeting of violations of the law and other harmful phenomena of broader importance and proposes to take the necessary measures to remove them and also proposes through the authorised bodies to examine the basis of the concepts, complaints and proposals, and accordingly the need to take the law of the measures. The report on the work of the Committee shall constitute a combination of the work and statistical data of the work of the Committee by presentations and complaints over a period of one year. During 2018, the Committee received and processed a total of 258 plays and complaints of written content. The number of written performances and complaints of citizens and citizens in this reporting period is lower by 103 cases and by almost 29% respectively compared to 2017 in all areas. A number of these are 150 new performances and complaints, while 108 cases relate to previous years or to repeated performances and complaints and their additions, which are reached even in 2012, and are again addressed to the Committee in 2018. Of the 258 submissions and complaints, 121 were from the area of justice and administration, 53 from the area of housing, municipal and property-law issues, 28 performances with social and health issues, and from the area of family protection, 28 areas in the field of labour and labour relations, and 25 other areas, as well as other submissions. The report itself gave you an overview and an analysis of the Committee's work across all areas, and all the performances are given. And now I'm going to give you a brief review and what our citizens are most complaining about. So, in the area of the judiciary and the board of directors, the largest number of presentations and complaints were received by the citizens of as many as 121. Citizens complained of violations of their rights and sought protection of rights, and the complaint allegations referred to the judiciary, the administration, the state's attorney's office, the police, the lawyers, the free legal aid and others. The main reason for addressing the citizens is the fact that the length of the proceedings is unreasonable, both judicial and administrative. And it is these complaints that draws attention to the fact that this committee, as a working body of the Croatian Parliament, cannot and must not interfere with the work of the judicial authority, and presents are referred to the competent ministry, which is not always satisfied with the sequence of which new complaints are repeatedly referred and require the measurement of the decision of the board in judicial or administrative proceedings, the filing of proceedings, the initiation of proceedings before the competent courts, etc. which is not the task of this committee. The submissions and complaints received were delivered by the Committee to the Ministry of Justice, and if they did not receive an answer within the legal time limit, more haste had been sent. Furthermore, from the area of justice and administration, the Committee has received and processed 30 performances and complaints, as well as repeated and anonymous representations from the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, municipal and county attorneys and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. Some complaints by citizens are about the allegations of illegality and irregularities in their work, the work and the conduct of the attorney's office for not taking action in relation to the criminal charges filed by citizens and legal persons, the lack of urgency in the work and conduct of municipal and county attorneys in specific cases. All these performances and complaints were delivered by the committee to the DORH, the Office of the State’s Attorney General and the USKOK and sent more rushes during 2018. The Committee also received and processed more than 10 performances and complaints from citizens on the work of the police and possible failures in the conduct of police officers in the conduct of police work and the excessive use of coercion funds. The complaints were also submitted by the citizens to the MUP and requested evidence and sent haste to the citizens. During the reporting period, almost 33 submissions were sent to the Committee, i.e. complaints about the work and conduct of the authorities of the state administration and the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government and other bodies with public authority, or citizens, expressed dissatisfaction with the work of individuals and institutions, warned of possible illegalities or irregularities in their work, sought supervision of work and sanctioning them and protection of their rights. Of these 33 performances and complaints, the Committee closed and processed a small number of complaints related to the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, with a request for housing care of the assignment of a housing loan and a request for assistance. Then 10 complaints from citizens related to the implementation of money, wages and pensions, and on debt to banks, as well as on the work of the Agency for the collection of debt claims. A number of repeated complaints by written and oral authorities related to the silence of the administration and the fact that because of the disputed conduct, this committee had sent a number of written rushes to the competent authorities in order to make decisions in accordance with their legal powers or to end the proceedings within a wide range of deadlines and to show themselves to the citizens and committees. It is noted that in 2018, the Committee sent a total of 253 rushes for the haste of the competent authorities. Others are often complaints related to housing, municipal and property issues. In the overall structure of the performances received, the complaints for the reporting period did not differ significantly from the previous years. The committee handled a total of 53 cases in which citizens complained of violations of their rights. Some of the citizens' problems with housing, emergency housing, renting apartments in state property, with long-term housing procedures, warned that the procedures lasted for years and with the restoration of houses, as well as individual objections and dissatisfaction with the renovation of the facility. In such cases, the Committee referred to the competent authority haste, requested hastening action to report and the complainants, but also to the Committee. I must point out this way that three cases of housing have been dealt with positively during this reporting period. A request for the housing of a five-member family from Knin, a request for the emergency housing of a six-member family from Ivanovec, and a request for emergency housing of a four-member family from Sesveto. A request from citizens related to the return of property in Kistanja has also been addressed since 2013 so that the construction of a new house in Kistanja in late 2018 is envisaged and according to the decision of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. The committee also received and processed complaints from citizens about illegal construction and illegal construction works on residential buildings by investors, endangering ownership and ownership rights of citizens. Appeals on the topic of municipal problems are related to the lack of municipal infrastructure, non-maintainment of municipal order and unclassified roads and non-maintainment of public areas, management of municipal waste, noise, air pollution, etc. The Board of Appeal provided the relevant authorities with units of local and regional self-government and to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning for the competent treatment. From the area of property law relations, in a small number of complaints received, citizens warned of the long-term process of solving property problems. It happens that procedures last years, and it rarely happens that exactly such procedures last for more than 20 years. The Committee forwarded such statements and complaints concerning property relations to the offices of the state administration in the counties and cities, depending on whose territory the real estate and the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia are located. From the area of pension and health insurance, social care and family protection during the reporting period, the committee received and processed 28 complaints in which citizens complained of violations of pension and health insurance rights, social care and family protection. In part of complaints from HZMO's jurisdiction, citizens warned of problems related to the recognition of early retirement rights, the retirement pension that was partially achieved abroad and the exercise of the right to an age pension. From the area of health insurance, citizens have warned of difficulties related to the exercise of the right to compulsory health insurance. In the area of social care and family protection, citizens expressed the need for certain forms of social protection, and addressed the Committee with written complaints and oral complaints because of the inability to exercise rights and services in the jurisdiction of social care. In these cases, the Committee most often addressed the competent social care centres. In most cases, the centres responded to the committee's requests, showed problems in the complaint and offered concrete solutions or financial assistance to the complainants. In 2018, the Committee received and processed 28 presentations or complaints of written content in which the complainants warned of infringements of labour rights in the state and public services and the private sector. The complaints were filed by officials, ministry officials and other state bodies directly or through the union, as well as by citizens. The Committee forwarded the submissions and complaints from this area to the competent authorities and also addressed the rushes if necessary due to the lack of evidence within a reasonable period of time. And the last area, which is the rest of the committee's fields, received and processed 25 plays and complaints from such areas in 2018. Most citizens complained about the behaviour of public service providers, the quality of services provided by public undertakings offering electricity supply, heat energy, gas, water and transport of passengers in public transport. All written statements and complaints in which natural and legal persons complained about the work and treatment of public service providers and others and requested the protection of their rights were forwarded to the committee for appropriate treatment, depending on the content of the presentation and complaints to the competent authorities and to the competent ministries, and provided some with more haste if they were deaf about our correspondence. And finally to sum up, during 2018 the Committee worked on a total of 258 items. During the reporting period of a total of 258 cases of written performances and complaints, the Committee accepted the evidence of the competent authorities for 227 or almost 88% of the cases. By the end of 2018, from the total number of replies received by the competent authorities, citizens were helped to achieve their rights and interests. 78 cases or almost 35% have been solved for their benefit. During the reporting period with citizens other than the regular mail, fax, e-mail or personal arrivals, the Committee also made direct phone calls. The majority of citizens’ questions were answered by telephone in direct contact and were consulted in the exercise of their rights in a total of 215 cases, and when the fact-finding was to be verified and determined, it was answered within a short period of time. In addition, the Committee accepted the interview of all citizens who asked to take their problems orally and subsequently referred them to the submission of a written submission to the committee or to the competent authority. All the written statements and complaints received were processed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and sent to the competent authorities for treatment or directly written to the applicants. This shall be notified to the applicants of the presentations and complaints or shall be directly responsible to the applicant of the presentations within 30 days. For his work, the Committee received 54 thanks from citizens for intervening their problems through competent authorities. This way I also thank the staff of the Committee as well as all members of the Committee for their cooperation and for their correct work on the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167554	Thank you, colleague. We have six replicas on your exhibit. He's his first colleague, Curaj, after him, a colleague of the Shkybols. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167555	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Petin. We have just one question, and you finally mentioned oral complaints or statements or phone calls, and it says it was 215, which means it's past these 258 objects, or some of them are contained, well. And what I just want to comment on as we did last year when we've been listening to this report again every other complaint, every other play comes from justice and administration. The other day we had a report on the state of the judiciary or the report of the President of the Supreme Court, and I think it's absolutely what we should pay even more attention to and put even more pressure on the one that we can do about allowing us more resources to deal with these cases, but also that citizens simply know who to address and have these...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167556	Thank you. Here's an answer, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167557	I'd like to thank the esteemed repatriate. So, 200 is recorded if every phone call is recorded, so 215 phone calls were sent to the board where our employees heard the issue and then sent our citizens to see whether they should contact the committee or directly to any institutions. And also for the judiciary, the most natural complaints in this area and what is important is that citizens are very difficult to accept, which is that the board cannot change a judicial decision and we have a lot of repeated complaints about the same verdicts because some citizens think that we can influence judges and a certain verdict that we can change, but they need to know that we simply can't and that it's not in our capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167558	Thank you. Here you go, pal. Here you go. After him, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167559	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Petin. It states during this reporting period that the Committee has sent 253 rushes for the haste of the competent authorities. I am interested in the fit back of the competent authorities and what kind of cooperation you have with the competent authorities. It means whether or not these competent bodies are. institutions where you send for haste treatment are they really acting hastily or obstructing your demands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167560	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167561	Thank you very much. So I can't say that institutions are obstructing our demands. Most of them correspond within the legal time limit, but of course there are cases where we have to send a few rushes. The most important thing is the items that extend over a long period of years and which are almost every time almost the same content, there are certain only small changes that we need to re-route to institutions to manifest themselves. Most of all, it's deafening, so I would say of such objects while in every new case, I have to say that institutions are manifest within the legal time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167562	Thank you. Next is counterpart Hajdukovic, followed by fellow Stričak. Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167563	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of the board president. So I'd just like to point out one fact, I'm no longer a member of the board I've been in a previous meeting, this committee is often misunderstood by the citizens, and his role is misunderstood just as the institution of the attorney general. And many times, in fact, the performances that come to the board, the committee can't affect them. These are complaints about judgments, these are different other disputes and similar things that the board simply cannot handle. The only thing the committee can do is listen to the citizens and guide them, possibly further where they can look for a solution to their problems, so that I also see this debate as enlightening in such a way that citizens and hear what the role of the board is, which are its competences and which complaints and concepts can be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167564	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167565	Well, that's right, I agree with you on that point because it is precisely these repeated complaints that relate most to the area of justice and that our citizens comment on the most frequent judgments and ask the board to take part or try to change that verdict to make them more satisfied. That's impossible because simply what you said to the board's task is something else entirely. As for the new performances, they are referred within the legal time limit and our citizens get a response to them, but if someone is unhappy with the answer from our institutions now, unfortunately, then there is no further position on the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167566	Thank you very much. My fellow Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167567	Thank you. My fellow Members, I believe that the committee is doing very well this part of it, and I have listened carefully to your presentations and noticed that even on the sidelines of the committee, some officials are not responding, so now if certain officials of state institutions are so boastful of the board and HS that they do not respond, we can imagine just how arrogant and rude they are to our citizens. The information that 35% of complaints and performances have been resolved for the benefit of citizens is one nice piece of information, or every third citizen, precisely because he reported to the board he received his answer or his case was solved. So I think it might be desirable that you hold a press conference sometime over the year, inform the citizens on the work of the Committee and their [[Intruder: Thank you...]] The possibilities. [[Intruder:...you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167568	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167569	Well, thank you very much, this is definitely a good idea that we're going to think about together and make a decision. Well, given the silence of the administration, there are the most complaints about this, then the citizens don't know who to turn to, so at the end of their complaints end up in our committee, that the institutions respond in time to the citizens and that citizens can get information directly from the institutions, then there would certainly be fewer cases on our board, but here's why we are here to forward their complaints further and then to influence the institutions to come to their answers anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167570	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167571	Thank you very much. Comrade Petin, I, too, want to commend the work of the committee in some way, and I have reported now that I am a little promotion of the possibility that our citizens and more address the committee in order to protect their rights and examine them, to examine the things that bother them, the HS should have on me, because we all as parliamentary representatives are getting some complaints, people are talking to us, etc., should have one service that would have just dealt with these things, regardless of whether it came to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, that any representative could have a committee or service that would check certain things and protect citizens if in some way his right was compromised. So I would go after it to strengthen that part and in some way be in a disposition to MPs who can't possibly do it alone. Thank you very much. [[Agreement: Thank you fellow Maras]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167572	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167573	Thank you very much. So I have to say that a lot of parliamentary deputies address the board directly, probably through direct communication with their citizens, come to, to some information or to ask them for, for certain services, to inform us how they can get information and this desired results in their cases, and also to say that we have a lot of complaints and performances that are sent from other committees here to HS, which ultimately pass on to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, so I have to say that we have good co-operation with all parliamentary representatives, as well as with all committees, and of course I call on all parliamentary representatives to, if they are interested or have enquiries from their citizens to address the Committee on Presentations and complaints.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167574	And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167575	Thank you very much. Here is another congratulation on the work of this committee, but it should be said that this committee is the number of complaints in a certain way an indicator of the state of society and through this is also creating the opinion of our citizens in relation to the government, the ministry and the competent institution, and your report shows that there is still a large number of complaints about the length of procedures, the quality of services, the slowness of the administration, and what particularly irritates the citizens, and I too, too, is the silence of the administration, and when you said that more than 230 rushes have been sent and because of the silence of the administration, it has to irritate us all and we have to say loudly against it, and it might be a good public announcement that these institutions and which most often do not correspond to our citizens because of this silence of the administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167576	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167577	Thank you very much. So I have to say that the administration's silence towards the committee depends on the subject being processed. Therefore, almost all and all ministries and institutions come at a certain time to not respond in time to the Assembly Committee, but in most cases we get their answers, so that we cannot be silent about the administration's awareness that now we should tell you that only certain ministries or certain institutions are not responding to our correspondence but simply depends on the subject and on the content of the presentation and complaints itself, as I have mentioned earlier, there are statements and complaints that have been extended since 2012 or 2013. where one of the same items is constantly being dealt with, and probably then there is a silence of the administration, given that it has already been answered several times.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167578	Thank you. I'm opening a debate, we have 3 registered clubs, the first is Stjepan Curaj, in front of the club of representatives of the CNS, here's your colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167579	I thank the esteemed vice president, respected colleagues and colleagues, so very briefly, more administratively, the administrative item of the agenda, but it can be read here, we saw a colleague mention as an indicator of the situation in society, and now what's good, what's a total number smaller for almost 1/3 of the items received, over 100 and exactly 103 items less, that can mean two things. First, to repair the situation in society, or second, that people lose faith or do not have faith in the purpose of making complaints and representations, including to this committee, and then the whole government. In my opinion, the truth is always somewhere in the middle. It is possible and likely that something can be repaired even though this is how my personal impression of what we heard, that again there are more complaints and notions of the work of the judiciary and of the administration, it is not so, again each other has come from... The same for the sector, however, I believe that some things are certainly better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we must not forget that there are probably fewer parties in the process as there are less and less interested parties and even fewer people who even file applications and see the purpose of it but may have left us and no longer live in Croatia. But anyway, there's a board of full potentials, what's said, fellow Strick said, we should do more, and that's what I said last year on this, to inform citizens in the existence of this committee that you can get as much information as possible, speed up some things, when we talk about the silence of the administration that's also mentioned, here's only in comparison for the sake of this, the Ministry of Civil Engineering introduced the Institute of Silence Administration when the building permits come out. If, in 15 days, public-legal bodies are not visible, they are considered to have accepted what is in the proposal for construction itself. And that's the way to go. 15 days of deadline, called-not reported, moving on. Here the silence of the administration means something else, we can't say that the net agrees or disagrees, but we can also force them to make certain repercussions come out. This means that if they did not report, that the basis of the request is probably correct or not correct, something should be meant. People need an answer, even if he doesn't. We have to give people an answer. Waiting is what's worst, which slows down and what's the cancer of our society's wounds especially when we talk about justice. So as I mentioned earlier in the replica, so other than 258 items, i.e. some 150 only new ones, there were over 200 oral conversations and I believe that it should certainly be on our pages but also a little bit of a campaign of information that people with number 01 4569 430 can just get such information or on mail bybpp@sabor.hr and send the same information. That's what I'm now taking the opportunity to tell the public. Otherwise, this time of reduction only to end with this, as regards this committee is also present in the report of the Ministry of Administration on complaints of behaviour and behaviour of civil servants, so in 2018. 269 of these were, which was about 11% less for the 2017 limb compared to 303, so it's also being recorded there, so obviously it's a trend and I'm going back to the beginning that maybe there are indications that things are being fixed or what I don't want to believe, and somehow the skeptic is telling me that maybe it's also not and maybe it's part of that statistic, and that they're losing some confidence in the institutions that they can change something with their complaint at all. Of which 33 are established, so somewhere around 14% when we talk about the results or statistics of the Ministry of Administration because it has its own mechanisms, we can only as a committee here, as a Parliament, so we don't know what's going on, we can speed up and we need and I think that we should also call citizens when it comes to the work of civil servants that they can send their complaints to the email of the complaint@government.hr. So you have for state, public service, complaints@government.hr here in the Parliament, odbpp@sabor.hr. And I call on all citizens on this path to actually report, to use their capabilities because in this way we get, one great tool, an excellent tool that can tomorrow be used to evaluate the work of these same officials, especially when we talk about civil servants, especially when we talk about justice and judges and judicial advisers. It can't happen that someone's been holding something in a drawer for 7 years, 10 years, and that some seemingly bizarre objects, breaking objects, delaying, delaying, and those are now examples I'm from my direct experience people close to me, as much as you want, and that's what gives us a bad picture of everything. And there are always exceptions to all those who honor their work, and we should thank the team for the exceptions. They're not all the same in the state administration, not two brothers are the same, so they can't be two people doing the same job and they need to be told clearly. To the one who does, to give him reward, to the possibility, and to follow, to record the basic complaints that are finally established and to thank those who do not do it, not to be all the same, worked, not working, the same salary we get because that's how we kill motivation, that's how we do what these citizens right now think of us as an institution and especially as a state administration. So this is an excellent tool that can be used, this statistics can really be used to further improve the work of the state services, the state administration and the general efficiency of the state itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167580	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the clubs, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167581	... Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The annual report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament for 2018, which we are discussing today, sums up the entire year's work of this committee and shows how and how many citizens actually use this institute to warn against possible failures, errors, irregularities or violations of constitutional rights by the authorities, units of local and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority and professional services. It should be noted that citizens' expectations for this committee are very often high and the powers themselves are limited and defined in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with Article. 107. However, the importance and role of this committee is greater because it tells us that citizens who address the Committee or the Croatian Assembly know and trust that someone in particular will help them. In the previous year, as we have seen reports, received and processed a total of 258 cases, 150 of which are new performances and complaints and 108 are cases from previous years, repeated performances and complaints and their additions from previous years ranging from 2012 to 2017 and which are addressed to the Committee in 2018. In 2018, the number of performances and complaints received by citizens in relation to 2017 decreased across all areas, namely 103 complaints were reduced. Of the 258 submissions and complaints, 121 were from the area of justice and administration, 53 from the area of housing, municipal and property-law issues, 28 performances with social and health issues, and from the area of family protection. 28 from the field of work and work relations and 25 items are other areas and other submissions with 3 items. On this occasion, and as a member of this committee, I thank all the employees of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Assembly for their well-worked work because they communicate almost daily with citizens, either by phone, by fax, by e-mail or even by very often personal contact. During this reporting period, the Committee held a session to discuss the performance of the characteristic content and, apart from written means, the Committee also made communication by telephone. On the largest number of citizens' issues, it is answered by telephone direct contact, namely, and each of these phone queries is recorded. Information was provided and citizens were consulted in the exercise of their rights in a total of 215 cases. The most oral address, inquiry and complaints of citizens concerned the slowness in the work of the judiciary and administration, the length of the proceedings, the non-response of the performances and complaints, etc., and such practice was in previous years. Finally, the annual report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals in 2018 shows how citizens are aware of their rights and how they confidently address the Croatian Parliament in cases where they feel that they have been abolished or discriminated on some of the grounds. Citizens rightly require more transparency and awareness in the work of the body of local and regional self-government, which we welcome, of course. And for all of the above, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167582	Thank you. And last on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The board presidents, colleagues and colleagues. So as my colleague said before me, it's about one administrative point, I don't want to list the entire statistics again, what I want to say and what I want to comment on, and I always do that when we're discussing this report, is that the report of this committee is a kind of lacmus paper in society. It is also similar when we discuss the report of the Ombudsman, and what if we look at what is left on the lacmus paper, in which color he reacted, is that in 2018 the largest number of cases in the field of justice and administration, so almost half of them are 47%. This continues to tell us that the judiciary and the administration and the judiciary are, above all, because most of the concepts and complaints refer to this, the big problem in our society, the problem we need to solve and we heard in the debate this week about some of these issues when the report of the Supreme Court president was discussed. As for the number of complaints, it is being reduced unfortunately year by year, I would not attribute it to the fact that the administration, the judiciary and the institutions are more effective, I would rather attribute it to citizens being desperate, that they no longer know who to turn to or simply lose their will, leave or raise their hands. Therefore, if you ask me this report is actually a shortcut but also a kind of alarm that happens in our society, we see from what all complaints come from, especially from which area and regrettable that in my experience at least as a member of the board, the committee has often been a shoulder for crying and much less someone who could actively help people who are talking to us. Fate, cases, stories you can hear on that board are really hard to listen to and let alone live through it all. You want to talk about trials that last decades, you want to talk about fraud, you want to really talk about police brutality, really, really, really a lot of things and a lot of bad stories and, unfortunately, a lot of other bad things in our society that are happening. I would also like to thank all the board members and members as well as professional services, continue to be at the service of the citizens even if they cannot be helped actively. Whenever possible, of course, it should and should be done and I would also like to make public the names of those officials of the institutions that do not correspond to the committee and I am pleased to hear that the majority still correspond within the legal time limit. The SDP representative club will support the Committee's work report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167584	Thank you very much. This concluded the discussion on the report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2018 and we will vote when the conditions are met. I'd also... The application, thank you, there's no free word application, so we're done with today's session. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Continuing the debate with point Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, second reading, P.Z. No. 659 will be on Wednesday, 30 October 2019 at 9 o'clock and 30 minutes. Thank you very much and goodbye. MEETING Interrupted at 12.19 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-25-0.u167585	Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2018 The applicant is the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, the debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 96 for, 2 abstentions, are accepted in the text of the applicants. We are now going to the 9th club that is the independent representative Damjan Vucelic. That's right, you have a club.
