ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147435	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work, but before I know it, I see a colleague of Petrov's here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147436	Dear President, I request a recess on behalf of the MoST Club of Independent Lists regarding the vote of confidence in the vice-presidents of this government and ministers. Today in Parliament he tries to present himself as an epilogue of affairs that has been shaking the government for months, and that won't happen, it simply isn't right for the citizens or for us. What is clear is that the government of the Republic of Croatia is the last 2nd. She was literally a front for the actions of people in that government who weren't even a bit honorable. In addition, they were changing at an insane rate, so I think neither we, let alone the citizens were able to track all of that and all of those affairs that were happening in the government. Today, we are expected to simply accept that this is the end of these affairs, that only the Government will continue to work on. Well, I think you should at least show a grain of decency and not participate in this. We will leave you with the light of the stage, play your show to the end, let it remain forever remembered who participated in the shame, who took part in the devastation of Parliament's reputation and we will not agree with the confidence of the new ministers and vice presidents and the only good news that can find us from the government is the resignation of the Prime Minister himself, or the resignation of the entire government. I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147437	The apartment will be approved, but before that, we have other colleagues and colleagues who are reporting. Dear colleague Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147438	President-in-Office of the Parliament, we are looking for a break to warn once again that this is not about the government's reconstruction but about the hiding of crime, the hiding of many, Kuštević and Maric, Plenkovic's close associates who are now staying in the government or near the government. Two days, unfortunately, we're listening to the Prime Minister talking about the successes, the results of the government's work, but then the question arises why, why did so many of the ministers have to leave? And they had to leave because of the guessing, because of the re-purpose of the land, because of the setting up of the competition, because of the expensive villas, because of Mercedes, because of the wealth, while the people of this country are digging through the containers, while the pensioners are living harder and every day the buses of young people are moving out of Croatia. At the same time, the Prime Minister says that this is not corruption, but that it is perception and that these are technical problems. So it indirectly actually protects corruption, and how could it not, when it was first involved in one of the biggest corruption affairs in history, which is the Borg affair. Why double the criteria on one side for ministers, and why double the criteria for the Prime Minister himself? It is clear to all of Croatia, to all citizens, to you, to all MPs why the ministers had to go. They left because of corruption and unfortunately this government is a corrupt, corrupt octopus that devours Croatia. For the citizens' best interests, it would be to discuss new elections and restore trust to citizens, and that is why today I will remind the representatives of the ruling majority of whoever protects and hides crime is also involved in criminal activities under Croatian laws. I call upon all MPs in HS who are not corrupt to leave the session of the Parliament and do not participate in this...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147439	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147440	...the crime scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147441	Time's up, thank you. Let's move on, MP, honorary representative of Anka Dark Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147442	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. As you were saying earlier, the session regularly ended on July 12th, the last point that was where a new relationship was chosen in the State Election Commission where HDZ has 4 members, and the opposition has 2. I was convinced when you agreed so much that together with the presidential elections we would have parliamentary elections, so I said okay, they agreed, we must always be a step better and a step stronger. But obviously, we won't have those parliamentary elections that soon. Otherwise, the prime minister announced refreshment, and when he announced the government's refreshment, that code deals with weather forecasts, so here we have hot days, so we'll have refreshments, so we'll have something else behind it, actually absolutely unserious. There are several business offices in Croatia, one saying of third happiness, another telling you the third time God helps you, and there are those who say that all bad things must take place for the third time, so you will vote on us today and the third government after the first bad, after the second bad Plenkovic government, today you will vote on the third bad Plenkovic government. And the message is stop frowning on yourself, stop frowning on us, stop frowning on this poor country, these poor citizens. The only thing that would be decent would be to call the election. Today you will again perform a play in which the Ministers will be elected, and this time we have a territorial division, so that some part of Croatia will not be cut off, and then a little Slavonia, a little Dalmatia, and how many ministers know about the portfolio anyway and anyway, it is not important to survive anyway, anyway, anyway, and it is only important for our current Prime Minister Plenkovic to survive and do the presidency. of 1. 1 to 1 July. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147443	The apartment will be approved. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147444	This is not a government reconstruction, this is a government destructure and this is one of the most corrupt governments in Croatia since the '90s. I'm looking for a break to [[I'm sorry, you're looking for a break?]] Well, clearly, I'm explaining [[- Yeah, then say it.]] It's clear to you as soon as I raised my hand. [[Intruder: Not clear.]] And Prime Minister Plenkovic does not save the government but saves himself in the front row, and then the HDZ, and the citizens who do, as they do. Because the ministers who have been removed can steal, they can cheat, they can lie, but they must not be followed by bad perceptions of citizens. And this HDZ is nothing different than Sanader's HDZ, and you see it every day. That's what citizens see and it's time to go to the election. Whoever of these candidates has accepted the minister's position today, that's the position the white figure has said nicely, they're just going to be statisticians, and they're not going to do anything. One of these white figures is Minister Pavic, who was removed to be promoted, the man who managed to get 740,000 signatures against himself, the man who destroyed the pension system, now put another man who was doing it in complete with him. And whoever raises a hand for this government today, let it be clear to him that his own interest, interest, will remain in the assembly for another year, will be put above the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Because the citizens want this government to leave, return the mandate to the citizens, go to the elections, and then we'll see who gets the trust of these citizens because this is the most corrupt government. in Croatia from the '90s until today. [[Intruder: Thank you, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147445	Thank you very much. My colleague Vučetić, please be your guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147446	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break to warn the public of this extraordinary situation, which is not only extraordinary by the date and manner of calling this session, but is remarkable in the very nature and nature of this government. Namely, this government is extraordinary, but in one way absurd, it is in constant formation and disappearance, when this government begins its disappearance. The government's absurd also comes to terms with Minister Pavic, who has already achieved the ideal of what one Europarliament representative said Kolakusic, which is that he wants to be the minister of as many ministries as possible. So now he turns out to be your realized ambitions as a missing apprentice. Because of this extraordinary situation and because of our vote, we are proving ourselves to be in the government's formation and disappearance, I call on all MPs, not to disappear from the assembly because they thus show impotence before the current government, but to enter the assembly and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147447	A colleague named Bacic has now reported on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147448	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I request a 10-minute break in order to reiterate our arguments and discuss the arguments that have led to the government's reconstruction. But first of all, I would like to say that it is not funny, that it was tragic for politicians and persons who were either convicted of theft, on which the backs of ten cases where they were found in conflict of interest, to be given to us by a party carrying a government in which each minister was found to have a conflict of interest. And that's a document in the government whose members are not accused of crime, but are not suspects, but are not even found in a conflict of interest. So that is what those who have been convicted by the Croatian judiciary and those whose close family members have damaged the state budget for millions of kunas and those who are as heads of the ministry or as presidents of parliamentary parties on 10 times have been found in conflict of interest. They've been transferring this to the most successful government since the '90s. To this day. The government that turned all macroeconomic indicators in Croatia, the government whose term of office was increased pay, the average salary of EUR 100, the government that raised the minimum wage by 25%, the government that managed to manage finance for the first time in a way that, in a way that the budget is in surplus, the government that has launched numerous reforms and the government that has so far succeeded. That's why I congratulate Mr. Prime Minister on his successes so far, and I'm sure this reshuffle of the government will still be done. One step further into the government's success. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147449	Thank you. Okay, of course I have to approve a break, so we continue at 17.35 when we vote on all those points that have been passed through the parliamentary committees. Thank you. It's the 17th 25th hour. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.36 HOURS]] I called the 13th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament at the request of the Government, based on articles 220 and 221. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The draft agenda was submitted by electronic means. In accordance with Article 225 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Rules of Procedure, which have been written against the draft agenda, have not been adopted, I would say that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 13th extraordinary session. In accordance with Article 228, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I should now publish the established agenda in an appropriate manner, but I suggest not to read it completely, but to allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147452	I swear. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147453	I congratulate the representative on his sworn oath and wish him success in carrying out his honorary representative's duties. Now we're going to go to the vote. We are voting on proposals to show confidence to members of the government. First, the proposal to show confidence to Davor Bozinović, Minister of the Interior and to act as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, is proposed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, in accordance with Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the debate was held at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. In accordance with Article 119 of the Rules of Procedure, this proposal is not under discussion at the plenary session. I stress that Article 252. The Rules of Procedure set out that in order to show confidence to government members, a half majority of all MPs are required, so 76. I am now voting on a proposal to show confidence in Davor Bozinović, Minister of the Interior and to carry out the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 82 FOR and 2 votes against, have shown confidence in Davor Bozinovic, Minister of the Interior and in the duties of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147457	.../Marko Vučetić: I am looking for a break./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147458	You can't have a break when you've already had one. Let's move on, proposal to show confidence to Ivan Malenica, to carry out the office of Minister of Administration. In accordance with Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the debate was held at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. As in previous points, this proposal is not under discussion, and a half majority of all MPs, 76, are required to exercise confidence. I am voting on the proposal to show confidence to Ivan Malenica for the duties of Minister of Administration. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour and 3 against the vote, have shown confidence in Ivan Malenica for his duties as minister of the administration. .../Applause.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147464	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. So he's hurt. 119th, which says the minister's candidate is voting at the Parliament's session. So not on the parent board, but at the Parliament meeting. Therefore, there is no need to wait for any vote at the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Pension System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147465	I didn't say I needed to wait for the vote because I needed to wait for the debate to end. Yeah. It must end the session, so please understand that we must respect both the Rules of Procedure and the existing practice. Ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence, the conditions for giving the oath of new ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia have been met. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation Rules of Procedure of HS and Art. 5. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the oath is given in a way that the President pronounces the text of the oath and thereafter calls upon individual members of the Government, and the members of the Government swear by standing up and saying their oaths. The text of the oath reads: "I swear that I will exercise consciously and honorably, respect the Constitution, laws and legal order and advocate any progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Gordan Grlic Radman, foreign and European affairs minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147466	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147467	Thank you and congratulations. ... Ivan Malenica, Minister of Management. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147468	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147469	Thank you and congratulations. ... Marija Vukkovic, Minister of Agriculture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147470	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147471	Thank you. ... Marijo Banozic, Minister of State Property. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147472	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147473	... Vesna Bedekovic, Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147474	I swear. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147475	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, Your Honors Ministers and Honorable Ministers, I congratulate you on your trust and on your sworn oath. I wish you to successfully carry out the honorary and responsible duties of the Vice-President, Minister or Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We cannot yet conclude the 13th extraordinary session, so we will wait for the work of the Labour Committee, the pension system and the social partnership, and immediately after this vote, a session of the Committee on the Constitution will be held. So right now, a session for the Constitution. Comrade Reiner, tell me where, in which room? The same where the meetings of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are always held. So I'll see you then, we'll let you know 15 minutes after the parent committee's session is over. Please be there. It's 17.50 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.35 HOURS]] Thank you very much, we will now vote on: - Proposed to show confidence to Josip Aladrović for his duties as Minister of Labour and Pensions System The Proposer is Andrej Plenkovic, President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 119. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the debate was held at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Rules of Procedure, this proposal is not under discussion at the plenary session. I would like to stress that Article 252 states that showing confidence to government members requires a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the proposal to show confidence to Josip Aladrovic for the duties of Minister of Labour and Pension System, please vote. I find that most votes, 79 votes and 1 vote against the voice of confidence given to Josip Aladrovic for his duties as Minister of Labour and Pension System. Ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence, the conditions for giving the oath of a new minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia have been met. [[Applause.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 5 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the oath is given in a way that the President pronounces the text of the oath and thereafter calls on individual members of the Government and the members of the Government to swear by standing up and saying "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I will swear to the duty of a member of the Government knowingly and honorably, to respect the Constitution, laws and legal predicate and to advocate all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Josip Aladrović, Minister of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147477	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-19-0.u147478	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I congratulate you on your trusted and sworn in, I wish you a great deal of success in carrying out this honorable and responsible duty as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And to you respected MPs and MPs, I thank you and hereby conclude the 13th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. SESSION FINISHED IN 18.39 HOURS
