ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144473	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. The final proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports prepared by this Government to create assumptions for the proper and effective implementation of this EU binding act. At EU level, the regulation establishes a single legislative framework in the field of financing and charging of port services on a transparent, fair and non-discriminatory law, while this law allows for the effective implementation of the same law, through the establishment of bodies in whose jurisdiction it is to implement the provisions of the regulation on the settlement of complaints, complaints and formal complaints in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, the determination of the obligation to report to the European Commission on the sinking procedures, the way of implementation, consultation with the port users, the manner of publication of the decisions of the port managing bodies and the final regulation of the infringement of the provisions of the regulation. This law will contribute to the efficient use and creation of a favourable atmosphere for investment in both Croatian seaports, in the ports of Rijeka, Pula, Sibenik, Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik and Ploče, all through the implementation of a single, clear and transparent European legislative framework for the financing and charging of port services and charges for the use of port infrastructure. Finally, I would like to note that this final proposal was only no-technically completed in relation to the draft law in the first reading and as a result of compliance with the opinions of the competent authorities. Given that the adoption and application of this law will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of Croatian ports and ensure compliance with the EU acquis, I propose the adoption of this bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144474	I'd like to thank the Secretary of State, no replicas, so we're moving on to the committee's rapporteurs. There's no one to talk to. Well, she's opening the debate, the first one's called the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed HDZ colleague Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144475	I would like to thank Mr President, the Honorable State Secretary with an associate, respected colleague and colleague, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposal for a Law implementing the European Parliament and Council Regulation of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common and common rules on the financial transparency of ports, as proposed by the Government. As the Secretary of State pointed out, compared to the first reading, when we also supported this law, several nomotechnical changes were made, but nothing important happened between the first and second readings with this law. It is important to say that this law defines the integration of Croatian ports into an effective transport and logistics chain of trans-European transport networks, which will allow a more favourable atmosphere for investment through the creation of a unique and clear transparent European legislative framework for the financing and charging of port services and the use of port infrastructure. This law lays down what is the competent authority for the resolution of complaints and complaints, proceedings, inter alia, and the concession of the port area in the ports to which this law, i.e. this regulation of the European Council and Parliament, is indeed relevant. What is important to say is that in Croatia it is the competent body of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure which determines the procedure for resolving complaints and complaints, the way and the implementation of consultations with the users of ports and other stakeholders is arranged and the way decisions of port managing authorities are made public. What is important to say, given that we in Croatia have a large number of ports both at sea and at sea, this regulation applies primarily to seaports and for non-ports that have more than 0.1% of the total burden or number of passengers in the EU. When replaying this on the Republic of Croatia, then we can say that this regulation will regulate, prescribe the way in which the Board of Ports and the Ministry of the Sea manages, which is the competent body only in the cases of Pula, Luka Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik ports, Split ports, Ploče ports and Dubrovnik ports. Therefore,... ports in which the seaports in which traffic is greater than 0,1% of total transport in European ports, irrespective of whether those ports are priority cargo ports or boarding ports and landing passengers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What needs to be distinguished is the individual port activities to which the implementation of this Regulation is concerned, there are so-called so-called port activities. technical nautical activities relating to weighting,... shipping., berthing and transport of ships when talking about cargo traffic, then port activities relating to the boarding and landing of passengers, storage of goods, transfer of goods, etc. the other port activities which are in the function of carrying out the total port activities and relating to the supply of ships, the reception of waste from ships, fire protection services, the provision of services to passengers, quality control of goods, representation jobs in the customs sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Commission has identified the problems facing the port sector, which are the lack of port capacity and bad port connections with their backdrop. I have mentioned this only for reasons to specify how important it is, for example, for the port of Rijeka to build a new railway line which is actually part of 5B corridor, which would connect Rijeka through Zagreb with Budapest and thus strengthen the position of Rijeka port as well as other ports in the Republic of Croatia for which this regulation and otherwise prescribe a better transport connection with the hinterland and which is based on the operation of the port. What I would add at the end would say that Europe has 9 transport corridors of which 3 corridors are in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, three transport corridors, the 5th corridor, the 5B that connects Rijeka with Budapest, the 5C that connects Ploče with Budapest then the 10th corridor, which is the road corridor and railway corridor that goes from Zagreb towards Slavonski Brod and towards Belgrade, continues towards the Black Sea and the only river corridor in Europe is the 7th corridor, i.e. the Danube corridor, the words corridor. Therefore, in this sense, when we talk about the TNT network, the network of traffic routes and the network of transport corridors in Europe, three very important corridors pass through its space. In this sense, in order to strengthen the position of our ports on this corridor, we have spent many years in Croatia a large project of building port infrastructure in all ports, in almost all ports of national importance, from Rijeka to Dubrovnik to make it clear that our ports are competitive, knowing that the Adriatic Sea is the deepest in the European continent, and therefore Croatian northern ports, and above all, Rijeka have this position, which enables burden-attraction. In order for this burden to come to the port of Croatia, then, clearly in an economic sense, the port of Rijeka and all other economic operators that are relying on the port system are being made a major investment in the river itself, but also in others as I said earlier. Therefore, in order for our ports to be part of the EU port sector, in order for the port operations to be unified, uniquely as in other European ports, so as to make it clear to world shipmen and, above all, to make the ports available and equal to, as is the approach in other important European ports, we will clearly need this regulation of the European Commission and of the Council, Councils and Parliament, and in that sense we, in the HDZ Representatives Club, will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144476	Thank you, colleagues, Bacic. Since no one has answered for the debate, I conclude it, and we will vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 595, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. I find that we unanimously, 77 votes for the adoption of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144479	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciated representatives and representatives of draft Law implementing Regulation 1257 of the European Parliament was adopted on ship recycling, adopted on 20 November 2013 and entered into force in the EU from 1 January 2019. The objective of this Regulation is to prevent and reduce or reduce awareness to the minimum possible extent of accidents, injuries and other harmful effects on human health and the environment caused by ship recycling. As a Member State, the Republic of Croatia must establish a national framework for the full implementation of that Regulation, which means that it must designate the competent authorities for the implementation and supervision of this Regulation and the infringement provisions. Next, in cooperation with representatives of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, this draft bill was drawn up. This proposal for a law prescribes the authority to implement the regulation in the Republic of Croatia and, therefore, those are the terms laid down in the Regulation itself, the administration of that statement in our proposal is the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and refers to duties relating to ships flying the flag of the Republic of Croatia. Recognised organisations would, according to this law, be the Croatian Register of Ships, then determine the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, and above all for the authorisation of the ship recycling plant, this is regulated by Article 10, and that is the basic article of this law. It is also prescribed to keep a list of ship recycling facilities. The contact of persons and reporting to the European Commission, units, as well as the jurisdiction of this draft bill is also appointed and the responsibility of the managing body of the units of the regional self-government to notify the ship's intention to recycle from shipowners and to grant consent to the ship's recycling plan to the ship's ship recycling facility. As long as the supervision of the implementation of this Regulation is within the competence of the environmental inspector in the State Inspectorate, as resolved in Article 12 of this proposal for a law. I'm just going to go through a summary of the regulation itself to see what this is all about. The Regulation shall not apply to warships, auxiliary vessels under the rule of the State, shall not apply to gross vessels of tonnes of less than 500 gross tonnes and ships which, during their lifetime, sail only to waters which are under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of a Member State under whose flag the ship is flying. The regulation prescribes that ships may only be recycled in ship recycling facilities included in the European list. Ships shall prohibit new installation or restriction, limit the installation or use of dangerous materials such as asbestos, substances that damage the ozone layer, etc., compounds in the anti-aging system. Each new ship must have a list of hazardous materials that are part of the structure of the ship or its equipment. The list of hazardous materials shall be properly maintained and updated during the operational life of the ship. Shipowners shall, when preparing a ship for recycling, provide the ship recycling operator with all relevant information necessary for the preparation of the ship's recycling plan. The ship recycling intention of a particular ship recycling facility shall be notified by the relevant management in writing and within the time limit set by that administration. In the Republic of Croatia, this is the administrative body of the regional and regional self-government units and two months is the deadline, two months before the reception of the recycling plant, they must inform them. The recycling plan shall be developed by the ship recycling plant operator based on data obtained from shipowners and ship inspections carried out by management officers or recognised organisations authorised by that administration, i.e. by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, or by the Croatian Register of Authorities. We have initial checks to be carried out by 31 December 2020, re-examinations carried out in time intervals, which determines the administrative body or the Ministry of the Sea. Additional checks would be the general ones to be carried out if requested by the shipowner following the modification of a particular part of the equipment. Final ship inspections shall also be carried out before the ship is withdrawn from use and before ship recycling begins. State port surveillance, Member States shall apply control provisions for ships in accordance with their national law and inspection is limited to checking whether there is a licence on board of a list or a declaration of the ship's preparedness for recycling. The approval of a ship recycling facility located in a Member State may be granted to a ship recycling facility for a maximum period of 5 years and may, in an appropriate manner, be repeated, or extended and the plant approval, for recycling located in a third country intended, therefore, for ships intended to be recycled in a third country under the flag of a Member State, a request shall be submitted to the Commission for the inclusion of that ship recycling facility in the European list. The European List shall be published in the Official Journal of the EU and on the Commission's website. So this is the essence of this Regulation, which will also be implemented in this law in national legislation. The implementation of this law will not cause any cost to the Republic of Croatia's budget and we have only had two objections and this is the nomotechnical nature of the Legislative Committee that is included in this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144480	Thank you. Do we have a replica? No, I don't. We don't have a replica. So we're going to report to the committee reporter. If none of the board does, then we're going to have an argument. The first one again is counterpart Branko Bačić, a HDZ representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144481	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives Club supports the Proposal for a Law implementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 on ship recycling and amending the 2006 Regulation and the '16th year respectively. I must say that if the logic of things were to be imposed on us in the first place, however, that this law should be proposed on behalf of the Government by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, given that it is primarily about the sea, ships, navigation but since it is about environmental protection and the marine environment, it is nevertheless decided that, on behalf of the Government, the representatives of the Ministry of Energy and Environment speak on behalf of this law. The international unification of regulations relating to the safety of human life and the protection of the environment began right in the maritime navigation sector. Among the most important should be the SoLAS Convention, which regulates the safety of human lives at sea. From the field of protection of the sea and the marine environment, one of the most important international conventions as the only international maritime organisation is the MARPOL Convention, and both of these conventions are adopted under the International Maritime Organisation of which is a member and the Republic of Croatia. It is this International Maritime Organisation, whose members are almost all coastal states and the auctions that have its shipowners, that adopts and prescribes regulations that are unified at the level of the International Maritime Organisation. The importance of this particular maritime transport, largely managed by the International Maritime Organisation, is reflected in the fact that 90% of all world trade in goods is currently taking place by sea. In preparation for this debate, I have taken a number of information that speaks about the importance of this law and this regulation, which will be adopted today or confirmed and unstratified. Early this year, the world’s world records included 50 thousand and 930 ships over 100 grosstons with a total of nearly 2 billion tons of load capacity. During last year, we still have no data for this year, and a new 62 million tons of capacity has been built, or ships that can handle and carry such significant data. The impact of maritime navigation on the safety of human life and the protection of the marine environment can be estimated from the fact that in the last 10 years, 1036 ships have been lost in maritime accidents, of which only in the last year a total of 46 ships have been lost. Mariners often stress that the life course of a ship is similar to human life. Namely, ships have a place and a year of birth, i.e. a flood, have a godmother, have a port of enrolment, an annual checkup but also a place and a year and a year when they end their voyages forever, i.e. the place of cutting point, i.e. how here we are today, and according to this law, we state the place of recycling. The average age of the world fleet varies about the type of ship, about 20.5 years old. This average age of ships was recorded in 2017. Annually, between 20 million and 60 million tons of load capacity is cut, i.e. between 900 and 1100 ships on average. The number of recycled ships is directly related to the state of the coaches on the world market of the ship's space, which means that when the trains are larger ships going to the yard because they simply lack the ship's space and then the shipowners, the shipowners, are more paid off and with the old ships carry out maritime traffic than they manage to result in cutting fees, i.e. recycling their own ship. So recycling is exclusively linked to the demand for ship space. Shipowners systematically calculate whether they are worth keeping the ship in exploitation or recycling in years... on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The new regulations of the International Maritime Organisation in the field of navigation security and protection of the marine environment require ship reconstruction or the installation of additional equipment have a significant impact on ship recycling. In that case, if the ship's re-creation engagement in the installation of additional equipment is greater than the recycling value, the ship's shipowners shall, as a rule, decide for recycling or cutting. Today, ship recycling has developed into a major economic activity that only employs about 225 000 people in Asia, due to cheaper labour, milder environmental and safety conditions, and high demand for shipbuilding iron, 90% of world recycling takes place in Asia, in Bangladesh, India, China and Pakistan. The average price a boatman can get for a ship sold on recycling is about $400 per tonne... Not an empty ship. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The price depends on the type of ship and the place where recycling is performed. Until recently, ship recycling was carried out in a very insecure, primitive and environmentally unacceptable way. About 75% of the ships are recycled by the so-called. the principle of bichinga or pre-baiting on the beaches. The recycling sites are filled with residues of fuel and oil, parts of equipment and construction, residues of various loads, works are accompanied by frequent fires and pollutions of the sea, air and shore. Above all, the alarming frequency of the deaths and injuries of older-generation workers, injured workers while such very simple, clumsy, unfortunate ways of recycling or cutting ships took place. Older generations in the Republic of Croatia remember St. Kajo's berths near Split, burning sections of ships, smoke clouds and pollution of the Kaštelan Bay by boat oil. Ships were fitted with equipment, toxic colors, asbestos as insulating, battery batteries and other dangerous materials. Due to the global impact of this activity on the eco-system and human health under the auspices of the international maritime organisation in 2009. The Convention for Safe and Environmentally Acceptable Recycling of Ships known as the Hong Kong Convention has been adopted. The Convention lays down conditions for ships and recycling sites, materials to be installed in ships, their recording and issuing of relevant certificates, recycling procedures, etc. The Convention has not yet entered into force because it has not ratified a sufficient number of countries, so I call on the representatives of the Government, given the importance of this Convention, and given the fact that today or the next time we vote, we will most likely adopt this Convention, or adopt this Regulation and adopt this law, so that it would be good to go into the procedure or maybe it has already started, I do not have such data, ratifications of the Hong Kong Convention or the Convention for Safe and Eco-acceptable Cycling of Ships. In the context of its numerous activities on the protection of the global environmental system, the EU has adopted a regulation that began to apply on 31 December 2018, this regulation is the most important regulation in the field of ship recycling. In particular, it is necessary to single out eco-economic relevant provisions on which all ships owned by European shipowners must be recycled in centres that have been approved by the European Commission. Approval shall confirm further cutting point, meet the prescribed ecological and safety conditions and procedures. So far, according to my knowledge, about 26 joints, mainly in the EU, America and Turkey have been granted the same approval. The importance of this provision is best reflected in the fact that 35% of the world fleet is directly owned by European shipowners, for which this regulation is prescribed. There is reasonable suspicion that the cutting points currently authorised by the European Commission are not sufficient to meet market requirements. However, the procedure for granting additional authorisations is ongoing. Furthermore, European shipowners fear that in the above-mentioned dumps they will not achieve the usual sale price of ships that they would receive in the traditional cutting points of Asia. So, still a large part of European shipowners go where they can get that cutting price that is more acceptable to them. So, despite all these fears that I have stated, I think it is good that the Republic of Croatia accepts such a solution that this law proposes, or the adoption of this ship recycling regulation, in order to preserve the marine environment, but, above all, given that it is very dense and intense maritime traffic in the Adriatic Sea, such old ships would generally not have adequate equipment and often are the source of haemataria and the reason why numerous maritime accidents occur, so it is good to prescribe conditions with this regulation as well as how to approach recycling or cutting ships. We'll take this law at the counsel club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144482	Since there are no more reports, I will conclude the debate, and we will vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) No This appropriation is intended to cover the expenditure on technical assistance and other expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment of the European Union’ and ‘Employment of the ‘Employment of the European Union’ policy area. 1013/2006 and Directive 2009/16 EC, first reading, P.Z. No. 647, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the said law and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find it unanimous, 78 votes to reach the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144485	I would like to thank the President HS, the honourable MPs, the Honorable MPs, the Act of Confirmation of the Nagoya Supplemental Protocol and Kuala Lumpur, therefore, on Responsibility and Compensation of the damages arising from the Article. 27. Protocol on biosecurity, so-called The Cartagena Protocol, and as such creates a framework for the handling of damage situations, by the diversity of human health that can cause living modified organisms as a result of their cross-border transfer. In the light of the basic protocol on biosecurity, it should be pointed out primarily that, as well as in the supplementary protocol, it mentions the term living modified organisms that are identical to the term genetically modified organism that is subject to the Croatian legislation in accordance with the Law on genetically modified organisms and the relevant EU directives. The Nagoy and Kuala Lumpur Supplemental Protocol because it was signed there as well as the basic biodiversity protocol applies to live modified organisms intended for direct use as food or food for animals, for example. Animal feed, for further processing as raw materials, for limited use in laboratories or for intentional introduction into the environment. With regard to the framework for liability and compensation, the Nagoya and Kuala Lumpura addendum in substance brings the following in Article 2. defines the concept of damage as a harmful effect on the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity taking into account and risks to human health. It then defines who can be considered a damage subject, this may also be the person who placed a living modified organism, producer, exporter, importer, supplier, etc., and defined in Article 2 of the response measure of the entities and competent authorities as reasonable measures to prevent reduced damage and restore biodiversity, and ultimately defines factors which determine a significant adverse effect by biodiversity. In Article 3(3), it states that it applies to the damage caused by live modified organisms originating in cross-border transmission. Article 5 determines the conduct of entities and competent authorities at the time of the damage in such a way that the competent authority determines the damage and prescribes appropriate response measures to the entity. Responsibilities may be implemented by the competent authority which has the right to compensate the entity for the costs and expenditure associated with the assessment of the damage. Article 6 defines situations where the Nagoya Supplement Protocol does not apply, which refers to natural disasters or higher force or war or civil unrest. Article 8 allows States Parties to provide in their domestic law for financial restrictions on costs. In Article 12, it lays down a link with civil legal liability and allows parties to apply their existing national legislation, which is very important and that is the essence of this law or the application or development of rules and procedures relating to civil liability specifically for this purpose and at the end of the implementation and development of the combination of one and other possibilities in this law. I note only that the obligation, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia after ratification, is that the ratification of the Nagoya Republic Protocol will not have to adopt a specific legal framework because the problem of ex post damage has already been transposed into national legislation by the environmental liability regulation. The problem of liability and compensation for damages incurred under the influence of genetically modified organisms is listed in Article 55 of the applicable Law on genetically modified organisms, and in the same way is provided for in the proposal for a new Law on genetically modified organisms whose holder is the Ministry of Health. This law, which is present in the proposal, does not introduce new administrative obligations, no new jobs are prescribed, so the implementation of this law will not affect expenditure or specific expenditure of the state budget. The competent authorities for the implementation of this law at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Science, therefore all bodies already involved in the implementation of the existing Law on modified organisms and finally the draft proposal was made available to the public from 29 April to 13 May 2019 and was therefore only 1 complaint and other complaints were not important. Therefore, the additional motive at the end of the ratification of the supplemental agreement is at the moment the Presidency of the EU Council in the first half of 2020 so that the Republic of Croatia can competently lead the Council working group on international environmental issues in the formation of biological security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144486	We have two replicas of the State Secretary's exposure. The first one is a colleague of Vlaović's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144487	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I think it is in the interest of all of us to integrate into the Croatian legislation of the EU directive, including this protocol to protect biodiversity in the Republic of Croatia and to prevent the introduction of genetically modified organisms here into nature. We know that all our counties have made a decision that GMOs are free, and we have situations that continue to enter our products in Croatia. And certainly it is not good, we also have an example of the failure of the Agency to operate against unfair commercial practices, to continue to import excessively, and in particular to import goods and materials that have been polluted, so here according to the writing of some media and with these Croatian fruit communities, we have recently received strawberries with pesticide residues from Greece. How do you stop it? It is necessary to strengthen inspection for the introduction of goods into the EU. We see that that doesn't work. And we hope that the State Inspectorate will change that practice. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144488	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144489	I thank the esteemed representative, so GMOs can be discussed a little longer to get into the very essence of GMOs, but I will only say here briefly according to our official information on the Croatian market we officially do not have GMOs. Thus far, no one has submitted a request for the placing of GMO products on the market. Similarly, no one has made an official request for the introduction of GMOs for environmental testing in the test field. That's what we have as official data.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144490	Second replica, Comrade Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144491	Thank you very much. Here is the biodiversity and preservation in the Republic of Croatia very important of course regarding trade and imports of GMO products and would disagree with you, secretary, if there were no GMO products in Croatia, we know that... Seeds and everything in Croatia are on the market and that domestic seed, domestic production, not only is it analyzed, but is literally brought to the level that we have very little domestic seed and domestic products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have given here and the Law on Banning and Transport and Banning Trade of GMOs and Production, however, the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there is too much influence by Monsanto which sells its seed, and Croatian seed, domestic products disappear and this should be spoken of openly, primarily by your ministry that should protect biodiversity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144492	There's no need to answer, so let's go see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club is the first, respected counterpart, Ante Plazonic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144493	Thank you, Mr. President of HS, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has become party to the Protocol on Biosafety with the Convention on Biological Variety on the date of entry into force of the Protocol on 11 September 2003. Today, we have before us the Nagoya and Kuala Lumpur, which are in addition to the Protocol on Biosafety of Relations and to the problem of liability and damages at EU level, determined by the EU Parliament and the Council on Environmental Responsibility for the prevention and elimination of environmental damage. In national legislation, this issue is regulated by the Environmental Liability Regulation which regulates those activities that pose a risk to the environment, as well as human health and measures and ways of removing environmental damage. By adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia shall adopt an international legal framework setting out the relevant rules and procedures in the field of liability and damages related to living modified organisms whose origin in cross-border transfer with the aim of preserving and sustainable use of biodiversity, also taking into account risks to human health. In this respect, the Additional Protocol sets out basic issues such as the definition of biodiversity damage, the need to take preventive measures in the event of the likelihood of injury, the determination of the measures of responsibility of the competent authorities and the entities that have done the damage. The Additional Protocol shall apply to the damage caused by live modified organisms originating in cross-border transmission. These living modified organisms may have different uses for direct use. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this final draft of the law, believing that this is a problem and responsibility for compensation for damages, when it comes to living modified organisms and contribute to the preservation of biodiversity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144494	Since no one has answered, I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Nagoya and Kuala Lumpur Supplemental Protocol on Liability and Compensation to Biological Security Protocol (Carthage Protocol), second reading, P.Z. No. 650, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed and I am voting on that final draft of the law, please vote. I find it unanimous with 86 votes for the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144497	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed representative of the Ministry of Finance. I welcome all of you together on behalf of the HSS and here we have before us a proposal of the Law on the examination of the origins of property and of the special taxation of illegally acquired property. In fact, it is a general perception in Croatia that one of the biggest problems is corruption and illegal wealth and that, consequently, a large number of our citizens do not believe in the system, over 70% of citizens say that this country is not going in the right direction and that they expect more significant changes. Changes can only be made if there is political will and if the robbery of the Republic of Croatia is prevented. International organisations, including Eurostat, say that around 30% of the annual GDP in the Republic of Croatia is in the gray zone. Economic experts have calculated that it's somewhere between 40 billion and 50 billion a year. This is the part where the state has no influence, does not affect that mass and the income from that basis is missing, and we know that we lack funding for both the health system and for pensions and education, for science and for many other reforms that are needed in terms of increasing the salaries of workers, increasing pensions and better quality of life for citizens in Croatia. Many of you from the gray zone, people who deal with corruption and bypass the law are laughing at the whole system, and we are also about to give a stop to this illegal wealth of individuals. That is why we have also proposed this Law on the examination of the origin of the property and the specific taxation of the property acquired. We now have a legislative framework that treats this area. However, what we have in practice. We have that our legislative framework is too much to deal with, that every moment the laws change, that the judiciary is overcrowded, that the trials last for years, and that we practically see individuals bypassing the law and illegally getting rich and even against some who have been ruled against, they are annulled because of some legal procedural errors and what is crucial, what citizens expect, whether they will ever, after one of these convictions to Sanader, Nadan Vidosevic, Bandic or someone else, return one kuna to the state budget. We've had it rarely or almost once. We allow this bill to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are equal before the law, I think that should be the goal, that they are all equal before the law and that the law is applied equally to all. There were similar proposals of this type of law already in the Parliament procedure and where they mainly targeted certain groups of public officials, officials, or people in state companies. No, we want all citizens to be equal before the law and that they can all come into those tax scissors. We foresee this law that the Ministry of Finance or the competent tax administration implements this law, so we do not go to court processes that are long-term and ultimately have not produced results until now, but we do not allow the tax administration to establish, on the basis of records that they have through the OIB and through other forms of payment of personal income, who has earned who, clearly, is visible from assets in the grant and catastro and property cards as much as who has the property and if they determine the disproportionateness between income and property, by tax decision at an increased rate of 60-70%, and that within 15 days, they charge from which they illegally acquired the property, or who cannot prove in this procedure, where they are from apartments, houses, houses, villas, cars. So now we have a situation and now in the tax card, some officials forget to sign up for real estate. So we have a situation where it's worth 100, and objectively it's worth 500. So we have a situation to transfer property to heirs, to relatives, to neighbors. Has any such procedure ever been initiated according to official duty according to the property card or any other document in Croatia? It's not. And so through this model, through the direct tax administration we relieve the judiciary, there would be a burdened judiciary, but the tax administration did this part of the job, and if it found that someone had acquired illegal property, the difference, that the difference between income and property would have been cut by a tax solution of 60-70% to pay, and if in an illegal or some criminal act they had acquired property, then it was the duty of the tax administration under official duty to refer it to the court procedure. Then let him go to court. And we're dispensing the judiciary because here the owner of these properties, illegally acquired, could go with the lawsuit and he could prove his property, not that the institutions of the state must establish for him, and then one art, another art, and eventually become obsolete. Here, the tax administration is authorized and has enough capacity, if not, is easily still able to educate quality people, hire them, and that would make sense because big revenues would be made, I said that 40-50 billion per year is out of tax and other taxes in Croatia. So if we really want to take one step to say so one minister can't have 3 apartments and 2 houses, and he has a salary of 20 thousand kuna, where did he get it? He can have credit, okay, let him show he's got credit, so he bought it. He can have an inheritance, okay, let him prove the decision to inherit. But if there's a difference, and we often see that there are differences and no one has caught up with it. Why? Well, because they need hands here in the Parliament for most to make the government work. Then it's easier to buy one parliamentary representative, I say conditionally buy because I don't know what they got for counter-service, but the fact is that we had a club-to-club transition just so most of them here would exist in HS, that laws would be passed that go according to the will of the big ones. And then there's not that we're all equal in Croatia in front of the law. It is unacceptable for us to reject this bill by the government and the competent committee for reasons that it does not comply with the Constitution, which does not stand because we see that it affects all citizens and that they are all equal before this law. So we did not go as some other promoters only to target groups, public officials and officials, but to all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. We're not taking away anyone's property, we're not going into property because it's inalienable under the Constitution, but for those who can't prove their property, they're paying taxes, and for those who have come to him in criminal proceedings, they're officially going to initiate a judicial procedure by the competent authority, which is, in this case, the tax administration, with the DORH and the judiciary. So, those objections don't stand. We also had an objection about the statute of limitations. So let's be honest, so let's say that in the 1990s, while privatisation was done in the Republic of Croatia, while many of us were still defenders in the trenches, until some of us privatized businesses, destroyed businesses, opened up, destroyed jobs, and thus obtained property for which no one had ever been paid for, and the workers were out of work and, unfortunately, many of them now, over 300 thousand of our citizens went outside of the Republic of Croatia because for these reasons they don't believe in the system. So if this is legally unsettled as far as the statute of limitations is concerned, then the government and the ministry could go with the amendment, so we could agree on that. But no, there's no political will to touch anything about this, let alone regulate it legally and make it up, we have technical reasons why the law isn't good. Well, I agree, we have technical mistakes, we're not professionals, but the competent authorities could then say in that technical sense it's wrong, correct it, but well, there's a possibility and this law will come into play in other reading, so we'll fix it and nomotechnically, and I think that's just the reasons why the government, the competent ministry, doesn't want to get caught up with corruption in the Republic of Croatia, that's the real question, why it doesn't want to deal with corruption in the Republic of Croatia. This law would be a quality tool for that because anyone who illegally came to property must prove where he got his property, apartment, house, car, so today we have a situation that the person who receives the social aid that you've all witnessed through the media comes with an expensive BMW for social assistance, so how is that possible? Well, it's possible because the existing legislative framework doesn't work, because the state authorities have done nothing on official duty and we as fellow citizens haven't reported anyone, and it stands, and it has our own personal faults, too. But we will no longer be silent and watch this BMW pass by us and how someone lives out of welfare and has property and it has great, great values. Our system is trom, and due to the need for a new one, so I dare say more radical changes to the law, so here's to the example of our fellow unfortunate firefighter who died in the Kornati, he should have waited 12 years to determine his compensation for what he lived through and how difficult he lives today, 12 years. And unfortunately, only after the pressure of fellow firefighters and firemen and firemen, did the government agree to a deal. This is about corruption, no deal. There's a tax settlement here, so pay up so you complain and prove it. You initiate court proceedings if you have illegally acquired property so prove where you, we disburse the judiciary, enable the state's revenues, I said 40 to 50 billion a year in that gray zone in the Republic of Croatia, and the government's own representatives in addressing here in the Croatian Parliament have admitted in some elements that there is this grey economy in the Republic of Croatia. And we see that the existing tools don't work, that the trials last for 10, 15 years, and then, for some formal reasons, the verdicts are annulled, and at the end of what we have, the dissatisfaction of citizens because they see that some are more powerful than both the government and the judiciary and the state. So when the verdict of Mr. Ivy Sanader, Nadan Vidosevic, Milan Bandic and the series will finally come to an end, so that I don't list further people who are acting high in the Republic of Croatia and because of which the judiciary clearly has no solution as it currently exists in the Republic of Croatia, they always find a solution through lawyers and legal holes and what is crucial is that there is no money missing in the state budget and only here, there is political will. I believe that you and we here in the Croatian Parliament want to change the law, be enforceable and ultimately ensure that these laws ensure the equality of all citizens before the laws and allow no one in Croatia to become illegally rich. It was a representative from HSS or HDZ or SDP. We should all be against the fact that corruption is booming in the Republic of Croatia and we see that others say about us that it is present because the index of perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is such that we are in the ranks of some African countries. Do we want such a Croatia, do we want to live in such a country or do we want to change it? So I thought we all agreed that this approach should be changed and laws should be passed and laws should be implemented to allow Croatian citizens to be equal before the law, to allow them to have such incomes where they will have a chance to get both a job and a job with a personal income from which they can live, to educate their children, to have pensions from which they will be able to live and to believe in the system because it is defeating for all of us that more than 70% of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia do not believe in the system, does not believe that this country is going in a good direction and it is devastating for all of us that young people are leaving the Republic of Croatia. So here is today the pressure on the government and the competent ministry to open another 4,5,000 work permits for foreigners in Croatia because there is no one left to work and even we Slavonians who came to the Adriatic need for the season, we no longer need to do so and we won't, went unfortunately to Germany, Ireland or some state where they are treated as workers, rewarding them for their work with income and guaranteeing them tomorrow the pension and quality of life until this changes in Croatia, we will have the situation that we will look for the next 4000 additional work permits, but also for the other 50 000 work permits, only from where, there is no more swimming pools of BiH, because they are already looking to go towards Slovenia, Austria and Germany, we will need all the necessary to do the necessary things in the Eastern countries, Ukraine and even in Asia, and even there is such labour that there which acquires knowledge and skills here, and tomorrow, you can guarantee that they will not guarantee that they will be able to do so much of all the necessary to do so in their property, because of their property, because of the money, because they are not only the money, because of the money, because of the money, And we are witnessing that it is not so, that we have a legislative framework that is not implemented and that we are not all equal before the law. So I ask you to see, in your debate, give us more suggestions and suggestions to correct this bill, but I think we should all be in the best interest of adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144498	Thank you. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144499	Dear President, on behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break to consult on this proposal as well, but the situation also means in a society that we have about corruption. What his colleague was saying about experience, the perception of corruption in Croatian society is absolutely correct, it is not an accident. We here at HS unfortunately witnessed situations of sales of MPs, the assembly of this commercial majority and what is very important to highlight here, when the key laws were changed, remember that only the club of representatives of MOST warned that Minister Marić had gone to reduce the rate of disproportionate property, that my colleague Kristic and I had not warned at the time, joined us, a fellow Lalovec who supported us, that the rate of disproportionate property would be much lower, eventually under our pressure increased, but what remained a problem that instead of those, instead of examining the disproportionate property we had in the law since 2005, now introduced to check it for only the last 6 years, so it happens that every year we lose a year that we can check. In doing so, the father's age or Sanader's time practically remained beyond the reach of researching disproportionate property and apparently there was the intention of the finance minister, and what we as MOST insist is just anti-corruption law and anti-corruption package law. I think there's a key transparency, which I said on Friday when there was a debate on our law, that the HBOR publicly announces all its loans, which the rulings do not want to do, and that's what we did when we sent the law where we want to unite all the costs of politicians in one place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144500	Stanka's going to be approved, is there anyone else here? If not, we'll continue at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144501	Here are colleagues and colleagues, the break is up and we will go to the replicas to present the respected representative Davor Vlaovic, the first replica will be the respected representative of Mark Sladoliev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144502	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague, I have one question, so did you use the experience of other countries in this legislative proposal because we always have when an opposition party proposes a good law, then as it's not normotechnically correct, it's always the main reason for them to reject the law, it's not clear to me that we in Croatia can't pass such anti-corruption laws as this one and always remember the example from Germany when Steffi Graf was at the top of the popularity so her father didn't pay taxes, so one such person like Steffi Graf and her father immediately ended up in prison and all the money they blacked out came back in a very short time, so I'm asking why we don't simply paint some laws from other countries that we have and use good experiences?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144503	Thank you, the answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144504	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague, I agree with you that you should always learn from better, than those who have seriously dealt with corruption in your country and our legal team in the party have consulted with many associations from the legal circles with which our colleagues cooperated and it is certain that what is written in the government's explanation that they are being rejected because they do not comply with some other laws and because of no-technical reasons, it is not true, the real truth is that there is no political will to adopt such a law in the Republic because it is obvious that these powerful men who have illegal property write laws and they influence how laws are implemented in the Republic and we from HSS, and I believe you also care that all citizens are equal before the law and that the laws are implemented, that the penalties are all those who illegally acquire property in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144505	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144506	Thank you, Vice President. So, I've already been in this apartment that we've had, and I've just said that corruption is one big problem that eats all segments of society, it's not immune to any part of society, it's often about the problem of corruption in politics, that corruption is the most visible and it affects the largest number of people, but we have the corruption in health, we have it in education, we can almost say in Croatian mentality, and that's what needs to be changed, and that's what nobody is immune to, but I think we should and I should do it with more reasonable time and suggest that we punish corruption with officials, in politicians, I think it's the right way because we simply have to send a message to citizens, to everyone who is part of society that this society is something that this society won't and can't tolerate so that in this direction any initiative is to welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144507	Dear Representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144508	Thank you, Vice President. I agree, and all in Croatia know that corruption is one of the biggest problems in Croatia and many citizens who have been reported, do not believe or over 70% of Croatian citizens believe that Croatia is going in the right direction and one of the main reasons in communication with people who have left Croatia is that the state is not working, that the legal system does not work and that they do not see themselves there for reasons not only that they cannot get a job with adequate personal income from which they can live, but that they cannot get a job at all because they do not have one important document and that is the member card of the ruling party, and as long as they are circumstances and while people think so, we can hardly regain trust in the state and the legal system and this proposed law would certainly help restore citizens's trust in the system because no one could avoid tax collectors when they are cut into tax administrations, we must pay within 15 days. Obviously, it's not an interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144509	Thank you. The next replica is Djujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144510	My colleague Vlaović, you have described very well the situation in which Croatia is today and I welcome any initiative or attempt to address these problems that we are facing today, which is primarily corruption. However, with this proposal of yours, I have a dilemma that I would like to share with you, which is, you have just mentioned that the judiciary is not working and that in fact the trials last for years, I think it is a fundamental problem and that all these problems can be solved only by one deep reform of the judiciary. We have a series of laws that are good now just don't go through. Now, as my dilemma is, my dilemma is that, in this proposal, you are essentially putting a greater burden on the tax administration that should then conduct investigations in relation to the judiciary, and I am now interested in whether, in this situation where we are witnessing the haizeisation of institutions in the state, the tax administration which is the principle of the ruling party and corresponds to the Minister of Finance, would such tax administration conduct investigations against ministers, over their squares, assets, etc., these are the dilemmas with which I meet in this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144511	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144512	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague, I agree with you that the key to the implementation of the law in Croatia is a quality and efficient judiciary. We see that through a series of trials that last 10, 15 years, so they return to the beginning, it proves that the judicial system has its faults and that it needs to be more serious about reforming the judiciary, to give greater emphasis on this quality of the trial, on the adequate conditions of the judges' oil and their personal incomes and all of that system, not only to the suss, but to the complete people who work in this system and as far as tax administration is concerned, so here in good faith, I believe that there are professional, moral people there who could implement this law and should not need judicial skills and some judicial practitioners who would have to pay beyond the system but within the tax administration there are quality people who just need to be rewarded for their work and given them tools like this law so that they can get hurt by those who illegally acquire property.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144513	Thank you. The next replicas of the esteemed Alfirea, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144514	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vlaović, you mentioned in your opening statement that the government does not actually accept this proposal, your bill in one part because it is considered and not constitutional. Do you think it's now, you said yourself that it's probably not just, that it's not true and either because it's not constitutional or because maybe they really have a different modus operand by which it's actually normal to have Mercedes in the yard, and not knowing where you're from or if you know, then it's hard to prove it or have a barbecue or a building that you claim is a barbecue or also by that modus operandum you say that you actually have hotels and that you actually have 21st, so you don't know It's not where it's from. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Or how it happened. [[Intruder: Dear Representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144515	... Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144516	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Members, you've detected the problem well, it's not about the inconsistency of this law with the Constitution because in our proposal we've made it clear to all citizens who live and work in the Republic and who are able to do business, that all under the supervision of the competent authority of the Ministry of Finance are tax administrations and that those under official duty can determine in relation to the existing tools they have through the OIB, through other forms, the chance of determining how much income they have from personal income and other sources, and how much they have the value of assets and how much disproportionately they tax it at high rates. But unfortunately, yes, it's different to modus operandi, we don't need this kind of law, because there are laws that don't apply or that are selectively implemented, and then individuals don't have to prove where they come from in a tax property card of some kind, Mercedes. or a house. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I think that's it. It's sad. [[Intruder: Next...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144517	...the replica of the respected representative Matic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144518	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Vlaović, your bill is very noble, but you know for a fact that he is very naive because you have touched the key problem of the Republic of Croatia, what is causing Croatian citizens for 30 years, is killing us, while 90 defenders have died for this country, others have stolen and now, you have said yourself, if the government and the parliamentary board refuse the bill, everything is clear to you, so they don't want to touch it because when this law is rejected, you should ask people who it is that, that the inspection enters his house and let's say, here I first raise my hand at any time of the day and night come to my house. However, I would like to and I would suggest that if, and it is known that the Government will refuse that law, that we law the famous Royce "who has pitted, pitted" to put it in the Constitution and that the Republic of Croatia is finally moving forward because without it, we are constantly going back and forth and it is suffocating this country. and the Republic of Croatia without it [[Intruder: Thank you]] No way. [[Intruder: Dear Representative...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144519	... Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144520	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, this is important that you finally said that the Republic of Croatia is moving forward, that some positive things are finally happening in the Republic of Croatia, that citizens can live from their work and that they know if one of their neighbours, or respected ministers, has acquired something illegal, that there is a tool, that there is such a law that the state will punish him and secure its incomes. But, unfortunately, there is obviously no political will, here we have shown through this law one political courage, I would not say naivety, but political courage is that we suggest if this is our legal experts, I believe it's a well-hitted topic, there are some misunderstandings that can be corrected, and there's even more to be done and there's political will in the ministry and in the government, they could be able to make amends and fix this bad law, and I dare say that it's very good, just some pain, and it hurts those who have, and we who don't, unfortunately, we have to at least do this. to those problems. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144521	The next replica was supposed to have a respected representative, Culey, gone, lost his right, so the next replica would be the respected representative of Jelkovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144522	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, I believe that your motive when you proposed this law was good, however, I must point out this is a very complex issue and only establishing illegal acquired property is very demanding and I think that, in fact, if we were to make this proposal live, we would kill the tax administration, so I think that we should remain in the same way that the courts who are the only ones who are relevant are to implement and determine whether someone illegally acquired the property, and then sentence a certain punishment after that, because this way I fear that we will in fact challenge the many citizens and citizens who have been guaranteed by the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144523	Dear Representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144524	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleagues that, there are laws that regulate this area and there's a judiciary in which our citizens don't trust, and the reason is because certain court proceedings in these cases last for years and what's particularly bothering our citizens, they haven't heard yet, nor have we seen that, by any law-abiding verdict, any kuna is returned to the state budget, that's what our fellow citizens are interested in, when these money will return to the state budget, and we have witnessed that a lot of state property being estranged through the privatisation of businesses, through tax evasion, and simply that model is obviously not good and we need to have political courage to change it. This law would, of course, bring more work to the tax administration, but I believe there are enough professional people out there who can do it, if not, have them on the labour market, hire them, educate them, give them a chance because between 40 and 50 billion kuna to the budget of the State. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144525	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, any proposal that goes towards preventing any flow of money that does not go towards the state budget, which should go there or the grey economy is commendable. However, also if we adopt or propose such a legal proposal he simply must comply with the positive legislation of the Republic of Croatia, starting with the Constitution through the Penal Code, etc., so this is the topic, this law I would actually start to actually start with that debate with someone or not, I would like to see the legislator of this law implement and one procedure of illegally acquired property or origin of property. Here, I'd like to see if that's possible, and in my debate further try to explain and it's simply not true that nothing has been done in the past. That the grey economy is so catastrophic for the simple reason that the gray economy is the problem of all the countries in the world, somewhere bigger, somewhere smaller. In the Ministry of Finance you have a document that was made by the Economic Institute, the share of the grey economy in the Croatian economy for 2004, '05. and in 06, I think, and on a scientific basis, based on the scientific methodology of the data available, it was done on the share of the gray economy. And don't throw yourself around about the huge percentage of the grey economy, is that as much as you said the percentage in Croatia would be none of this nice and good situation, and as you can see one of the most qualitative things that we get recognition from all international financial institutions as well as from credit rating agencies is fiscal consolidation of the Republic of Croatia. And fiscal consolidation means nothing else to you, meaning maximum coverage and collection of income where Croatia is very highly rated and control of the spending side. So these are the facts. This bill is unfortunately inconsistencies, inconsistencies with the Constitution, inconsistent with the Penal Code, inconsistencies with the General Tax Law, which are the provisions, and in fact the fact that the General Tax Law is not in line with the Income Tax Act, the Law on Profit Tax, the International Accounting Standards, and you can list this series of laws because when you make a solution that someone has achieved something and by doing so you must call upon certain legal regulations based on which provisions and which article you dispute that they have acquired. So these are the facts. Also to colleagues and colleagues who are here for political reasons like to throw away great corruption I ask if, how many colleagues in this assembly know about the statement of political exposure and what it contains in itself and who is obliged to bear it, your, your wife, your father, your mother, your grandfather, your children, if they go into any credit relationship, if they open a jury account and whatever they are obliged to fill out that statement of political exposure. And what's he saying? He says that all these contracts, all these transactions should be paid particular attention precisely because of this exposure. And then you come to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering where every transaction over 1000.000 kuna is and so that it has been reviewed, reviewed, etc., you have a regulation and an internal guidance from the Tax Administration since 2005 that any acquisition of movable property above the amount of 100,000 kuna must have a statement of origin of money, and also this statement of political exposure if you go to any transaction you have to make a statement about the origin of money. So it simply in the IRS exists and you can't say that something's going on that the IRS isn't responding. The tax administration has systemically resolved some things that react and warn that certain illogicalities occur in transactions and all together. And now watch fellow colleagues and colleagues, based on all knowledge and knowledge, have been brought to the OIB, the OIB that was supposed to be the means, the most powerful means to combat corruption. One not indicating an I.D., but through which everything will be seduced in this country. Land books, you know how much ownership in land books has been recorded in Croatia today through the OIB, I don't know if more than 35% of the moment the OIB was introduced through JMBBG was not registered with more than 5% of the property in the land books. Therefore, the OIB is the basis which in the Tax Administration or any other institution in the Republic of Croatia may withdraw certain data. In order not to turn out one way or another, the state's attorney said two years ago in submitting an annual report that since 2005, there has been a link between the State's Attorney's Office, the Tax and Customs Administration with one single reason that the State's Attorney's Office can access the data they need to investigate, and that it is not lembled, which unfortunately in Croatia is a very common practice for the media to discuss some things rather than the investigative authorities. So, the connection between the State's Attorney's Office and the IRS, it was a statement by the state's attorney here from this place here so it wouldn't turn out to be someone saying something. So there are institutions, there are rules, I'm not saying that it can't always be better, it can be better, it can be better, but these topics simply because of the integrity of the institutions must not be the subject of political and political debates. Because at the same time, colleagues and colleagues have cases where the IRS, whether the IRS, whether the IRS, if anyone else identified any particular irregularities, took away his illegally acquired assets, he eventually won a dispute on this at the Supreme Court and the state has to pay off since these years of tight interest were extremely high, he has to pay off a lot of money. And that's why when someone says that the foundation of this law alone could determine someone that they've achieved an illegal property benefit, that his property situation is not covered by his legally acquired assets, he's badly mistaken. Everyone has the right to a lawsuit, and what if after 5 or 3, 2, 5, 10 years, this has been a total mistake and the state needs to pay huge interest. Who's going to be responsible? So that's all the facts. No, at no point in my life, I can't deny the good wishes of the HSS Club, but we run, let's stop politics. To talk here about it happening like this means that the IRS doesn't do anything, that the financial police didn't do anything, that the IRS did nothing, that customs didn't do anything. That the State Inspectorate is doing nothing, that the Ministry of State does nothing, that the State's Attorney's office is doing nothing, that no institution in this state does anything and someone remembers to do one article like this, one reading that isn't called for one legal provision, and it will solve all the problems and all that unhappiness of all state institutions. I just can't agree with that. I believe these institutions are doing their job in a committed and fair manner. Another thing, colleagues and colleagues, something that is not within the legal frameworks is very difficult to catch, so look, the whole world is struggling with it. So when the heat of terrorism started, so Croatia went into that international to say, coalition or whatever you want, about preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. It was then realized that this simply could not be done at the level of one state but that it must be an international movement. And what is very important, then there was an exchange of data on accounts for which it was previously unimaginable that institutions in the Republic of Croatia could obtain that information. These are the facts to be talked about. Because there's no money, there's money somewhere else. But we need to help all these instruments. But in this way, it's as if we're hitting on ourselves because we're part of the bodies that bring laws to the Republic of Croatia. We're part of it. So we had to say that the provisions of income tax, the provisions of the Penal Code, the provisions of this law or that law are not good and that they need to be corrected in order to make the services implemented by those laws more effective. I just can't afford to speak differently from this pay phone. And I accept political evaluations, hitting on you, but it's become modern, someone slapping you one way or the other, but colleagues and colleagues. The origin of your property is a process, sometimes in the former state of income management, you had particularly busy trained lawyers who carried out the processes of origin of the property. And you know how effective there is? Very small. And if you're working in the tax administration, I'll just let you know from 2010, how many procedures have been initiated. Over 2,000 procedures have been initiated and a total disproportionate amount of billions and 417 million kuna has been established. Therefore, it can also be said that 104 proceedings were initiated in 2016, 2017. 73 proceedings and a disproportionate amount has been established between the shown income and assets of 158 million kuna. In 2005, the tax administration had orders that, after every boat show or car fair in the City of Zagreb, collect data in Split, collect information about ship buyers and buyers of expensive cars, and for a simple reason, these new owners can compare their assets, they can compare with what they bought. These are processes conducted in the tax administration. But, I say, I told you about this statement on political exposure, I said, very few people in the Parliament know about this document, but we also heard a lot about political corruption in the course of this debate. So we have the legislation we have. Those laws were passed in this High House. If we don't like them, if we disagree, we suggest their changes and changes. Argumented. This is a law, unfortunately, don't be offended, one read of the general nature of the law inconclusive and another thing, to be open to the end, this law practically proposes legalization of illegally acquired property. That's a fact. You can laugh all you want, but if you pay 40% or 60% tax on something and make it yours now, that's it. That's it. But, I'm saying, the other thing is, it's not in this country in HDZ's power for so many years. This power has been shared over the past years, many have been participated in power and have had the opportunity to propose legal changes and changes. I'm sorry I didn't see that. And today we will hear here unargumented hitting on this or that, but it has a Bible, let the first one to throw away the one who is innocent. This is the Bible, and mankind has held onto it for thousands of years. I'm saying, the HDZ Club can't support a bill like this for the simple reason that it's contrary to a number of other laws, and if you want to determine whether someone, in some company, has shown their profits realistically, you have to look at the Accounting Act, you have to look at the Profit Tax Act, you have to compare to international accounting standards to determine how much his profits are real. And yes, another thing, the Office of Money Laundering Prevention. One independent institution, you have the opportunity to discuss each year in the report of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, to record each transaction over 100 thousand kunas, and based on that, evaluate and evaluate, looking at the data available to them, whether someone has coverage or does not have coverage for that transaction and where it comes from. Whoever thinks differently is wrong, and then he allows himself to muddle institutions. You'd better have, colleague Lenart, you'll get a chance to talk, say it freely, just me, please speak with argument, whoever thinks otherwise, suggest that these institutions function differently. It's simple, better to have a bad institution than any institution. You can make a bad institution, and no institution will do anything to you. So, the tax administration has results, there are indicators, they can be talked about, the Republic of Croatia has a share of the grey economy it has, it's not nearly as big as it's talking about and certain economic movements are making it say that there's a grey labour market economy going on, as unfortunately it's going to happen in these moments, there's just not something. But I repeat, political and political treatment towards institutions of the Republic of Croatia that do their job with value and fairness, is simply not good, is not good. We have to believe in these institutions because at the end of the day these institutions can only be improved and can be better, but if we're going to treat them like this, then it's simply something that's not good, because then we spit on our own country, so let's not talk about how much we like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144527	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats in the name of which the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144528	Dear Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues, HSS has put into practice a law that can solve many problems in the Republic of Croatia. World agencies, so this isn't our fairy tale, have said that in the Republic of Croatia it's darkening somewhere around 50-60 billion kuna a year. They're putting us at the top of the corrupt countries in the world, and now our HDZ colleagues want to say that we've done some kind of reading here, something that sucks, so, of course, you don't like it, but if we want to make a fair country that's unfortunately created in the robbery of individuals while some have rotted in trenches and fought for this country, some have stolen fat, fat, and you all know that, and it's clear to you all. Why did the HSS include the tax administration in this? Tax administration deals with exact science, and that's mathematics, the judiciary doesn't, let's see how the judiciary gives us judgments, today these are judgments, on the second... on the Supreme of the tenth, so we're back to square one again, so when could the judiciary determine any irregularity of this law? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Never, because you control everything. The government of the Republic of Croatia is also controlling this HS. In this HS MPs do not decide what should be passed in these laws, especially those who are ruling, they can never vote on their conscience. So, the government decides what and how this HS is going to take, this HS shouldn't be because it's already decided somewhere. Tax administration, the tax administration has an accountant, there are people who can collect, subtract and share, who can read from the report who is as much as income and who has as easy as they are, without trial, with a tax solution from a clean bill, so here's no fairy tale, this is a clean bill that someone will make to see if someone has taken a significant amount of what they've come up with and no one says you'll get it, you've got a period, so prove where you get it from. Brother dear, if you can't prove where you got the two houses, the cottages, or I don't know what, then it means you stole, no one's letting you go, St. Peter down there, so you got it, but you stole it. And what you can't determine, brother dear, pays the state tax, and taxes can be 100%, right? It wasn't taken away, it was taxed. In order to take someone's illegally acquired pension, they must be tried and proven in court, nothing can be proven in our courts, so look at the trials of Sanader, Vidosevic and many that I don't list them all now, so do you think our people are out on the street being idiots? Well, they're very aware of what happened in the Republic of Croatia, what happened in the '90s, so we inherited from that state industry, the manufacturing plant, where we, we didn't even paint them, 25. This country, half a century old, so we didn't even create 10%, we destroyed what we had, today we could have been a significant economic force in this part of Europe that we kept it and that it didn't get stolen. Look at those angry cars driving around in the Republic of Croatia, see what 20-year-olds have to do with it. They say that one of our colleagues owes $700,000, so my people, if that's true, how can he get paid from the state? There is a mass of what everyone knows, everyone closes their eyes and normally if we at HSS were aware that HDZ would not let go of this law because there would be an earthquake, there would be tectonic changes in the Republic if indeed those who can't prove what they have, and many can't prove it, had to pay or in some way were left without it. Well, you colleagues know very well how much of the council's salary can be spent and earned. You can neither buy villas nor apartments nor cottages, nor drive in million kuna cars, but in the history of the Croatian state there are such representatives who have made all of this. Recently, we had the same thing, here's the latest history of ministers, from Tolusic, Žalac, Maric, and I don't add any more, so these people don't even eat, they don't dress, they don't have kids, they don't spend their electricity, they can invest it all in, I can't prove it that way. This law is very simple, what those who are afraid of are in sin are simple laws that have been implemented effectively and quickly. We have property cards today that can write whatever you want and no one asks you where you got it. Here's some even forget to put it in the property card so that someone doesn't happen to see what they have. Unfortunately, it happens because many people are untouchable. In this country, the saying is that the law of spiders is a web where small flies are caught, and the bumblebees fly through it, and you can't bring order in the country to steal, so it's clear to everyone who's been involved in whatever levels of government, how it works, they take a percentage on some kind of work, on construction works, who can determine how deep or downhill it is, here sits and the mayors and mayors, they know very well how it works at the lower level, those who are unfair, they take advantage of those who are honest and who work for their citizens, but this is all that happens, this amount of money that disappears in the Republic means that these are small pensions, that they are low wages, and that is why they are big giving on these salaries. Yesterday I sat with entrepreneurs who said it's impossible to withstand such payloads. You want to pay a man 8 or 9.000,00 kn, and today you have to slowly give it to the waiter, the mechanic, the builder, you have to give so much money that no one can stand it, and then what happens? It happens that jobs are done in every way possible to manage to overcome all these obstacles that the state places. So, on the one hand, countries on those who work and do work, they hit the maximum, and on the other hand, those who steal that money that was put into the Treasury and who should serve to develop this nation and this country, they alienate it in many ways, and we do. Those who could pass a law like this, they don't want to accept it with a lot of objections, so that law is not harmonised, it's not constitutional, it's not this, it's not that, so normally, whoever wants to solve something, he's looking for a way to solve it, and whoever doesn't want to, he's looking for a way not to solve it. So dear colleagues and colleagues, we live in a country that has had huge corruption in almost all governments, this corruption is growing and growing today. Here I can only remember the government of Jadranka Kosor who mentioned a zero degree of tolerance to corruption, but unfortunately it didn't last long in HDZ. Political elites, stakeholders have created such a network that is very difficult to expose or break through or through the judiciary to collect what has been kidnapped. Thieves, in this case tax evasion isn't caught when he steals, but when he spends, when he spends, because the ones who took the Mercedes, so when you have a 20-year-old who's got two cars worth 100-150, and then you ask yourself, I wonder, am I stupid? With what I'm doing, I'm in the business of agriculture, I'm black as a fool, and I don't have any cottages, no apartments, and in my career, I've had decent salaries both as a mayor and as a secretary of state, and then I wonder where those people went to school, I'd go there or to that course in which way you get it. But all of these will not end up being happy, they create their own problems and will be far more difficult in their lives than they think money can be solved. Overcoming an inefficient judiciary is one of the fundamental things of this law and everyone who wants to solve something, and unfortunately, the judiciary won't be able to solve whether or not the judges themselves had to deliver the property card until the next day, in order to see where their property came from and what they got. Therefore, the law will come to the vote if you in HDZ do not want to support or you gentlemen from Club Milan Bandic, and you should only be the first to prove that you are not part of it. If you support this law, believe that many things in the Republic of Croatia will change, there will be a lot of things at the beginning, but with years it will be seen that this is a very good, very simple law and if, of course, the ruling will resist all power to mock this bill, but the HSS will persist on this whether in opposition or if it has the opportunity to exercise power. We will try to reduce this part of corruption of 13.5% of GDP to the lowest possible measure. Of course, we are also aware that corruption exists in all societies in this world, but not all societies at the top of that scale like the Republic of Croatia. There are many cases behind us that simply prove it inconclusive, the last of you Agrokor di is one company that is significant for the Republic of Croatia because it has been involved in food production, distribution, processing, packaging has simply disappeared, it has gone into foreign hands, 33,000 hectares of state agricultural land throughout the Republic of Croatia has ended in foreign hands, do you think it is an accident? I believe that it is not and I do not blame those who wanted this land under their own control, but blame those who lightly allowed it, have easily allowed the most significant Croatian resource, agricultural land, and remember that only woman and country are born has gone under the control of foreign investors. The sources of drinking water, all of which were very well oiled to get it and use it in the future. Therefore, all these political trades, the purchase of councilmen, mandates, the destruction of mayors, mayors, machinations, are all due to interest, because as I once said in the Republic of Croatia, it is worth the "who lies, who steals it, who has it, and who has it."
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144529	The next club of MPs is one of the independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144530	Thank you, Vice-President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so here I will seek in a brief debate on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club to express my support for this law because it is important for two reasons. First, because he talks about a subject that, and it seems to me, the government didn't understand the intensity of this law until the end, he talks about a subject that was put under the rug and tries to forget about it in Croatian society, it's true, young generations come, they don't care what happened in privatisation anymore. However, privatisation as one historic process that took place in the Republic of Croatia, a process that was related to the then, all companies or almost all major businesses and, in general, the economy is an extremely important process. Of course, it doesn't need to be approached either on a flat-rate basis, not trivially, nor oversimplified, because it required certain knowledge and it seems to me that today, with a delay, I'm talking about the subject, that people who led the privatisation and conversion had knowledge, they had knowledge, and it's not about the fact that they had passed a good law or good laws, so that those bad implementation ended up like this, on the contrary, they brought very bad laws by the majority of the Croatian population, and that unfortunately they did not bring only a few good things, whether it was about 200 families that were mentioned, 200 rich families or some of them estimated at 2500 people who had direct benefits from these processes, and most of the population remained in that part, you know not without money, that they robbed money, so they took one, and the other people were left out of the money, but most people had no business, which they had been involved in the whole, which they didn't want to do anything, but they didn't need to do much. And the other thing that matters, and I say the government didn't recognize it until the end, is that the government has mechanisms, the government of the Republic of Croatia, the resolution minister can today, even though it rightly says that this law is unarranged, that there are certain discrepancies with other laws, it can bring better legal solutions that, in these circumstances, now that more, if you can no longer take what or return what is unlawfully taken, in the present circumstances you can very much control that these processes are no longer taking place in this way, we still have regrets, and some day they were in HS workers from Međimurje, we still have these intentions to take away workers' jobs, this is the most important task of the government. We see, and today we have had the opportunity to listen to the demands of the employers' association where they say they lack workers and demand a larger quota for the import of workers. The government refused, but says there are about 6,000 workers at the Employment Service who are currently out of work, while doing such processes to make even more workers available to the Employment Service, but these are workers who spent 30 to 40 years in enterprises. And it will be difficult for the Bureau of Employment to retrain those people overnight or allow them to find another job, unless these people leave this country, too. That's why this topic needs to be approached from one broader aspect, and this must be the whole government of the Republic of Croatia, the truth, this is, this is when we talk about the government's manifestion, this has been made by the Ministry of Finance and what rightly warns that certain provisions do not comply with other provisions of the law and that there are certain mechanisms that otherwise the origin of the property is controlled. However, the processes that began in the 1990s are still unfortunately taking place and the government cannot close its eyes. Companies in the Republic of Croatia are operating past the market today, to say largely beyond market legality, and I see the biggest problem here, and through the privatisation process, this has happened today because through various subsidies, incentives to which public competitions, which give certain individuals better access or a better place on the market, others are disabled and we do not have a real competition and therefore we are in big problems, and this is directly related to labour prices. Now, what does this have to do with privatisation? So our entrepreneurship came from privatisation processes, so even the entrepreneur needs to be developed, it needs to be created, it needs to have a tradition in production, one of the important components is tradition and these entrepreneurs today, not everyone, but the good part, in a way they continue the practice that they achieved in the '90s. Let's look at the case of Agrokor, we had laws here, too, about this company. Lex Agrokor, but you think they're in a better position today? Are they really today, the law was passed in order to save their jobs, but in what situation are these people in today? And we are really trying to make the government of the Republic of Croatia and the whole society develop, to give opportunities to the best in society, to the most entrepreneurial, or always all comes down to helping and supporting those who are failures and who continue to keep workers in such places that are not paid enough and adequate. And finally, as far as this law itself is concerned, and the way he predicts at least taxing what is illegally acquired, I personally think that, and here I agree with my colleague Shucker, that in some way we say let's legalize what's been robbed, which is illegally acquired. Unfortunately, in order not to fool Croatian citizens, maybe even a long time ago fellow Royce here in HS when he said, perhaps he was right about what it was, it was, now it's hard to return, the injustice was done, the injustice was done to the workers, the injustice was done to the pensioners, to all those who were taken in the '90s. Here, just take the banks, the banks were excluded from privatisation, the founders of the banks were businesses, and then through these various, look out, these were very complex mechanisms as privatisation was carried out, so through these mechanisms they came up, in fact privatized companies, that people who were in corporate administration, without any kuna with the help of banks in this little awkward situation in which these same companies were the owners of banks, and later, the bank was their most important believer, so its so-called, so-called bank. The management loans, their shares were transferred to that administration, and that's how people came to the property, later the banks were recovered, then sold for a much smaller amount than they were, say that it was the only way to save them, because that's the argument that we recently heard the arguments that the bank that remained in state property was not as successful as in private property, and what at the end of the day we don't know who the banks were, say that they were foreigners, the question whether they were foreigners or people who were at the time the actors of all these events under those laws that were not good, but they were laws, and we have to take into account that privatisation was done by the laws of whatever they were, the truth is that the audit had found and a lot of irregularities, even such bad laws that they had been affected them, were not enough, so they wanted to take advantage of them too. So, considering all this as opposition representatives, we will support this law because it carries one message and despite the government's saying that it's not, it's not well prepared, it's carrying a message, a strong message, that in these areas of the '90s there's been a robbery, a social one, in the so-called '90s. Social property has been converted into, and privatizing, the first is actually... State, and then private, however, these processes took place in various ways to get individuals to property without money, so it wasn't privatisation, it was simply robbery. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144531	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144532	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today is my last speech on behalf of the Living Wall Club in HS and today is also forgiveness from my colleague Bunjec with whom I have been more than 2 years. shared the constituency bench. I would, however, like to refer to the current item of the agenda, which is the Law on the examination of the origin of the property or the confiscation of illegally acquired assets. The law was first abolished by those who were doing the conversion of Croatia from one system to another and in fact by abolishing the Law on the Study of Origin of Assets was in fact the highlight showed what its goal was, which is the purpose of the finality of that transition and what their plan is for themselves. It is clear to all that laws cannot be retrograded and it is clear that unfortunately this law will hardly reach them. But what matters is that a message is being sent to a particular society, but I am also aware that HDZ will reject this law and that this will actually send the same message to society. So today from this pay phone, or when there's a vote, we're going to show each other what our position is and what our position is. My position is clear, it's not right for the state to rob itself, it's not right for a few people to kidnap the state, hold it hostage, privatize all public institutions or in some way occupy them, and actually the people live under pressure, under increasing pressure to lag behind other countries or live in even worse than they have lived, etc. Of course, the ruling will say that they have nothing to do with it, however, I leave the court to the public to decide whether they have the current power, as well as the one that was, to do with it. The fact is, this government has no vision, their future is dark. The future with them is dark for the people, for them will probably be a bright future, they will calm themselves, but the Croatian people will unfortunately not go well. I would just like to say one more absurd thing about how many of our citizens don't have a settled housing issue, how much people struggle to find sub-optimal accommodation they can't find because they don't have money to pay with, but at the same time the government is helping people like that, to get out, to help solve people's housing issues, the government is setting up apartments for third-world migrants who will live in them for free. So, while our citizens have nothing to pay rent and directors from, while they're moving out, the government instead of making a return programme for our citizens from abroad or helping those who are already there. who haven't moved out yet, to live with dignity, not the government that doesn't care at all, the government, like I said, is setting up apartments for migrants. It's better that they've edited, that they've made some new dormitories for students, but it's one thing that our wishes and wishes are the great majority of our society, and the other is that they are the wishes of the puppet government, well, thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144533	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144534	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary, here we are, in fact, facing the law that has been proposed, basically a law that speaks about everything that would happen in the Republic of Croatia through this law and through this debate, we would actually have to come to certain conclusions, is it simply when citizens, people, people, ordinary talk, then they are not clear enough. We are currently in the Republic of Croatia who have these resources, potentials, we see that 2/3 of the Republic is empty and of course the question is always that the blood created state that is being defended is essentially against great Serb aggression is very dramatic when we see that the Republic of Serbia is now empty. For what? So simply those who are at levels, here's the local self-government, I can start from my city, they didn't have, who didn't have 5.00 kn in their pocket, suddenly became the richest. Of course, from the former regime, we must always say that there was, there is still the problem of people who had their own property, their own apartments, and now someone else has tenant rights, so the triba in all systems says that it was one property disorder... , but the fact that now that we look at our potentials and resources, why is the Republic of Croatia at the top of corruption? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So simply, the Republic of Croatia has given its example of telecommunications, which is also a national security source, a source of national security, in foreign hands, what man has paid for. So someone got in the pocket, then ran it, I don't know who, Mudrinic, this, what, I don't know how it was, so it became property foreign. Who started the privatisation? Privatisation began during HDZ and ended the SDP. When did he finish? He ended up when a decision was made here about Ante Gotovina when those times were the generals and those times then the privatisation that SDP had completed was completed. Also INA, national resource, energy giant, is also amazing that MOL will become the owner who is much smaller than INA, that it will become, no one knew that it would become MOL owner of the INA instead of being vice versa, right? However, he became the owner and that privatisation started with a white-eyed SDP, remember Slavko Linic, but he ended HDZ, was convicted, so far we have a verdict according to the former prime minister, I will not mention the name at this time, but at that time I opposed his policy, however, the INA was started during the SDP, ended with HDZ, so it is not a matter of people and members, it is a matter of politics and those people who then managed those resources and of course we have 2/3 of RH empty, of course we have 2/3 of RH empty. We have examples where former directors who were companies owned or owned by an institution or companies owned by a state, then for times of socialism, that they simply became owners, they and their children, so that is one continuity, one continuity disproportionate to wherever we go. Maritime well is corruption, remember the Golden War, the Golden War, the golden pearl and so is maritime good, all beaches are also sources of drinking water. Here's the case of Agrokor, 10 billion kuna was used by Agrokor without a bond covering. Agrokor used 10 billion kunas without cover, and today we have people in the CNB that justify it, so 10 billion kunas, what's a direct blow, I've raised and a criminal report. I have an example in my town where the money intended for the weapon went into private pockets, which was meant for the '90s to buy weapons and never came back, I don't know where that money was. So, we have countless questions where it's being asked, so I repeat again, the system in communism has taken away people's property, it's been unfair to certain people, but when this country came, then a similar model was taken over, so literally and similar people, from the same branch and they continued, so they were robbing the Croatian state while defending themselves with blood, and that's a fact, so that's what people were doing. When we see agricultural land and we don't protect it, why don't we protect it? Since 2020. The country will be able to sell itself, I was giving amendments, let's remember that we were building roads, that five times at a time there was more expensive road, car road, that then a car or gram of iron in the Croatian highway was not invested from the Republic of Croatia, one gram. So, all of these were things that weren't protected by a local man, and that's why we have failed ironworks, so we have a failed factory of Dalmatian women in Sinj that workers can't achieve that right while others have created empires on the work and sweat of these workers and it's all very simple. However, in this law, you say taxation of disproportionate property with 60%, it might be a tribal to redefine although I know what MOST was doing, MOST has taken a number of legislative initiatives in terms of disproportionate property to extend the deadlines, when Minister Maric suggested that it be up to 2006, and not to be these behind, so it was disproportionate, it could be disproportionate to tax laws, this disproportionate property is resolved, I think it's part of the tax law, the disproportionate property to pay for the disproportionateness to the deadlines that we have, there might be deadlines down, we proposed then, and something increased the deadlines along with the scale of property, you can confirm that. So, I think the problem here is the biggest, so the judiciary, the investigative bodies, so that's the DORH, the State's Attorney's Office, and everyone who just has to strengthen their function, whether they have enough material technical means, that they have enough knowledge, that's the question now, but I think any initiative of this nature is acceptable to talk about this, that this is what they're talking about, here and to come to the conclusion that they're sending a positive message to the disappointed people, because here I say 2/3 of RH are empty, I compared the two things that are privatized to not only saying that they were doing it, and the other ones aren't, is it third, is it fifth, it doesn't matter at all. So, crime knows neither corruption nor the party, nor I mean, let's be realistic, nor the party, of course there will be disagreements, there will be all of it, but there is no known trail, I have described it on two examples of how telecommunications was privatized, and in what way they privatized, as INA went into Hungarian hands, one begins, the other ends, but not the triba means to generalise and only one side transfer the problem, I think corruption is a huge problem, that we are at the top of corruption, I have given them certain laws, here are examples of telecommunications in terms of the rights of service, in terms of building permits for their facilities, i.e. Athens pillars, not accepted here, while throughout Europe they have to pay for it and telephony operators have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia. I don't think we should do this as HS allow the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia to have, and we're the first in corruption, we're the first in corruption, and the Internet is at the bottom, on the Internet, on the speed of the Internet, and everything we're trying to have is at the bottom. So, we have to with this as a legislative body bring all the laws that foreign companies as telecommunications operators act in the Republic of Croatia as in their own countries. It is the minimum minimum, but it is immediately suspected of corruption is it impossible to disappear overnight that telepliers will pay before the adoption of the Law on Electronic Communications, but it is good to disappear from the public debate, to delete, it was at public hearing and e-consultation, that they will pay not only the owners of the right of service, the right path, but that they will pay both to property managers and the prime minister to meet with this director i.e. With the HT administration's representative, it was wiped out in the morning. You know how much damage these are to local self-government, for owners, the most good are the complete infrastructure going towards units of local self-government of other institutions, ownership of the state country, the other goes through private particles, so your, so here people know, people paid for 2,000 marks, 1500, 3000, I don't know how much, how much, they paid for a phone connection, not just a connection, but a complete infrastructure that went into private hands and today they have the highest profit, here they charge the right of service, 400 units of local self-government are prosecuted by courts. County roads have damage to it, local, state-owned, unclassified, huge damages, so there's a problem that we don't have the courage to accept certain laws and legal initiatives, and in this way we opt for corruption and certain dynasties to be managed, the dynasties run by the Republic of Croatia, in this case it's the Misetic dynasty that manages, has a lot of influence in telecommunications and these are problems, and I think it's time for good legal initiatives, I said that we as the MOST Club gave a set of judicial reform, meaning the legal framework that will now be enforceable, the Republic doesn't even have bad laws, but are not being implemented or implemented selectively. Is it how to explain now to Dalmatian workers that those, from Sinj, can't get the right to their earnings earned? How do you explain it to them? That the state responsible for the company's collapse will take the taxes, that's what I asked, your ministry, the prime minister promised me here that the workers would get these ten million kunas that they had asked for and what they had sought and what they had achieved labour law, but the state took it regardless of what the state was essentially guilty of being the owner of the Dalmatian, which is guilty of the failure of that company of the blue factory at the end of Dalmatia. So also with the constructor, so also with the coloring of the tunnels, so it's amazing, here I will repeat once again, that in the Republic of Croatia when the car road was being done, the gram of iron was not from the Republic, then the Split Iron, we had problems with Sisak, that the iron was imported and that five times more expensive came price per km along the highway, but what the tribal would be, so how many times only the tunnel of color could have made 6 tunnels of the Holy Rock, so everything here is clear and what the law we have and what MOST suggested, the initiatives, unfortunately, are not accepted here, I'm sorry that they don't accept. We are not ready, here we are today, and the MOST Club has and given the amendment of the Constitution, the initiative to amend the Constitution, the proposal, it has come to all clubs, I hope that all colleagues will sign that water enters the Constitution as a public good, as a right of every man, and not exclusively the right of individuals and only the market of multinational companies, but I personally fear that our children will be, have the exclusive right to have money to buy water, so today two billion people in the world don't have the right to drink water, so we need to protect that there is no exclusive right only one who has money, on water, it has to be inexclusive right, the right of every man to water is free, but today two billion people in the world have the right to drink, so if we allow it to be corruption, someone here will allow multinational companies and the EU, and the European Council will be, and of course, subject to the right of every human being the right of water is now that it is the right to be the right of freedom to be the law that it is necessary to be the law of society, so it is necessary to be necessary to be in the link with the law, the law, so that the law of the law of the law of the law, the law, the law and the law, so that the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law asset management, state property agricultural land. So, in many areas, legislation must protect public well-being. We had, we didn't have the strength to protect our sea, the exclusive economic belt, it's the same part of corruption, we didn't have the power to protect agricultural land, and I believe we'll protect at least water and it'll be the right of all of us, not just the exclusive right of individuals who have money. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144535	Now we'll move on to an individual debate and the first one will speak to the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144536	Thank you, dear Vice President. Unfortunately, we have become a society that has a large group of untouchable people who protect these laws that say that such a law is unnecessary, that there is already everything written in the laws, which are essentially laws that protect a group of untouchable people where the tax administration may not even come. It is regrettable that it is very difficult in the Republic of Croatia to access data, including for us MPs in HS who should get a lot of insight if we are looking for, by answers or by the ministries or by some agencies, we are wronged by our questions and never want to answer exactly the questions that we ask when these issues are concerned. Here's a colleague before me in the debate mentioned a unique birth number and an OIB and you know what's interesting about it? So, the moment the unique birth number or the JMBG was abolished, where all the tax duties and all the assets of the holder of that JMBG were recorded, they simply disappeared with it. For almost two years, it's been waiting with the introduction of the OIB, so what was on JMBG wasn't re-painted to the OIB, all those assets in charge, and that was in those '90s that got away, they just disappeared. They simply disappeared, and apparently that's why JMBG was abolished, not the protection of some private data, which was a cover to remove JMBG. But the tragedy is that we have to the pain of an inefficient judiciary today, we are all aware of it, that the Croatian people are also aware and expect that such a judiciary affects the reduction of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is unrealistic, it is clear to small children in kindergarten that it will not be resolved in this way, so that citizens are running away from us regardless of the European countries such as Ireland, Germany and some others where the law and the judiciary function very well, and they are aware that they have to pay there what is their duty, that they have to act in accordance with the laws because they know that if they break the laws that punishment will be very quickly reached, which is not the case in the Republic. So, all those who have fat accounts, who have power, who can afford expensive lawyers, easily bypass the law, through the holes in the law very easily come to freedom, not only in these tax evasions, but we also see traffic violations with fatalities where many simply malts not without punishment, and they have angry cars that probably came from what we're talking about here today. Today in the Republic of Croatia, it is in fashion to transfer its property to children underage, to grandmothers to parents, to transfer it to the fair, there to cover somehow this trail of acquisition of the property and the price, the purchase prices of the property and the severances of some who have been granted to those people who have opted for it, materially and resuscitated. Unfortunately, the confirmation that there is a large corruption in property, large corruption in the Republic of Croatia is also quite a number of people who are about 20 years old. Ages that have property large, unreal to expect and that they could in a fair way or legally in those years and acquire it, honor the exceptions that they made, which can thus prove it. It's not the stories I make up, it's full of media, look at the media, the portals that write about it all, and no one's denying them. After that, boastful behavior and many of the calamities that have taken place. Some say in discussions that this bill is unconstitutional, that all that should be solved in this problem illegally acquired property is tax evasion, everything in these laws says. Well, dear gentlemen, it is also unconstitutional that this robbery of the Republic of Croatia is happening, and the withdrawal of taxpayers' money in various ways is unconstitutional. Again, it is not my invention, the foreign agency has determined that 50-60 billion disappears in the Republic of Croatia annually, which is a significant figure for the Republic of Croatia. The foreign agencies have found that we are at the top of the scales of corruption, so it's not HSS's invention, but our proposal of this law is to try to solve it, to try to reduce that corruption and the disappearance of state money, so that there's more money for health care, we see that health is cramping in debt, even if it's a corruption engine, but if we just cut it by half of what it is, we'd have money and health care as the Croatian people deserve, we'd have money and for the decent pensions of people who've done their working life, and today they have to dig through containers and search for food and clothing in containers, and today they've raised this country on their feet, they've educated us and not just their children, but they've trained and foreign children through free colleges, and they've provided many apartments, and today they've been digging in winter, and they've got no money in their homes. Therefore, I appeal to all of you that if it is necessary to modify this law, but not its essence that this business handles tax administration, as I have already said, these are the people who are dealing with the bill, mathematics, and in mathematics it is 2 and 2 always 4, so these are the people who need to be given power and power through legal frameworks to calculate who took what is illegal and who has to do it in some way back and that in the future it doesn't occur to him or that they think less of doing such things. It's the essence of this law, whether we're going to modify it a little to the left or right, whether you're going to engage in the ruling structure, so add, but normally, like I said, not changing being. This law will not accept only those who have fingers in the jam, they will certainly not accept it because of the fact that they do not want to give up what they have gained in this way, which someone has made possible through their legislation that has been drawn up over the past 20 and a few years, which in some legal way enables the taking of state money, the taking of money to the poor who pays it through tax fees, through VAT, through a bunch of different taxes that they have to pay. So, colleagues, if we want to change this country, and it's time to start changing it, it's the last time, because otherwise from the Republic of Croatia we'll be left with only an anthem and a flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144537	Next individual debate of Honorable counsel Steve Cole, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144538	Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Lenart, we missed the opportunity to change this country the moment we were the only ones who cared about that country, and these are the Croatian defenders when we put them on the side of this society, then the last chance to arrange the Croatian state disappeared. As far as your law goes, you won't believe it, but I'll be in, no matter what you say, comment or otherwise. Why am I going to talk like this now? Well, I've been on the paper as one of the richest HDZ representatives who owns half the village. Well, if you look at the map, it's not exactly like that, the property, and maybe it's due to me becoming a rich man overnight, one of the illegal legalizations that we managed to introduce to the minister of former Mrak Taritash, who managed to get Croatian citizens to report all the things they had to do with their sweats, the troubles, the blisters, so I happen to be a big-time owner some mail, how to report 50m2 of some garage you used to do in the lower yard the way the neighbors start and pigs, and you adjusted when you're older not to climb up the stairs into the house, so you have to type in, so there's a 50m2 apartment in there, so when you type in a yard building that's made of rails, old constructions and old beavers rips, and how you report it, but an economic facility you do something in there's a parking lot. You've got to sign up for working machines, and he's a working machine no matter how much he's worth. Well, since we know how many emigrations are from Slavonia, and that the house can be bought for 4,000,00 euros with the garden even, perhaps even lower if the man is hit, if he really misses the ticket to leave the Republic of Croatia, so you can guess, there. So I'm going to have to change my property card, which has fallen drastically in the sequence of these circumstances, but I'm going to tell a story that's very interesting, and those who are older remember, and it would go like this. And our finance minister, Slavko Linic, was in 2001. said he, too, would be in certain circumstances, and that is if there were no sanctions, and it is even more important that no one notices you and he steals, the finance minister. So, when we had one such moral vertical in our institutions, it was clear to us, and how many were there who had the chance to steal because someone had given them a chance. So someone closed their eyes to one eye, he got the opportunity and he got the bail and he's now a respected businessman, it's been a while, he's turned into an entrepreneur, a businessman, and that. Not only are I talking about those famous brushes from Gunja 280,00 kn, that we're not talking about the price of a 1700 m2 square square, not talking about families, wives, children of politicians who have millions of Euros in their accounts, that we're not talking about it, so we're not talking about our presidents, the ones who were bagging around Australia, so they dropped checks of hundreds of thousands of dollars, EUR, stamps, everything that was there, they were losing track of. And in the end, what's left of us? We've got to get our kids ready for buses and send them to some better, fairer, more quality built societies, and maybe they come back to us one day with newfound knowledge that they'll adopt there because there's a little bit of luck in every accident, so they won't be able to break down here with us. We know well, we know very well how it works here, so here today shows just like many others, you don't need to be here at all and you don't even have to come, the living room goes, it's enough to get someone down the card. When I was working in the drive of Đura Djakovic's special vehicles in Slavonski Brod, when you entered the factory circle, there was a machine at the door, next to him was a porter, and you were pulling a card where you hit exactly the time you came in, when you went out for a break, when you left work, and there was a manager inside who took care of what you did that day and earned, so someone ran that clock, whether it was in a hat or in the form of some technology that someone had at the end of the working time verified, so you got paid and stimulated or got nothing or got an ass card and a leg up your ass. And so I quit a lot, about 30th time I was a special police commander, among them one of my best man, and I say to this occasion, godfather and all of you who got fired I didn't have to, and I thought it was worth it, that we all had to be worthy of our jobs, do our best, but here I'm pretty sure, we shouldn't have been so busy, we should've been so busy, we should have been so busy, we should've been stealing, so we'd become a respectable part of this society. And the old famous story, while we were at war, they were robbing the state, and who were they? The same ones I bought one night, that's the night when it was on the trailer of one Osovinka, when Ferguson dragged dozens of masked Croats and Croats, it was in the Dnevnik at half eight, the stationery was 1.200,00 marks, after the Dnevnik was 1.500,00 marks, and one bullet was 2.00 marks, it was sold to you by Ivo Delić, the famous entrepreneur from Austria whom I greet and say when-then you'll have to pay me back the difference of 300,00 marks and all that went so well, so that I don't tell you the privatization of the Bosnians, the companies in which my father was among others, among the first to plant the first fruit trees, where I also spent my youth working, and where my son is now starting to work as a tractor, let him work, let him be worthy and do do his work there especially when we now see that some of the light coming from the tunnel, because some of our tunnel is going to build up from our own. And maybe because maybe a stranger manages it. But they won't forget the one who robbed those Bosnians and he was the famous famous Mikulić who butchered the Bosnians and it's still the worst thing he's ever given his father for Christmas is eight children fired. I guess that's what he gave him instead of Christmas. I don't know who he is and whose godfather he is but I know that his best man was sitting in the Croatian Parliament, he was the President of the Parliament. I don't want to call him by myself. This is the kind of Croatian history that Croatian defenders could not influence because no one gave them a chance. And if they had given us a chance, she would have been like last Friday when I went to the police department at 8:00 in the morning and reported to a fellow parliamentary representative of our Milorad Popovec for complicity in the possible and responsibility of the disappearance of Dr. Schretter. So it would seem to you that the Croatian defenders led this country. And as much as I'd quit, let's not even think about it. And how much you'd end up in jail, for me. And by the way, I'm just still sorry that your president wasn't here because I was a 25-year-old cop when he was naughty, too, so I told him he was lucky he didn't run into me when I was active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144539	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144540	Dear colleague Culey, here's a thank you for supporting this bill as a member of the ruling majority. It is a confirmation that it is not in vain written and that there are people who still recognize what we want to do with this legal solution. I would only correct you, although I sincerely respect the true Croatian defenders, not only those who care about Croatia, but also many people who unfortunately did not defend Croatia were unable to do so, but they love it. The proposal for this law is not directed against rich people, however, Croatia needs rich people, but not rich people according to the Alan Ford model where they kidnap the poor and give to the rich. It takes entrepreneurs who have earned their hands and knowledge of what they have and the fact that they are as rich as possible but not according to the 100 rich or 200 rich families. And let's remember Jože Pancretic, the deceased who said I came as, uh... I've been to many in this House and many are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144541	I'm a colleague of Lenart's. The answer of Honorable Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144542	Every Croatian peasant, especially Joži Pankretić, has been known to become from a small boss to become a big boss. It's from little T25, 28, 40 Ferguson Ursus 60, 80, 120 and more horses. You know how it's going. Every year, the building is being upgraded. First comes the economic building, 1st, 2nd, 3rd pigs and chickens and the rest that goes and finally comes to us a distinguished colleague of Mrak-Taritash, so it takes all of us so much that we can't pay off what they can make up in one wicked law with one goal only to rob, destroy and dissipate those who have created the most in Croatia and Slavonia for centuries, especially those who once called themselves cults.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144543	The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144544	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Culey, in order to have a regulated state, we must have a responsibility, of course we didn't have one. Up to these 25, 30 years of total disorientation of the state by looking at property but we need to know that wealth is not luck, that rich people are not always happy, it is seen from the attached and what is happening both in our country and in the world. We know we've never processed these people who, here, paint tunnels, we remember well, I don't know what happened at the end, nothing likely, we have railroads that go to the Vinkovci nearly five hours that went faster 30 years ago than today. Property applications, certain parliamentary deputies didn't even know when they came in, I first reported my assets. So, we just have to look here for the responsibility of everyone,... Forgived taxes in this country where 40 billion are exempt taxes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder if even one in the world has allowed itself to do so, I believe that it is not a particularly democratic and orderly state. In order for us to be organized, we have to go all by ourselves and then ask all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144545	Answer, the esteemed representative of Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144546	Croatian Police Minister Ivan Vekic wrote in one of his books when the war trumpets were silenced, when the cannons were silenced, then the dignitaries and all the things he holds to himself and put on silk and cadif and will be at the Swedish tables where the glasses will be raised to the stand in the court's manners because we ordinary drink from those double and earthed and all kinds. And then they will say how much they gave for this land, thinking and thinking with their intellect and all the others who listened to those trumpets and those cannons, they will return to their houses, their families, and their land.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144547	Thank you. The next individual debate was to be co-workers of Pernar, he is not, he is losing his right to debate, and the next one will be debated individually by respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with the Director of Tax Administration, colleagues and colleagues. I volunteered for an individual debate for a simple reason to give one additional to say, a contribution to this debate because unfortunately on a very important subject, and I can even say about a sophisticated topic was a lot, a lot of flat-rate reviews, and that's just not good. That's what you just can't let Parliamentarians talk about when we talk about a topic like this or say that someone lifted JMBG to prevent something, so you need to know when JMBG's been abolished and why it's been abolished. He was abolished by that coalition government in 2002. The OIB was adopted when it was adopted as the strongest, as the strongest instrument to fight corruption. And I would remind my colleagues and colleagues that he was brought to this high house practically by consensus, with a commendation of what he and how he should bring and also with opposition from many stakeholders whom the provisions of the OIB were not very good for. Why did the OIB stop at the level at which it was until then after the change of government in 2011. However, it would be an instrument based on which the Tax Administration and other institutions in the Republic of Croatia were supposed to have a practical property and blood picture of each Croat and every company in the Republic of Croatia and a series of other data. So that was the intention. And he came up with some kind of 70% applicability, missing that central register in the IRS, however very interesting that it took us almost two years to change in fact with the Ministry of Justice to change the Law on the Court Register where, in establishing a limited-responsibility society, all founders would be seen through the OIB. Because so far you've had to say 4 people start a limited-responsibility society, you've only seen one, that 3 y'all couldn't see anywhere, but they've regulated their rights and obligations with some kind of stock deal or social contract. But with the introduction of the OIB, you type in an OIB of any of us, he if he owns any company it shows up, and also if that company owns any company that shows up to that by the IIB of the IRS, the State Attorney's Office, the police who already does certain of these items can come up with data. And they're just facts. The second thing is, I just can't agree with my colleagues and colleagues with my flat-rate grades and evaluations. And if that's how you propose the law, then you have a balance assessment, you also have an estimate of how much the application of that law will cost or how much that law will go into the budget. If someone throws away dozens of billions of gray economies, then in this point 3 or 4 of the bill, it should have been said that it was a figure that could be discussed and that so much and so much money would come into the state budget. It's just facts. I, when I talk about this subject, want to discuss the facts exclusively, distanced from any politics and any policy. The second thing is, look at the report on how much the IRS charge is, not counting the 2, 3 crisis years when it was a financial and economic crisis. The tax administration's payment is between 98.5 and 99.5% of the total liabilities imposed and reported to the state budget. This is the result of the tax administration's work. Plus, if I said it on behalf of the club, based on Articles 88 and 89. Income tax law The tax administration in the past 9 years has precisely compared the difference between income and certain assets found by a billion and 400 million assets practically not covered by some kind of profit. These are the facts we can talk about. And I simply, as someone who is professionally tied to the IRS and the Ministry of Finance, cannot allow here because of the many people who do their job fairly without speaking for them and protecting them here. Because I just feel like I have to be their spokeswoman here today, from the people of the IRS. From people from the IRS who do their job fair and square. In every grain, there are dolls, but these people do their jobs fairly and consciously do it for not a very large salary and are repeatedly exposed to very, very pressures. So, you find someone a few million or ten million commitments, then it's not pleasant at all. The second thing, at the moment Croatia joined the EU, when it joined certain institutions, etc., it received a series of data that it could not reach before. As a result, certain processes have been initiated and certain criminal offences have been established that continue to take place today. So the institutions are working. Can I do better? You can always do better. But it's not good, it's not good, it's not good. And the other thing, especially the occasional people who have never done anything like this, is the question is I don't want to offend anyone, are they able to fill out their own tax returns? But colleagues and colleagues, this is a very complicated and demanding job, and we here in this high home have to give support to the institutions to do this job, that there is no political pressure on them and that no one can influence them, and then we will show that we are in the interest of making things or not doing it. About what and how, many of us have had a long series of opportunities to talk about this speaker, you can see what anyone was saying, but I will never allow myself to respect the profession and professionalism to talk on a subject like this. I said on behalf of the club you have cases where people were found to have some differences, they later got court proceedings and the state had to pay them back large amounts of funds. Again, I ask the question, let me say rhetorically, could the author of this bill conduct an examination of one of the origins of the property? I claim responsibly no, he argues responsibly no. Could he, on that basis, highlight a solution? I'm based on this law no, but to anyone you give a solution, he has the right to appeal. If he can't complain about it, he has the right to press charges, if that's just the facts and we're proposing such a law, we have to bear in mind because you're not only running the process, you're putting someone on a stand of shame, you're excluding him from the process of business events and a number of other unpleasant things, but the subject of which is politically and politically to talk nicely, and that's what's wrong, and I said in my first sentence when I spoke on behalf of the club that we support any proposal that will improve what the tax administration is doing, there's only an apostrophy of tax administration here even though there's a number of other institutions involved in this business. And also when you're hitting on HDZ so much, so you know who passed the Policy Party Finance Act? HDZ. Who passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest? HDZ. And very interestingly, they had other opportunities before they passed those laws, why didn't they bring them? And the other thing, someone can't talk about past times as if he wasn't involved in anything, so if nothing else, he was an opposition representative here, and many of them participated in the ruling coalition, they could suggest and they could say something. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, this law is unfortunately not in line with a series of laws in the Republic of Croatia, from the Constitution through criminal law and unfortunately it is as it is proposed is simply inconclusive and that is a fact. In order to get the results proposed by this law, we would have to change at least 15 laws without saying how many regulations and regulations that are in force right now. But I repeat, the tax administration is doing a fair and correct job, their results are visible, it's the revenue side of the budget, it's the surplus of the state budget, and that's what they've all given us as a compliment, and that's the fiscal imbalance that no longer exists in the Republic of Croatia, that's the result of the work of the Ministry of Finance and the tax administration and all that they've been building on all these years, and I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, it's a better bad institution than any institution and let's not hit on the institutions of our own country, so let's mud our own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144549	Thank you. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144550	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, I know that your task is to cloud this debate, but we don't even engage in mud on the tax administration, we praise them if you haven't noticed in this bill, we trust them with the implementation of this law because we believe in this tax administration because we know that they have people who can do it and do it. When you say it's cobwebs, why, tell me, why didn't the data related to JMBG repainted to the OIB and transferred everyone but disappeared? ... I'm saying that, the data that was here all the time I've been getting data from people who worked on JMBG and the suspension and the transfer, it's not data that's connected to JMBG's assets have been painted on the OIB, it's that thing, and I know that you want us to be downplayed that we're ignorant, we don't know, ha my God, I don't know a lot of things in life, I'm talking about what I know, if I've done something wrong, I'll accept criticism from those who know better than I do. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] and try to fix it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144551	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144552	Thank you very much. My friend Lenart, I'm sorry, but at the same time I'm extremely glad that you said about JMBG, it's one of the most hopeless lies anyone could have said. Why? Because everything that's been translated into OIB was the base of JMBG, is the only thing you had as an identification was JMBG, ask people who did it operationally, and you'll see that it's the only way that it was done, and whoever tells you that someone tried to cover something up, it's a simple lie, a simple lie, you can laugh as much as you want. Look, but there's an official document in the tax administration that was found in certain administrative bodies of the Republic of Croatia at the time of the introduction of the OIB, it's some 20 pages of material and I can't simply allow it because of the many colleagues who have worked with me and with current Minister Maric on this project, to expose such faceless untruths, but if you're making such a lie, then my assessment of the opacity of this law is unfortunately true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144553	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144554	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear fellow Shuker, this is exactly what you mentioned in your speech about JMBG and the OIB, and I call on my colleague and Leonard to report it, and that is his obligation and duties, all of these illegalities if he has them, otherwise he is an accomplice, if I am not mistaken, and then he could be prosecuted, and I agree there if he has any illegalities he needs and the obligation is anyone who knows, to report. In fact, what I was about to say, and it's about who's part of the tax oversight? Besides the taxpayers, they're all taxpayers, everyone, so also natural persons, today it's just a matter of how much and why, how are they handled? Is it red in the system if someone after one of the OIBs has been registered at 10 years? income N, and assets N + 100, whether it is visited, private staff determines disproportionateness, but today it is already so. And now you just need to see the extent to which it's done and bring some data, then talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144555	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144556	Thank you very much. A colleague, Churaj, since 2005. there is an information system in the tax administration, starting from the submission of annual tax returns that the system simply responds to the basis of available data if there are certain illogicalities, then the party is called into the tax administration, the information shall be requested from it, either an official note or a record shall be made, and the process shall be followed accordingly. It's just an alphabet about how the administration has to work, and without harassing anyone or publicly lynching them. So, that's something that's done, the result of that and that knowledge is among other things the adoption of the OIB, the OIB Act is simply created as something to be done, then the tax administration has an upgrade, but all the institutions of this country simply have to give information and information, see, whoever's willing to black out some money, he's very well educated and asked for a thousand ways, that's why I'm saying, it's a very sophisticated fight and so let's not think that it can be done so easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144557	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144558	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shucker, I agree with you that the OIB is one good thing that's been done, but for the last five years we can say OK, this is going in some good direction. But I've been a craftsman and an entrepreneur for 28 years, and it's not true that it was right for certain businessmen, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, to open five companies, to stay in debt and nothing happened to them and nothing happened to them, and that's not true. It was all the way back maybe 10 years. Some were privileged and I wasn't involved in politics, I wasn't in any party, but I certainly couldn't do what others did. I don't know what happened to them. Nothing. What's gonna happen to them? Nothing. We had here the last Oil Man that this government didn't stop giving money of 35 billion and I wonder who was taking care of those money and who would be responsible for those same 35 billion of these citizens who gave us all together, these entrepreneurs and those responsible people, actually irresponsible people. It's a question in the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144559	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144560	My colleague Misic, I am not a man who answers my mind, and so I will tell you this story, you cannot tell something about which this Assembly has decided that it has been unknown. Every year, with a proposal for a state budget, you had a proposal for state guarantees. Also, the report on the implementation of the state budget was exactly how many people were guaranteed by the guarantee. So you can't say someone didn't know something. The second thing, here was the debate on the easy opening of companies, it was this while they were in power let's quickly set up companies J.D.O.O., VAT etc. Minister Maric and the finance ministry and this government changed when someone gets to 300 thousand kunas automatically next month enters the VAT system and cannot be covered up. So, and the OIB was brought in just because of what you were talking about, someone can't open 10 companies without seeing it. And that's why the Court Register Act was amended in 2009. I'm talking about facts, I'm willing to discuss these facts, I don't want to discuss anything with you, and you can just hit someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144561	The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144562	You're right when you said this was flat-rate, and before that, we talked about how this law would've been passed if the public consultation had passed and that all the relevant persons had been manifested by the institutions. In addition to interpreting that the tax administration is charging this much revenue in the state budget and the tax burden has been reduced over the last three years, which means that the efficiency of this tax administration is of great quality. In addition to information support, with all forms that can be monitored in quality, there is no crowd to lecture about what was once tax returns because there is a certain automation that makes it much easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144563	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144564	Thank you very much. Yes, fellow Members, it may be a lack of our business because if a group of MPs or some representative club proposes law, the law does not pass all the public debates passed by laws when proposed by the ministries or bodies of the government. That may be a lack, and I can even say fouling to those clubs that propose that law, frankly speaking. It might be a lot easier for the HSS colleagues if the law had gone to a public debate and perhaps they would have made some things different and perhaps otherwise discussed with me today. Therefore, it really needs to be seen that this may be a downside to whoever suggests it because it is always more and more thinking good to do a quality thing. You've said it well, and it should be kept in mind, we in the House should just stand back, let go, whatever you want, of the flat-rates and the evaluations. Why? We're here in charge of passing laws that enlist all our citizens and entrepreneurs. And if we're doing it on the basis of flat-rate grades and evaluations, then that legal provision can't be high-quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144565	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144566	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, I agree with your debate that the tax administration is doing everything to collect all government taxes. However, in order for these results to be better, of course, that there is a need for synergies between all institutions and police and SOA, the DORH and all others, and in that case, perhaps even these results would be better. I consider the intention of this law to be good, talking about honesty and morality. But how much the HSS cares about honesty and morale says they don't have a president here. The president of the HSS is not here where their law on morality and honesty is proposed. He's being defended by Sanader's secretary of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144567	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144568	Yes, you've touched this political issue and it's in place and correct, and it's a good thing you noticed that. However, what is very important is the integration of institutions. I mentioned here that State's Attorney Cvitan once in the debate mentioned that the State's Attorney's Office and the Tax Administration signed a data exchange agreement in 2005. Why? Because simply both three and four, and five, come up with a series of data based on which you can implement extremely complex processes. My colleagues and colleagues, determining what's written here in this reading, I'm not going to tell the law, but the reading is a very, very complex story. Because a lot of that money is somewhere across the border, and without international connections, it's that. However, I could speak here today and then we wouldn't be enough 15 minutes on behalf of the club but should speak for two hours, take just the situation with VAT where you can pay it today, where the place of taxation with customs etc.. And you, if you're not informationally connected, if you don't communicate here's a moment of tax fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144569	Thank you. A colleague of Lenart's raised a violation of the Rules of Procedure on a colleague of Shuker's. Which is where he hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144570	Dear Vice President on fellow Uncle...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144571	No, no, you're on a fellow Shucker, sorry, up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144572	A fellow uncle was talking, so I picked up then.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144573	And look, you can't, you can already pick up someone who spoke two hours ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144574	All right, let's get a colleague of Shucker here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144575	What did he hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144576	Article 238 was injured here I wasn't, I'm sorry, my colleague Shucker, but it's for Uncle, I wasn't the Secretary of State of Sanader, Maybe a colleague was a minister. [[That's what my colleague Shucker didn't say at all.]] I was the secretary of state in the government of Mrs. Kosor, with Minister Byce, so if you don't know, don't talk nonsense. I apologize to my colleagues for misusing his name, and then here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144577	I'm giving you a warning about the abuse of the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144578	Injury 238. The HSS has participated in a coalition government with HDZ since the end of 2007. The late, with all due respect, HSS President Frišcic then signed the coalition, counterpart Pankretic was deputy prime minister, counterpart Bajs was minister of tourism, and you were secretary of state. And that's the only truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144579	I'm asking you, I'm also giving you a heads-up from my colleague Shucker and I beg you, please, let's stop this nonsense of injury to the Rules of Procedure, which are not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You want a warning, too? Come on, fellow Striker, tell me what you have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144580	Thank you very much. Article 238 was injured, so my colleague Leonard was telling the lie, and I am sorry that he was ashamed of that part of his resume when he was a secretary of state. No one forced him to be State Secretary, he could say I don't want to be in that HDZ government of Prime Minister Sanader's State Secretary, he stayed until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144581	My colleague Uncle and you hurt this abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I'm also giving you a warning. Okay. Now, on behalf of the promoter, I'm not giving you my word, I'm not giving you my word because I'm sick of it, I'm not giving you my word. I gave that warning. [[Intruder: But colleague Stickak is false.]] Is it true or false? He abused, he abused the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure [[Intruder: Have you stressed that it is false?]] To tell a lie? [[Intruder: You did not emphasize that you were telling the truth.]] I'm not the one who assesses whether you or he's telling the truth, nor will I ever colleague, please. [[/Intruder: So there are dates of the appointment solution which Mr. Strick doesn't know, no.]] Don't argue with me [[Intruder: And that in the last cabinet session I resigned.]] I'm giving you another warning. Don't let me throw you out. [[I'm afraid I have to, Mr. President.]] I know, but you still have it, the shame stays on you, you're not aware of it. [[I'm glad you're giving me 2 notes so we're done, thank you very much.]] Here's a colleague of Vlaović's. [[Well, it's a shame on you, I'm afraid.]] Here is my colleague Vlaović, on behalf of the promoter, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144582	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Director of the Tax Administration, here on behalf of the HSS Club, and on my behalf I thank all clubs, all the representatives who took part in the debate and what I would like to point out that I am glad that most of them were saying that this is not a bad idea and that we really need to take steps and shifts in society to reduce this Octopus of corruption in Croatia. Everyone agreed that this is one big problem in all countries of the world because it exists, but it is a fact that in Croatia there is Croatia's corruption perception index with some African countries. Why is it so certainly her fault only the IRS and I here on behalf of all the members and members of the HSS say there are honest and honest people in state institutions and the IRS and they do their job well. But the question is, what tools do they have, what tools do they have? Because this law that we have proposed should have been another tool in the hands of the state, a tool in the hands of the Tax Administration to grab into that mass that corrupt activities are also made in Croatia. Whether it's 20, 30, 40% I wouldn't be outsmarting it, these are the figures we mentioned and what international institutions said corruption was present in Croatia. And if we're gonna get rid of her, then we've got to get serious about business. It's nice to hear that the IRS is a tax charge of 98%, 99%, it's nice to hear and that there were 2,000 cases where there was a lack of value in assets compared to revenues, but what's behind that, which is that the judiciary is unfortunately the way we have in Croatia and it needs to be changed urgently, to make justice reform more effective, because there is a key problem which is ineffective, and only 158 million kunas as said Mr. Schuker has been operated through court rulings. That's too little, and that's what tax administration didn't blame them for. They did their job. And we're just going with this bill of law to get this job out of the judiciary because it's overloaded and it's what it is, I've already said the grades. And we give it to that institution, which is the Tax Administration that has professional and quality personnel and that has through this law and through other laws tools to make 98% available and not 10% as it has been so far. Is that possible? Well, it's possible that all we need is political will, of course, and the law still needs to be done, to bring it in line with 15 other laws,.../incomprehensible/... other 15 laws. So if we seriously want to catch work to prevent corruption in Croatia, is the problem changing 15 laws, so I think that if there is political will it should not be a problem or a change of these laws, nor those regulations and regulations concerning this area. It is essential that the Tax Administration have a tool, where it finds that, in relation to their incomes, they own property that is n times larger, and they have no evidence of it, can immediately create a tax solution and impose on those persons, and according to the Constitution, all the laws apply to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live and work there and have business capacity, so there is no discrepancies in the property, property that is inalienable, but those who have illegally come to property are first taxed, and secondly to file criminal proceedings against them, and then in criminal proceedings solve property, there would be no legalisation of illegally acquired property, as it is said in the debates. So that's what we predicted, obviously you didn't read it all. It is also important to point out that since 1986 there has been an established tax information system in CEOP and that, based on this, the tax administration has issued solutions and has used it as a tool for making tax solutions and through JMBG, it has been further strengthened with all the elements that were inside, and the OIB is also a tool that needs to be further upgraded and it is not good that only 30% of the assets through the OIB are in grant and cadastre, and there we need to make efforts to change it for the better, we cannot agree with that, we have and it is not enforceable for that reason, so I think that money should be invested in the State Geodetic Authority and land-building, particles zk. The correct procedures and speed up those procedures, part of it was done and then suddenly stopped. Also another important tool is the JOPPD form, a report on income tax and tax returns, and contributions to compulsory insurance. So we have data to figure out how much someone has property, how much income they don't need this art, this tax expert based on these elements can easily, it's possible to say something else, I just don't see any reason to reject the law just because it's proposed by the opposition, it's proposed by HSS, it's got some normative mistakes, which is not in line with other laws, that it's true will, until the second reading could be corrected today with the amendments and tomorrow through a public debate and you said that it's not good that this business thing was set up to me by opposition clubs, and others suggest laws without public debate and without compliance with other state bodies, but, so the government at its session, probably before the session consulted all the ministries and could give us suggestions and to say, to get back to the law, not simply refused to get paid by the law, because the law of the government had already been in the law that they wanted to be in order of the law. Why don't you grab it and see? And the proof of that is that there was also a shift in the head of tax administrations, including punishment against them. So that was in the Republic of Croatia, but that property remained in the Republic of Croatia. Why don't we just charge and make money because it's our money, it's taxpayers' money because we're part of the EU, that common market, that capitalism, but we want it to be one fair capitalism, and the foundation of fair capitalism is tax paid, and Trumpov is the biggest blow, the strongest tool, tax collection. Only countries that have paid taxes, only those who respect their country, you and the tax on the state, are real patriots who pay taxes to their country and we want us all to be in the Republic of Croatia because it is unacceptable for us to say that this is some kind of political pressure and that political pressure should be removed from all the laws, including this law, I agree, but why there is then political pressure on the implementation of certain laws and evidence, we are not all equal to the law and here and now political pressure on the Commission to examine conflicts of interest. Why are there political pressures? In order to protect some seniors on the scales from questioning whether they are in conflict of interest, let alone what else might come next, so I think you rightly claimed that political pressure should be removed, but let's get away from ourselves. Here, I ask you to reconsider when voting for this bill, I think it is useful for the Republic of Croatia to have this tool through this law to charge taxes on illegally acquired property and to finally show the citizens that they can trust institutions and agree that the tax is to be trusted, so they are as green as HSS, when you get a solution from them with a green press, they are all afraid, but not to be afraid, there is a tax to be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144583	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144584	Thank you very much. My colleague Vlaović, I honestly have to admit this final word of yours I like in a certain way, but I would just like to update what I've been trying to discuss all along, I think it's a big mistake that you're not well, not you, but whoever wrote this law, studied the provisions of Article. 88th, 89th, and up to the mountains. You will see that in your article. 89. all the explicit writes and then you have still in the Income Tax Regulation that further elaborated and that you, in any provision of this law, have referred to the provisions of Art. In 89, that law would sound a lot different, then they'd come to it on their own, to realize that there's still a series of laws to be changed. Why? Because in art. 89. tells you that the tax administration in collecting these data on natural and legal persons must also use the help of some other bodies, and that's what I was telling you on behalf of the club that you need to change a series of laws that this law would be enforceable and operational. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144585	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144586	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrade Shuker, here's a thank you for saying in a certain way that we in good faith went with this bill of law and that the tax administration would get the tools to charge for it. Of course we are ready to cooperate and that all the suggestions that you have made and which still need to be fixed, this law calls for everyone to get involved and I believe that we will do it, so anyone who is well-intentioned, who wants to introduce order into the tax system and the total collection of taxes in the Republic of Croatia and for all citizens to be equal, you are welcome and here I invite you to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144587	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144588	I thank the Honorable Chairman. So, just for a little while, why can't we support this law? Of course, with all the good intentions of both yours and ours and which we want to consider, of course, that the law itself has a supply of inadequacy and is unsettled, and I think that the problem is not even a legal solution, the problem is, we had very legal solutions 20 years ago and 10 years ago and 25 years ago, in the time of the biggest privatisation affairs, just.../incomprehensible/... the law was not implemented. And there may be the biggest problem. Here, for example, in Article 1, place property greater than 50,000 when we have at the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest 30,000 movements to be reported, this should be reported. Then by Article 11, you define a fine of 70/60% and then in your score you tell the single rate is that 16.66666% or is that an unambiguous rate? So, I think that especially for the situation when something is determined by gift or inheritance, and this property has acquired legality under this law could not have done anything. So there's a lot more to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144589	Dear Representative Vlaovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144590	Thank you very much. A colleague, the foundation of an orderly society is that we respect our country, and a statement of respect for the state is paid tax and you can't expect someone to be a great patriot, if he doesn't pay his country a tax, and you can't expect some, at least I can't accept that the criticism of the bill is given to me by someone who cheated on voters. This is a kind of corruption that needs to be prevented in the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to amend the law on election of parliamentary deputies, so there will be no fraud of voters and abuse of positions and there will certainly be less corruption in Croatia in total in the system. And I believe that through this law, of course still done, I accept that there are certain shortcomings, we could show the citizens of Croatia, that there are tools and we're going to implement them, that's the key word, we're going to implement those laws equally to everyone, and that's not so far, and it's always someone was politically protected. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144591	A friend of mine, Curaj, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144592	I thank the chairman. 232 is said outside the topic, in 238 other MPs are offended when counterpart Vlaovic said that we deceived voters, nothing less than you. Since we have one thing in common that, at one point in the last three years and one and the other, we have supported the government of Andrej Plenkovic, you at the beginning, we are a little later, not to say another about your and our political history and cooperation, so I think it's absolutely inappropriate to talk about it, so I don't know what the injury is and what it isn't, and that's not the subject of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144593	Okay, come on, let's stop this and you get a warning and please stop this nonsense and each other's bickering, if we want to talk seriously, and it's said that it's a serious law, and there's always talk about how we need to talk seriously, and then we act this way. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144594	The Honorable Chairman didn't realize first who got the warning, and if I did, then it was 236. The violation of the Rules of Procedure by yours that you had to explain to 238. Why someone got a warning, I begged you to respond to a colleague who hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144595	Well, you told your colleagues they cheated on voters, too. Is it? Did you say that? Come on, please, let's be serious. Such things are not necessary in some serious debate, are we, if we claim to be having a serious discussion? My fellow Angel Striker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144596	Thank you. My colleague Vlaović, with the first part of your debate absolutely agree, we are all invited and obliged to work on making it as little corruption and crime as possible, to encourage the work of institutions when we learn about examples or we have some information that some corruption is reporting and I absolutely agree with you and there is nothing to add or take away. However, when you call the government if it could work, rework, upgrade that law of yours would disagree with you because I don't see your president here today. You're saying that one, this proposal, is one of the most important proposals of the HSS Club, and now that we're discussing your proposal, there's no president of yours, and we're talking about morality and honesty. I mean, it's kind of interesting, but by the way, we're calling everyone else around us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144597	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144598	Here's fellow Striker thank you for saying that the law in good faith is written and that it would be a good tool and, of course, I believe that you will make your contribution and make suggestions on how to do it. Of course, we at HSS are allowed to talk and when there is no president, I don't know if you should give the addition and useful amendments to this law, but it's up to you, and our president is also the mayor so he has his obligations in the town of Samobor, and unfortunately because of this today's agenda and the Rules of Procedure our item of the agenda is 4, he should have been somewhere in the afternoon, he would have been there, but unfortunately since there was no debate on the previous 3 points he just didn't arrive now, but that's no reason why you don't support this law because he said you're good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144599	Thank you very much. I will conclude this debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met, and we will continue to work tomorrow, so on Tuesday 18 June at 9:30, the first item will be the Final Proposal of the State Administration System Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 617. Have a good afternoon. Session interrupted at 13.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144600	Now the proposal for a Law on the Study of Origin of Assets and the special taxation of illegally acquired assets has been reported by counterpart Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144601	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, I demand a break within 10 minutes to consult as much as possible. When my colleague Maras was speaking, I would say the sinister laughter of your dear colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ. You're not going to support this law, of course. We knew that. And all those who do not support this law, it is clear to me, too, it is clear to Mr. Maras, it is clear to all of us from the opposition, to all those who will support this law why you do not do so. Because everyone who raises your hand against that law has their fingers in a jam and you have property you can't justify. Not the only Kušević, Kuščević is, not the tip of an ice dream, Kuščević is at this point Pedro is hanging, probably in your internal accounts, but you, the vast majority of you know it very well, you have an property you cannot justify and for which you have not paid taxes to your country, the Republic of Croatia in which you are so many swearings and in which you so much, you present your patriots so much and potential. You're no patriot. You are traitors, all of you who have property and have not paid taxes to Croatia. You traitor. Smile, Djakic. Laugh. When that law comes on the agenda, you'll be the first one to answer where you get everything you've got. Of course, it's clear to me, it's clear to everyone. [[Wait a minute. Wait a minute, please. A fellow white man.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144602	Wait a minute. First, I ask you not to shout out loud but to let your colleague, Beljak, speak, and I ask you to keep an eye out when you accuse that You're accusing, accusing. [[I'm not accusing anyone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144603	I accuse all those who are against this law because they are for personal reasons against this law and it's very clear, which is why someone would be against checking that his property was acquired in a legal way. Whether he paid all the taxes and I really don't understand, which is why someone who loves the state of Croatia would be opposed to examining his assets unless that property was acquired in an illegal manner. So, all of you who will raise your hand against this bill, you are potentially people who have not paid taxes to the Republic of Croatia, and you will be responsible for that after the next parliamentary elections. when the law is first on the agenda and first adopted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144604	Approved, your break is granted. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144605	Thank you very much. It seems that Cresso Beljak has gone where he should have been because if he had no unclean conscience, Cresso, he wouldn't have been such an aggressive answer. I want a break on behalf of the Representatives' Club. [[What do you want?]] SDP... [[Go ahead, say it.]] Thank you very much, but you must understand that when you hear the logical things that Cresso Beljak says and when you hear that HDZ doesn't want people to know what and how their officials have and how they got it, then you come into a paradox. So it's really not clear to you whether it's a genuine patriotism that HDZ people like to worship at all the gatherings, hold their hands on their hearts, while playing anthem, etc., and they don't want people to hear where their property came from, their ministers, and how and how they got it. So this law removes any possibility of anyone getting into the minister's position without being able to explain where he got something and where he got millions and millions of kunas from. So what we have today in Croatia at work, every time the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, when you see that during the intonation of an anthem, colleagues from the HDZ hold their hands on their hearts, since they did not support this law that the HSS proposed, and which we also support, know that this is false patriotism. It's only for television that you see and that you're sneezing patriots because true patriotism would be to sanction those who can't explain where they got the money. And they never did that, they didn't even work during Sanader, they didn't even work during Karamark, and they don't do God to us, now or during Plenkovic. And that's the problem we have to deal with here, and that's why I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144606	Stanka. Your apartment will be approved, thank you very much. Okay, there's a colleague named Misic on behalf of the club as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144607	Thank you, President of the Parliament. On behalf of the Rada Club and solidarity, I'm reporting on this subject that we're talking about the law on the origin of the property. Dear gentlemen, if we want to talk about the origin of the property, here I am the first one to want it done. I'm asking you here now all together in the Parliament and you gentlemen on the left, you've had power for four years, why haven't you done that? This is only demagogy, dispersion of brains and lying to the Croatian people, taking money from the budget, sitting in a bench for how many years, taking money from the budget, what have you done for Croatian citizens for that year? Nothing. Whom you have paid, gentlemen, to whom you have tried to make both order and work in this country of Croatia. No one. You were Minister Maras, what did you do? How many craftsmen have gone and closed turns? Forty grand. You didn't work, I'm sorry, you, you, what are you talking about? ... Why didn't you when you were in power with the SDP? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Comrade Whiteman, just a little.]] Well, this is a populist law. This is a populist law. I want all property to be examined by all Croatian citizens, especially politicians, so what are you talking about? What are you talking about? You had it, you had power, you had it. [[Intruder: colleague Maras and Beljak, please don't yell.]] And then I'll be inside, and you can do whatever you want when you're in charge of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144608	Please don't throw it out of the bench. You're all talking, you're all making very heavy accusations, and don't be sensitive when the other side gives it back to you. What's a colleague of Maras now? What is it? What do you need?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144609	I'd like to invite you to get serious, Mr. President. So, I'm invited to the 238th Art. Infringements of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Misic, who couldn't remember which club he came from as much as he changed them from, and then remembered that he was from Club Milan Bandic, and it was a little confusing to talk about the origin of the property on behalf of Club Milan Bandic, and he got a little confused. In the end, I realized that he would support the law, but that's not why I answered, so I answered because he insulted the MPs by saying that they were taking money from the budget. For the work they do, maybe some take [[Intruder: Your time has run out, colleague Maras.]] who don't show up, but I who's here every day who's in the debates, I'm sure I'm not the one who takes it. [[Intruder: Comrade Maras, your time is up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144610	I'm going to give you a warning now because you're coming out of the time you've been given, and the other thing, there's no harm done to the Rules of Procedure because you've spoken a lot more harshly about other MPs, you've made a lot more of heavy accusations at the expense of others, so you haven't received any warning, so don't be hypocritically asking me to warn anyone now, and I haven't warned you. Here, we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144611	Excuse me. I know which club I'm in. Don't worry. ... We have a legal state to regulate [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And let's remember, let's remember. [[President: Which article is injured?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144612	Wait a minute, why are you looking for, which article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144613	Well, because he's accusing me that I'm not...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144614	What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144615	Let's remember Pava Barisic and your attacks, gentlemen. Did Pavi Barishic apologize when you spat on that same man for seven days that the doctorate was a plagiarism? How can you not be ashamed? How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144616	My fellow Mishic, please, please don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144617	Sit down, Pava Barisic, all of you sitting there, telling him what you were saying and what bazookas you were telling about this man that he was a plagiarist.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144618	Comrade Mišic, please. So please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144619	What are you looking at, I don't know what, what are you talking about, what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144620	Comrade Misic, please sit down, you've been warned. What kind of behavior is that? You're breaking the Rules of Procedure just as much as your colleague Maras did. So please stick to the line at least. We still have a colleague named Curray. Here you go on behalf of the HNS Club. ... Who's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Well, because you don't stick to order, at least elemental procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144621	Thank you, Mr. President. Good thing you warned your fellow Mišić because I would also recommend that you give him this violation of the Rules of Procedure because he does not even know what his rights and obligations are here in the Croatian Parliament and the abuse of his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144622	And now you, too, have now misused the Rules of Procedure because I have given my fellow warners, and I warn you. Now, that's so funny to everyone that it is, I don't have it at all. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144623	Thank you, President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club in order to reconsider the law in question that is here today. In view of what we hear, we were, or in the debates, saying that all existing legislation was allowed to determine the origin of the property and sanction them and that is why I see nothing new here. But if there's one more time, we'll take a look at it. But this way I call upon all those who have a shred of doubt and do not give God the knowledge of any illegal store, acquired property or any other anti-zosal store that they are mandatory, not that they can, but that they are bound to report it. Please don't just throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144624	Comrade Maras, I beg you, so please, just behave yourself, so don't throw it away. And if I prayed five times, so why, why are you like that? Well, that's the basic disrespect of another man. You spoke very, once again harshly to other MPs and you could speak your speech. Now that the others are talking, you're breaking in. I once warned you, twice, so no more,... Tell him later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144625	Thank you, Mr. President. So once again, very clearly, we will once again study this law because in the discussion, we have said that nothing new, revolutionaryly with this law we do not get what is not already arranged, which is not possible. So every application illegally acquired property,... and the obligation of every citizen of us to report it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it can be investigated by existing legal acts. And all media signs, it has bodies, the state's attorney's office first obligation to investigate, but if you have any further information, report it and everything will be determined, illegal acquired property has and tax property, so the law has resolved to what level and rates it will determine. So, once again, we're going to study your proposal and try to find something that would be worth it at least to support it in the first reading that it brings something new even though in the debate we realized there were certain shortcomings that I said in the proposal itself, and I'm afraid that this is more than one thing that can be debated and that it will not bring anything new that we don't already have. But I call upon everyone to report to anyone who has done anything illegal, it is his duty and duty. All the way up to one and everyone's following the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-17-0.u144626	Okay. I beg you, we will continue at 12.05, we have only a few laws left to be exact at 12.05 in your seats. Thank you. It's 11:55 p.m. Please, colleagues and colleagues, take your seats. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.06 HOURS]] Please take our seats so we can vote. So before us is the Proposal for a Law on the Study of Origin of Assets and the Special Taxation of illegally acquired property, first reading, P.Z. Number 424. The proposer is the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on the examination of the origin of assets and the specific taxation of illegally acquired assets is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes 70 for, 5 abstentions and 20 against it have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
