ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126669	My colleagues and colleagues, we're starting work. The first point today is: - Final bill on libraries and library activities, second reading, P.Z. No. 431; the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 85 172 in relation to Art. 190 Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Croatia. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Ivica Poljičak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126670	Dear Vice President, honourable MPs and representatives of HS. In your second reading today, there is a final proposal for the Library and Library Activity Act. In the introduction, I would just like to sum up a few elements that are important for today's debate. Part of it, of course, was expressed during the debate when the first reading here was in front of you in the assembly benches. The Library Act itself and the obligation to pass it and thus improve the normative framework of the library and library activities has also come about in the first order, because the applicable 1997 law that has then passed a number of quality solutions and newspapers in a certain way was in conflict with modern times, whether it is new technologies, whether it is a whole new social context. So, it is fully evident now that in the debate, especially with the library community, the libraries came out of the traditional concept of the library, that the libraries mainly in the local community became a public space and a place of gathering that strengthens social inclusion and the cohesion of the local community, and as we live in the information age, I especially stress the part that relates, where the library plays a very powerful role, but not only in that people's sense, when I say people's libraries, but all libraries, so we have one network that modern technologies as such have made possible and we have a whole virtual reality that became an ingredient, mainly in science, and libraries are very connected, of course, with science, become part of science. In that sense, given that we are living in a knowledge society, given the extent to which lifelong learning has developed as such, given the new forms of literacy that I have just touched a little bit now, and in the final and new forms of books that we are facing, and we need to keep an eye on those who are now sitting in primary and high school benches, they have become one natural environment, so these are new forms of books, so in the context of the development and adaptation of new information and communication technologies, it was really necessary to approach the creation of a new Library Act and library activity. And there was a high consensus, and of course there is still with the library community itself. Secondly, I would like to point out that in 2018, when we discussed the first reading of the Library Law, that we are here, that you have adopted two laws here belonging to the AKM community, archives, libraries and museums, it is the Law on Archive materials and archives and the Law on Museums. These two laws and this third one that is before you today, I will support you, and when it is after today's quality debates, when there is a vote, you will accept it. They are now represented in this and the heritage, but also in this modern sense in which I spoke, they represent one whole. One of the things that are clearly linked to them in this horizontal sense is digitisation, digital society, we see that this first part of the priority that comes from the European Commission to, in particular, when we talk about culture in the broadest sense of the word, in particular, recognizes what concerns digitisation, so e-Citizen, e-Government, so that this is something that we can do, among other things, which I will briefly say about national development plans, which are again, whether it is now an assumption, that for the next financial perspective, the European financial perspective for the 2021-2027 years, we can create all relevant assumptions that in this sense we can further develop the overall activity, archives, museums, which you have already voted on, so I thank you for your support, but here today we are also talking about the libraries themselves. So, these changes that occurred in the atmosphere, which occurred in the normative part when we talk about a European perspective, but also these changes in the overall social and technological context, were very crucial, among other things, influenced, not only to decide on the making of this law, but to shape it in this way. Furthermore, it would no longer speak in this introductory section, indeed, libraries are very respectable in Croatia. I'd like to talk more about the differences between the first and second readings, so you get as much space in today's debate as possible, but I'd like to mention some numbers that aren't so much talked about. Because libraries are kind of in the living room very present. By visiting all of Croatia, I have been able to notice in very many libraries of all layers of society of all age groups, there are many users, but there are not, in this media sense, interesting events, so that there are full portals and full media. We may also be able to say fortunately, but I'm going to present some figures that say what the current situation is with the libraries, I think it's very, very relevant for the prominent today in terms of the debate we're going to have. So, according to the latest official data available, the figure may have changed to several, as several branches, libraries, or new libraries such as the Stubic Spas or Vodnjan or Cavtat opened last year, 1768 libraries acted. This is how 4666 employees, of which 3380 employees and employees are employed, in terms of profession, in professional jobs, as librarians. Of this, 169 libraries are independent, 100 libraries are included in the other 1499 libraries consisting of institutions and businesses. Here are a few more indicators, we all know about the National and University Library, which employs 300 employees. We also have 7 university libraries, 118 high school schools, 2 general sciences, 146 hospital libraries, 277 national, 858 respectively, school schools, 359 high school libraries. I also point out that the library members were one million 309 thousand 484. So these are extremely respectable figures in every respect we've recognized and one bearing element of the law itself was exactly what we insisted on the system of libraries. Now, in this brief, even opening presentation, I would single out these few elements of the difference compared to the first reading, we followed the debate that was here in the Parliament, a lot of parliamentary deputies reported then. Meanwhile, between the two readings, we spoke with representatives of the library community, with the Croatian Librarian Society, but not only with them, with representatives of the school libraries, so we had one lively discussion and I believe that, too, that you listened to it, too, that this information came to you, that we reached a rather high level of agreement on this final bill that is here today in front of you. The more clearly defined and precise performance of the library as a public service, you will remember that at one point, it may have been inappropriate, but it happened, that it was talking about somehow being focused as a possibility the private library came, although... No, it's not real, we've defined the pursuit of library activity as a public service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is performed as a public service, whether the founder is a public or private library. Therefore, all professional standards that now apply to public libraries and to the performance of the library of activities relate to all types of libraries, both in this sense and in private libraries. It is one solution that we have come to in agreement with the library community and it is recognized as one promotion of the text of the law compared to the first reading. Also, we particularly considered it important to further define the digital library, it is one complex, which may be at first glance just by saying, however, when you start doing it in a normative sense, then it is really important to be precise, because in some way, in terms of one lifestyle, technological progress, it is constantly changing and that technology as neutral as it is, it still leads to a variety of improvements that are changes. So, you and these changes somehow have to agree, which we're going to do further at the level of standards in sublegal acts, which includes the library community, but we also had to do it in this normative sense. So here we have 2 segments, we have what was analogous, so now it's being transformed, it's being digitized and it's becoming digital, but we have more and more what, as originally it's being digital, and as such it has its own life in libraries and third, we have more and more situations in former classical special hospitals, let's say, I have experience in a few, now let's say doctors who have always had their libraries, inside hospitals, given the changes that have happened, that part of the classic book fund that it is, it's there, but it's no longer active in terms of the loan, because it's practically everything in the databases. Everything has become digital, everything is practical on the Internet, and in this sense it is a living activity. We also managed to improve with the library community to agree on the first reading, and this was a question defined by the concept of a mandatory specimen, but also the question of the recipient of the mandatory specimen, so we came up with one solution, which we hold acceptable because all previous recipients of the mandatory sample were not equally interested, that all the width of what includes the mandatory specimen was received simultaneously for one objective reason, because they had no spatial possibilities. In this regard, we respected an inherited established practice that also showed its good results, so we included the previous recipients of the mandatory copy in the law as such. In that sense, the National and University Library would receive two copies of publications, all published or produced under the new law. Another library such as NSK which I believe is also extremely valuable to point out is the University Library in Split, the University Library in Split is a modern library, in a technical sense it has all the assumptions and the prerequisites that it can be the recipient in this way of a mandatory specimen and I hold that it takes care of one balanced, even development of cultural infrastructure that is not only in Zagreb and which is outside Zagreb and one instance of the publication would go to university libraries in Osijek, Pula, Rijeka as well as in Mostar and general scientific libraries in Dubrovnik and Zadar, which is practically already a state. But from this previous provision, it is possible for university libraries in Osijek, Pula, Rijeka, as well as in Mostar, as well as the general scientific in Dubrovnik and Zadar to provide a rule on a mandatory specimen that we will work together with the library community to narrow the concept of a mandatory specimen in accordance with the needs of these libraries. All libraries, which are local libraries, are built in the regional sense, and in this sense, all that is printed on a traditional level is also part of a mandatory copy but does not go to these libraries. There's been a lot of debate about who might be the director of the public library. We're here, and it makes me particularly happy that, together with the Librarian Society, we've come to this solution. It is very easy to choose the director of the library in Zagreb, in towns of medium size. But the further you walk away and we know that there are very many municipalities that have libraries, and even towns with fewer inhabitants, you don't have a complete person, you often don't have a complete person. When I say a complete person, I mean in terms of the competences required by law, so he has a professional library exam. And you're coming up with a situation where you have no one to name the principal. Of course, we had no idea that at any point we were breaking the laws, and there was a serious real threat that we had to insist that some of the libraries might eventually, given that you couldn't get the principal to shut down or perhaps have to reach out to some solutions that were unacceptable. So we stayed in the process that when the competition is being opened, we are looking for competencies that are necessary and passed a professional library exam, so that someone has completed a library study. If a repeat competition does not include a person who has these competences, then we have introduced the possibility that a person who, according to the classic one, would have spoken to the VSS at one time so that he has a higher education where we did not particularly insist on one of the areas that he should satisfy, provided that he has to pass a professional library exam within 3 years, then he must undergo adequate education in order to work in libraries. We keep this deadline realistic, keep it sustainable about it enables practically continuous normal work of libraries in the entire Croatian area while at the same time keeping standards alone that no one can work in libraries. I speak at the director's office. Here, perhaps by bringing in a little bit of this part of the debate, I can say that, in particular, further defines what was already in the first reading, which has been accepted, which is greatly welcomed and yet we look at the level of the entire AKM community, that is to say that it determines the status of cultural goods for Croatica, the national collection of library buildings, and the status of cultural goods and books for the rest of the printed works created by 1850, and all the written construction of the public library and library in the legal person system. So here everything that is before it gets the status of cultural goods and thus allows all heritage libraries to be actively involved in not only inventory but also preserving valuable cultural heritage so that they can enter the system at the end of funding, so that they can report on programs that are of paramount importance since Croatia and the Croatian National Corps are far, far older than any library system so that this is particularly important. And here, perhaps, in the very end, I would like to say something about the Croatian library system, its importance and its special role within it, the National and University Library in Zagreb, which performs the library informational activity of the Central Library of the University of Zagreb, as well as the National Library. It remains a key institution. As with the archives, we have the Croatian State Archives, for libraries it is the National and University Library and we are building one such situation and one situation at the museum, we want to build that this status is given to the museum's documentation centre, as we like to call it. Here's the thing, the most concise thing could be said about this. We believe that we have a quality law in front of you, he is in relation to first reading, promoted, he is now with a high degree of consent, conversational, negotiated, communicative with the library community, and in that sense, I am standing here at your disposal for all possible questions, for your comments and I hope your support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126671	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Let's get rid of the replicas, MP Vučetic, came forward with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126672	I'm not going to debate on behalf of the club, just to say that we support the law because there really was a conversation between the Ministry of Culture and the profession, which was confirmed to me. However, there is still some confusion. One of them is the Croatian Library for the Blind, it is not completely clear from Article 38, which speaks of who oversees the professional supervision of the work of the library, because it is listed for all libraries, except for the Croatian Library for the Blind, who conducts the professional supervision. I think it's either an amendment or an explanation. Furthermore, even this problem of mandatory copies is ultimately reduced from 9 to 3 due to spatial or any other conditions that deny the very legality of knowledge itself. Knowledge must not come to space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126673	Thank you for the reply to the replica. Secretary of State Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126674	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Vučetić, as far as supervision is concerned, this should have also been pointed out that one of the dominoes of this law is that we have specifically defined, we have singled out the Croatian Library for the Beautiful, we have this Article 43, which is defined as professional supervision of the work of libraries, to be performed by the parent library. So, in this sense, the National and University Library is performed by the parent library, so the Croatian Library for the Blind is included. And as for the mandatory specimen, I understand your concern that it's reduced by 9, that it's reduced to 3 as you say, I'll say it's not reduced, but that it's binding to a minimum of 3, and so only with the current recipients or recipients of the mandatory copy in direct communication, we've already started.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126675	Thank you. Representative Marko Sladolev, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State, this law, has experienced major changes compared to the first reading, we will point out in our debate, which we still consider controversial. I'd only ask you in art. 12. that standards for hospital libraries, e.g. It is prescribed by the Ministry of Culture, and in my opinion, the current law makes it more logical to divide it into four holders, so that for specialized libraries a competent minister according to the field of activity. So, for example. in this current law, the standard for e.g. Hospitals, libraries, is prescribed by the culture minister, not by the health minister, as you consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126677	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126678	Here is now a fundamental question, how far we can go outside the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science and Education to spread, then by this key, for any form of special that comes out of this box, we should go to the competent ministry, so we went with this key that for the folk, special and digital that the competent minister of culture, and the school, the higher school is the competent Ministry of Science and Education. In this sense, there is indeed a part of overlapping, as some of the specials may be within higher education, etc. But we think this is an appropriate provision, any further expansion, I think it would create additional problems and it would be difficult to interpret, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126679	Representative Sagar has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126680	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, in your opening presentation, you have devoted more time to new technologies and what this law introduces, but as this happens with new technologies, as much as it helps us, it opens up all of your problems. I would say that digitisation in this law is also introduced in binary form, it is good to introduce it into art. 3. is stated, which is a digital library, later in art. 6. The concept of digitization of the library building is also introduced. But from this point of view, I'm more interested in, not this part of the archiving of the digitalisation of content, but rather in me, something that we had here yesterday at a parliamentary debate, which is the accessibility of mobile applications and network pages of people with disabilities. And in that context, Art. 28. which speaks of the Croatian Library for the Blind, is good, however, I do not now see a link between the Central State Office for the digitisation of the society of this law and that law yesterday. Maybe we should do more work on it, so that you can experience this concept of digitization in full form.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126681	Replication response. No, I don't. Representative Dragana Jeckov asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126682	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, do you think that even after the second reading of the amendments you've accepted, that you've really ruled out the possibility of unprofessional ability to take the lead in libraries?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126683	Replication response, Secretary of State Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126684	Dear Representative Jeckov, I hold that we are with such legal solutions, indeed a dam in any work in libraries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126685	Representative Sabina Vosovac has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126686	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I only have one question for you. You have prescribed conditions for selecting the directors of public libraries who say that a person must have adequate higher education, i.e. the level of higher education, have 5 years of work in the library and passed a library exam, these are crucial conditions. However, for the director of the National University Library as far as I can see, it may be wrong to see a person is not actually required to have as a low-level person in a library at least 5 years of working in a library because you said that a person to be elected as NSK director must have a PhD in science or calling a library counselor means no and, at least 5 years of experience in culture, education or science whatever the terms and conditions prescribed by the statute, which we know if it is not prescribed by the law that we will not have this condition. We won't prescribe the statutes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126687	Replication response, Secretary of State Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126688	As I said to the esteemed representatives of Glasovac in the opening presentation, the National University Library has a special status which we legally define through the Croatian library system and the special chapter concerning NSK and we felt that the selection of NSK directors cannot practically have the same elements as the selection of Director of the National Library. Here's why we went after the distincation, and that's why we mentioned both the doctorate of science and the library counselor and so on. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126689	Anka's representative, Mrak-Taritash, answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126690	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable secretary of state, in your opening statement, you mentioned on several occasions the fact, the possibility of opening private libraries, so I wonder if there are any such requirements, whether there are any such interests, how realistic it is, and in fact you said that the conditions that need to be met are conditions like any other library other than that in terms of governance and in terms of funding in a different way and in case such libraries are in terms of supervision and other things that will be a relationship to such activity. We personally hold that it is good that it happens and the last Interliber has shown this great interest that comes back to read, to book, to whisper paper when you read and I think it's extremely good, but I'm interested in this about private libraries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126691	Replication response, Secretary of State Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126692	The esteemed MPs of the Dark-Taritash there should be very much summed up, time does not allow for expansion, yes. So I'm going to tell you, so there's a possibility that there's a library within a private school or in a group, but in terms of the second, we haven't noticed the interest that I've been asking myself in my own words, it's not there right now, so it can only be this, and that's why we wanted to make assumptions about it. We have therefore underlined, and this library must work as a public service in terms of availability, and it is also covered by expert supervision. And here, for example, the library community was satisfied with such a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126693	Thank you. Before we continue our work, I would like to welcome all the students of the Krapina High School, who are with us today at the gallery. If the rapporteur of the board will not take the floor, I will open the debate, the first to report for participation in the debate is the Club of Representatives of the Most, the representative Marko Sladolev will speak on their behalf. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, so we have a second reading of the Library Act that has experienced really great changes that have actually come into line with the profession in the second reading. What we will try to do in this debate is to point out some other provisions that are controversial to us, and that is to say, first of all, Article 10. Therefore, according to Article 10 of the School Institute, higher schools and public scientific institutes are obliged to set up a library in the form of such institutions or a special contract with which another public library, high school and public scientific institute may provide library services necessary to carry out teaching and scientific activities in accordance with the standards set out in Article 12(2) of this Law. The consequences of such a formulated article are higher. The first can be seen is that the law so far, the legal standard of support for education and science, that higher schools, scientific institutes must have a library which is also valued in the procedures of the evaluation of these institutions. It also opens the door and willfully close the library at higher education institutions in the future, as well as any newly established higher school, the school won't even have to think that in the same way as others it meets the same standards of quality of support for education and science and that each other is unfair competition. For us, it is unacceptable and a formulation that the public library, financed by public funds in many cases, should spend these resources in favour of a private enterprise, as we now formulate. In essence, he wants to legalize the current illegal state in which some high schools today do not meet the existing legal obligation. In this article 10, there is no obligation at all to set up a library, even a deadline for, any higher education institution could, on the basis of any service contract with another without restrictions, give up an existing library in its composition or not establish it at all. Not only is it financially appropriate to some educational institutions that do not want a library, but it also promotes inequality and inadequacy in their work. With regard to legal traffic, various legal issues are also raised, e.g. use of databases licensed for and obtained specifically for public institutions. The question of standards is particularly visible, in particular as regards the direct opposite of the purpose of the standards laid down in Article 12. The point is lost in particular if a highly educated scientific institution in the evaluation process will suffer the consequences of any shortcomings in the work of the library, ensuring sufficient amount of construction, space, employees, working time of the library, etc. And any other institution will easily get away with the fact that it has concluded a contract with a public library that is supposed to provide the entire library business according to standard. There are also additional questions about who will provide the necessary resources, but also many practical ones, as already mentioned, will be able to use the databases because the licensed contracts are very strict. Some of the state's foundations exclusively for public funding of the institution, some institutions strictly related to their institution and there is an additional problem if the contract of an educational institution and a public library... in the case of a commercial transaction, the payment of services which are prohibited by the moss by licensing contracts for educational institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The issue of legal personality and powers of legal action shall also be accumulated in particular in the case of institutions on the one hand and libraries on the other hand. In addition to the issues already mentioned in the public library of public funding in favour of a private venture, further problems arise in the case of two educational institutions forming a contract. For example. one school with a library and another school without a library. The question is also which students, citizens and access databases will report to the institution in the evaluation process and in the purchase of the database for license needs. Whether the same space will employees, working conditions and even build and access bases which time will give one library, one institution will only replicate and repeat in the case of another. Such virtual situations will not only have practical consequences in terms of inequality in the evaluation process but also serious legal consequences regarding the legal identity of persons, things, ownership, possibility of conclusion of licence agreements for databases and the like. In addition, the standard for higher education institutions that are not available and yet to be adopted and listed in Article 12, not only would it then apply to that one service provider, but it would be because it does not say which public library this higher education standard could apply to a public library of general character that you do not have to be high schooled at all, which is not possible for one library to operate according to two standards, legally, logically and as well as the purpose of the standard itself. In light of everything said, it is not enough to adapt the current proposal for Article 10, e.g. half of the type solutions that private school institutions and higher universities can only make contracts with other private libraries, not in public but in adapting well enough to not only be legally delirious but to avoid a chaotic situation i.e. not to break but to reach standards at all educational institutions and not to provide the founders of these institutions with public and especially private, it is easy to avoid legal obligations, standards, reduce costs and be unfair competitors to each other and the evaluation process becomes a farce. I repeat, it is unimaginable and impossible that what the proposal would allow the standards for high school libraries to carry out some public folk libraries of general character, not even in general scientific, which is in advance even an immeasurable collapse of higher education and scientific activity. The obligation to set up a library according to all of these must be and remain only possible and can only be established by the deadline for adaptation, especially for existing illegal situations. Therefore, our proposal for a new Article 10(1) states that school institutions, higher schools and public and scientific institutes are obliged to set up a library in the form of these institutions. In institutions which have not fulfilled that obligation until the entry into force of this law, they may, within the time limit necessary, provide for the funds and staff to establish a library for no longer than one year from the adoption of this law or the establishment after the adoption of this law, a temporary special contract with which the other public library provides the libraries of services necessary to carry out the teaching and scientific activities in accordance with the prescribed standards. Secondly, mixing the concepts privately and publicly is a thesis that does not legally stand, that an independent library must have the legal form of its founder or that the Law on Services and European legislation insist that libraries must have all possible legal forms. Such a European regulation does not exist, however, in several European directives, libraries stand out as heritage institutions and the Services Act does not apply to non-economic institutions of general interest, including library activities. The public interest is also shown in Article 1(2) of the Law. The basic library activity is also a loan under the Law on Mandatory Relations, it must be non-competitional. And all previous library activities in the Republic of Croatia are performed as non-commercial activities, so far it has been prescribed by the legal framework of the institution for independent libraries. The most appropriate place in the law on the affirmation of this principle might be Article 3(2) and paragraphs 3. but as this is about the most general definitions of any public or private library and library as they are, this would be a better Article 9 which, according to our proposal, could be read, under 1: a public library as an independent institution can be established by the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government, and a legal person in the majority of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and under two, a private library as an independent institution can be established by another legal person. So, with these, therefore, our observations and observations, here, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126695	The HDZ advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate. On their behalf will be the representative of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126696	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, on 20 December of last year, the government of the Republic of Croatia sent a final proposal to the Library and Library Activities Act in the parliamentary procedure. The final proposal of the Law, as part of the reminder of the State Secretary Poljičak, came to our assembly benches after agreeing with the profession, with the librarians, with the people who are engaged in library activities. I think it was a good way to go since they're in continuity from first reading to second reading, they've talked to people who work directly in these institutions and know how processes are going. Everything that's been said, well, and a colleague before me, I don't think essentially changes what's good in the law, and we need to be aware that globalisation, digital technology, libraries puts new challenges in our multicultural environment. They have been resolved by the final proposal ahead of us and some first-reading misunderstandings, which we discussed on the Committee, and I believe that these misunderstandings are well resolved. There was a lot of controversy or dispute over the definition of carrying out library activities as a public service. This is more clearly defined in this final proposal, given that professional standards for carrying out library activities apply to all types of libraries, so that it is now stated that public and private libraries carry out library activities as a public service. A provision on the public library in the composition was also added. It was about the concept of a digital library, therefore, and this concept is more clearly specified, it is about a library that provides services to users based on systematic digital content management with specific functionality related to this content in accordance with the established rules. The mandatory copy was also discussed between the two readings and the concept is now much more precisely defined, includes publications that publishers in the Republic, and according to this legislative proposal, provide free of charge, the National and University Library in Zagreb and other deposit libraries for storage and protection, and the creation of the National Library Building Collection. The recipients of the mandatory copy, this question has been resolved in a way that the publishers are obliged to provide a mandatory copy free of charge, no later than 30 days after the completion of printing or production, to deliver the NSK in Zagreb, two copies of the publication in the form in which they were published, one copy to the University Library in Split, and one copy of the publications to the University libraries, this has already been said in Osijek, Pula and Rijeka, as well as Mostar, as well as to the General Science Librarys in Dubrovnik and Zadar. Exceptionally, for the University libraries in Osijek, Pula and Rijeka, as well as in Mostar, as well as the General Scientific Library in Dubrovnik and Zadar, the kind of publications from art. In the 37th of this Act, which the publishers are obliged to provide as a mandatory copy, the mandatory copy may be established in a narrowed volume according to the needs of the libraries. The publisher of an extremely valuable and expensive edition, and when we talk about it, it is about graphic maps, bibliographic editions, etc., he is also obliged to deliver a copy of the NSK text section in Zagreb. For the purpose of more effective implementation in practice, given the specificities in the system of higher education libraries, it is possible that the composition of the Governing Council can be arranged differently, by special law, we discussed, there have been questions about the composition of the Governing Council, e.g. a representative of students at the Board of Directors for the University Library. As regards the powers to appoint a director of a public library, here and through replicas, this question has been raised, given the area and activities for which the library can be established, the power to appoint a director of a public library has been amended and it is now specified that the directors of a public library, the founder or co-founder of the Republic of Croatia, appoints and resolves a minister in whose work the library is part, in order to avoid any doubt about the jurisdiction of individual ministries, in view of the particular type of libraries. It is also prescribed that the Director of the Public Library, the founder of which is a legal person owned predominantly by the Republic of Croatia or a local unit or self-government, together with them by another legal and natural person, appoints and resolves a body of management and a legal person prescribed by a special Act and Statute, since there is a lack of regulation of this substance. As regards the appointment of the director of the public library and the conditions after the consultation with the profession have been changed, so that, in addition to other conditions, appropriate education is sought, and a professional library exam has been passed. In the event that the tender has to be repeated, a candidate may be appointed without a professional library examination, subject to its application within 3 years. There was a problem, or a realistic view, of the situation, which is with the smaller environments, which is with smaller libraries, and I think this is how a good solution came out. These provisions are taught to be considered to be subject to a professional library examination by persons who are also subject to the legal provisions of the same Regulation. As far as the bodies that have libraries are concerned, it is better specified in the article. 21, it is about the expert council, so the expert council also has libraries composed of more than 5 employees. For the Head of the Library, the conditions for appointment are laid down, with the possibility that this issue should be regulated differently by a special law. In order to ensure the financing of tasks carried out in the context of the library composition of the Republic of Croatia, there is a new provision that funds to carry out specific tasks as part of the library composition of the Republic of Croatia are provided from the state budget, and this is also the answer to some of the questions that have arisen earlier through the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science and Education. As regards the appointment and resolution of members of the Croatian Library Council, it is specified that, in the event of the resolution of members of the Council before the end of the term of office, the new members will be appointed to their place only for the remainder of the term of office. So here to avoid doubts about the duration of the term of office. As regards the handling of construction, which is owned by the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society, we discussed something yesterday, so this was taught on today's topic and earlier enquiries, so in order to determine how to deal with this structure, a transitional provision has been added that the collection of mandatory copies of official publications is based on art. 39 The Library Act, which is conducted in the Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society, is attached to the collection of the central catalogue of official documents of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of storage and protection of buildings and its permanent availability to users, which is ultimately the most important. The central state office for the development of digital society is thus obliged to digitise the physical part of that building and to hand it over after the digitisation of NSK in Zagreb and, of course, it will require funds, which is clear, it will certainly be provided in an adequate way since it is necessary for materials to be digitised. The most important thing is that library activity is in its basic function, so other than loan, it is the development of literacy, it is the development of culture, education, education and it is the guardian of national, literary, scientific and artistic creation. Once again, I commend and it is good that the law-making process included a waist because the profession is more than a library where books are borrowed. The newer libraries are also faced with new challenges and it is good to combine them, they can be called traditional loan activities, but with a merger and inclusion of new technologies because users themselves require openness to new media and availability of technology. After winning the new Law on Librarys and Library Activity, for the HKD profession, it will certainly be a new challenge, a period of intensive work, to develop new regulations, standards provided for by this law. Of course we expect continued cooperation from the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Science with the profession, and all to improve our libraries and, of course, to enable us to continue to be the guardians of our heritage. The HDZ Club will support the Final Bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126697	Thank you. The SDSS representative club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak MP Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126698	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. So, in our first reading, we highlighted several important elements that we thought would improve this bill, so we talked about how the library activity is non-profit and focused on free and accessible information and cultural and professional scientific content. It is important that after this debate, we have received a proposal for a law that is good, which is enforceable, comprehensive and that enables all types of libraries as well as libraries employed by them to have equal working and development conditions and to provide preconditions for the development of the library system of Croatia. In the debate then, I highlighted the important role of libraries in the democratisation of society, the development of information society as well as the importance of library activities in order to promote and develop literacy, culture, education, knowledge and the preservation of national, literary, artistic and scientific creation. I specifically then referred to the legal framework and the organisation of libraries of national minorities. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has circled the legislation of the Republic of Croatia towards national minorities, ensuring the right to serve in its own language and letter. In this regard, the central libraries of national minorities currently 10 are open and equipped. The role of central libraries is to provide users free access to information in native language through coordinated procurement, centralized processing and distribution. Most of the national minorities' central libraries in the Republic of Croatia were formed in the 1990s and their work became part of the Culture Ministry in 2000. In the fourth century of their existence, the minority library has become important places of promotion, both cultures of national minorities and the meeting place of Croatian culture and cultures of their countries of origin. This model has been in practice for almost 30 years and has not been mentioned in the old law, so we asked whether the status should be foreseen in this new legislative proposal. The central libraries of national minorities contribute to the development of tolerance, respect and understanding in the Republic of Croatia through their multicultural activities. We then proposed that the status be regulated in the new law and we proposed a model as foreseen for the libraries for the blind and the weak. The discussion of the individual proposals that we highlighted in the first reading by the Minister referred to them in particular to the specific subject matter of the national minority libraries, noting the good tradition of the Republic of Croatia as well as the legislation, especially when it comes to financing and obtaining books and the space for that position, thus leaving room for the situation to be further regulated. So we got an explanation that the libraries of national minorities by their definition are not libraries, they are actually collections within the national libraries except for the educational library which is founded or which has a long tradition but is founded by the association. So these collections as explained to us are being edited by sublaws and no details about any of the collections of this bill have therefore been arranged. In our first reading we spoke and certainly welcome these additions and changes that took place in collaboration with the profession, however I would still mention in Article 10(1) that school institutions and higher schools and public, scientific institutes are obliged to set up a library in the form of these institutions with which we agree. So, already in the below sentence, it is said that it is defined that higher schools and public scientific institutes can sign a contract with which other kind of library. However, although it is clear that it has been accepted that schools must establish libraries as far as institutes and higher universities are concerned, the possibility remains that they can sign a contract and do not have to set up their libraries. So I find it insufficient to specify who is bound and who is not. It's clear how compulsory schools are, but for higher education institutions and public schools, scientific institutes still say they're due, but that they can. In a legal sense, then again, there is a door for speculation whether something has to or doesn't have to, or it can be otherwise. I therefore believe that this solution is not good and that it would be better to write in that article school institutions and higher schools and public scientific institutes are obliged to set up a library within these institutions and high schools and public scientific institutes can provide a special contract with which other public library can provide library services. Library services are necessary to carry out teaching and scientific activities in accordance with the standards set out in Article 12(2) of this Act. Furthermore, Article 20 did not stress the importance of the fact that directors must be an information expert. It would therefore be good to add, in paragraph 9, a syntagma in the field of information sciences in front of the words a professional library exam is passed. Clearly, someone who passed a professional library exam probably has some study in the field of information sciences, but there are also those who could have had any college and passed a professional library exam long ago, and so they are librarians now. In this way, direct competition of non-professional staff would be prevented from being educated for many years in higher education institutions in the Republic of Croatia, which are trained by information experts, i.e. library, informationology and so on, which is why I asked you the question you answered me. In addition, if paragraph 9 were to be drawn up in a proposed way, it would allow for the direct representation of expert staff at management positions and in libraries, while at the same time setting out paragraph 10, what if no person who meets this criterion is invited to tender. Now that I've explained, I'm not going to read what it's supposed to look like right now it's already something that there's no room to talk about anymore. It should also be binding on the possible director of the library which has not completed the appropriate study to complete it within a specified time limit, for example. within 3 years, and in that case, paragraph 10 of that Article should read as follows: Exceptionally from paragraph 9 of this Article, if a person who has the prescribed conditions for the Director of the Public Library is not invited to attend the re-competition of a person who has completed a graduate and university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study or a specialist degree professional study or an equal study under the conditions of obtaining an appropriate qualification in the field of information sciences and the laying down of a professional library exam within 3 years of the date of appointment and meeting other conditions prescribed by the Statute. In this way, it would certainly be possible to hire a non-professional person in the event that a professional person does not report to the tender, but at the same time the non-professional person would commit himself to becoming an expert within the prescribed time limit. In this way, we would again avoid the situation if we had an unsupervised frame in our libraries at all times and in our principal positions. I think that would be fair to everyone. I also commend the respected changes that took place between the two readings, and I also commend the excellent practice that has existed so far when it comes to the libraries of national minorities, which have been financed through the Ministry of Culture, and I hope in this sense that such practice will exist in the future. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS will also support the proposal of the Library Act, as indicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126699	Thank you. The SDP representative club also appeared in the debate, representative Sabina Glasovac, will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126700	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, respected ministry representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. It is good that yesterday we had just one law that we discussed in the Croatian Parliament, which has experienced, i.e. several laws in the field of the Ministry of Social Care, which, between the first and second readings, in accordance with the debates and arguments of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament, have experienced quite a change compared to the first reading in the final proposal of this law. And also here, I'm very pleased to see you. This only shows me that these discussions in the Croatian Parliament, and on committees, are not for nothing and that there can still be more important steps, respect for the arguments that are presented in the debate, implementation of them in legal solutions. We know that in the first reading, this law had a little over 3,000 objections received at the consultation with the interested public, we know that unfortunately, when the bill was being drafted at the Croatian Parliament in the first reading, it was not sufficiently consulted with the profession and the debate in the Croatian Parliament was very heated, but it was obviously also instructive, because here, after the debate in the 1st reading, we have a completely different bill where after that it sat down at the table with the representatives of the profession and some things were better regulated. In the interest of social, of course, but also in the interest of, that is, respecting the opinion of those who actually to achieve that social interest carry this whole system on their backs, these are people who are professional in this area, who work in libraries and are professional in this area. What we welcome is that a little clearer, more precise definition of the concept of digital libraries, what we also welcome is the change in the sense that the new legal solution is trying to prevent the abuse of the law in the sense that at the head of the library we have people who are unprofessional, so hopefully I'll just mention that there will be no more going to happen there in some Slunj, for the principal, v.d. Whatever is appointed, a plumber, just because he has the ruling party's card. I sincerely hope that, according to these new criteria, no more can come. In that regard, I'll say a little bit more about the election terms of the principal later. It is also good that between the first and second readings, you have changed, i.e. tried to bring the same professional library standard into line for private and public libraries, but I am sorry that there has been no harmonisation of this standard, and I will say the same thing later on in establishing conditions, for changing the status of these two types of libraries. These are all positive sides of the law, so respecting the profession, respecting the debate in the Croatian Parliament, which often communicate with people who are actively interested in certain legal solutions, which here, in fact, agreeers of their views, is good that certain things have changed. What we believe is that in this law still, in the final proposal, it is not good, is that you have clearly been made very clear by removing library titles from the law. You know why you did this, I'd like to hear here, in your promise, which is why in the current law we had very clearly taxed what these are, which are library titles. Now these definitions, or regulations, will provide something that ensures expertise and standards in the work of the library, regardless of what kind of libraries it was. We'll probably prescribe that with some other standards, through some regulations or sublaws. I think that and the profession, part of the profession agrees with that, that it was the place in the law. Another thing that we think should have been better regulated, i.e. still remains vague in some way through this law, is why you gave up the fact that we still have the division of libraries into independent libraries and libraries in the composition, and then under the division of independent libraries into private and public ones. Now we don't really have anywhere to mention the division of libraries into independent libraries and libraries in the composition, although in the very term, it mentions what libraries are in the composition, but they as this category simply don't exist, and we know that they very much exist in real life as building units of institutions or other legal entities, regardless of this main division of yours into folk school, high school scientific specialities, etc. Secondly, what we believe that we have come to some disbalancing or conflicting situation, is that it is quite clear to us and you, Mr. Secretary of State, in your opening statement, stressed, so libraries have a mission of non-profit institutions, have their activity being public, they have been and could only be registered as public institutions that provide equal and free access and information and recorded knowledge. These were libraries for us, meaning institutions of general interest that provide free and equal access to available information and recorded knowledge. Now. And here is the important non-commercial activity of libraries, but you, in your explanation of the new and first and second reading of the bill, say that this is precisely the fact that so far the library could only be established as an institution, was an obstacle to the establishment of libraries and that it should be possible to carry out libraries and activities without restriction in the light of legal form. Okay. It would mean that from tomorrow, when we adopt this law, libraries can be founded as companies. That's what it says. And like cooperatives. Now, and the definition, the very definition of a company is that it is actually a legal person who independently and permanently carries out economic or any other activity in order to achieve profits, production, traffic of goods or services. I would love to, if you would just explain to me how we will reconcile these two categories, means libraries as non-profit institutions, but also, on the other hand, space for registration, or by establishing them as private institutions, or owned by individual entities that have a business principle, the principle of profit, the principle of trade in services, but for certain material assets or material values. Thirdly, with libraries operating within other institutions, and here we have a lot of libraries operating within the hospital institutions, I think even a legal obligation is prescribed in some other laws, that these health institutions are obliged to register their activities regardless of what their primary activity is, health activities and the provision of health services, are also required to register activities. In fact, it is evident that none of the health institutions, if you want a hospital, and there are more than 20 which are owned by libraries in their system, have registered library activities even though they are required in accordance with some other laws, correct me if I am wrong. Why is that so, and can we, in this law, strictly prescribe a provision that will oblige them to do so and to what? They didn't have a number of times they actually took the hospital library commission to the Ministry of Health and insisted exactly on applying the law in this part. Unfortunately, since 2015, they've been doing it without success. Fourthly, when we talk about the conditions for selecting library directors, it is good that the conditions for selecting directors are adequate level of higher education, passed a professional library exam, which so far has not been the case, a four-year work plan and at least 5 years of experience in library activities, and this applies to most public libraries in the Republic of Croatia. Now, at the national university library, we made a little bit different things. So far it's taken you to have the right level and the kind of education, to have published professional, scientific and other papers, it's taken you to have experience in managing a library institution, it won't be a case from tomorrow. It will only take you to be a doctor of science, regardless of which, traffickers, anyone, so to speak. Or that you're a doctor of science and that you've been a minister in a ministry for over four years, maybe not, and that someone actually declares you, let's say, the Ministry of Education and that someone declares you competent to run a national university library because you say that the first condition is either a doctor of science or a library counselor. But it's not the same, the librarian's advisor to become in his profession in some way the top, the cream de la creme, in his profession, must have certain experience, certain criteria, and the doctor of science, I mean, it's an honor for people who achieve this highest level of education, but whether it means that you are a doctor of science of some non-compared, absolute science or area, whether it means that you will understand and be able to professionally manage such an important roof institution, a library institution in the Republic. So you're not looking for de facto no experience in libraries, in translation. Nothing. Only in the management of some educational or cultural institutions, whatever that means. And finally, we believe that this way that it will be signed by the regulation and guarantee that all university libraries, as was the case so far, have the right, or their students, employees have the right to have available information, published scientific papers, do not necessarily have to guarantee that this same right will be consummated, it would be better if, as before, we had a very clear definition of who has the right and to whom all the mandatory copies of everything that has been produced, everything that has arisen, everything produced in the Republic. And what we think and agree with colleagues who have already pointed out here in previous discussions, we believe that the condition for obtaining the desired status of the school institution, higher schools, public health institutes, the clinical hospital center and clinical hospitals should be the obligation to set up a library as an independent establishment unit in their institutions to avoid this actually being the possibility that they should not have at all within their own structure unit, the library, but that they may conclude a contract with another library that will then provide a service but clearly at what time, under what conditions, it is the space that we are actually mixing pears and apples there and we think that there may be certain abuses and the breach of standards, and that would ultimately be in the name of the SDP Club, although we have made so many small remarks and things that we think might be better regulated by this law, we will keep this relationship to the first and first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126701	Thank you. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club who also reported for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, library is a very old profession if we come from the Alexandria Library, we'll see that in the domain of cultural activities it's probably one of the oldest. However, it is time for modern thinking of this activity in Croatia as well. Although many books foretold a bad future, they foretold that this written medium would disappear, it did not happen, and it is unlikely to happen. A book in writing or printed form not only as a part of heritage but also as part of everyday life, survives, has its inevitable value. Of course, it should not interfere with the mind that the era of digitisation has long gone into the sphere of all written media and so on, but it seems that it has expanded actually the circle of users and in some ways made access to the book easier and the book as a printed medium has not destroyed. This law, which we are now studying and evaluating in the second reading, has definitely made some progress since the first reading, and that is what we will welcome, the GLAS and HSU club accepts this proposal in this sense, but we also want to highlight our commitment as a legislator but also the Government as a promoter to take care of the modernity and future of this activity. On the one hand, we can only agree to the model, the conservative model, the closed model, and that in terms of the profession and in terms of governance can only be librarians but we must be aware that the registration quotas to the studies are appropriate, less and less, that the need for a network of libraries in the Republic of Croatia is much greater and that the modern library, when we already recognize it in private and in the case of the public, should also open its doors to the comparatives, according to historians, according to experts for digital media. It's in our best interest that local libraries survive. It is in our interest for the library to be in every city, in every municipality, and not to narrow down such a space and to virtually close the doors of the future of these libraries because of the formal conditions. Librarys are now much more than a storehouse of printed books, much more than a reading room, they have long been in smaller environments and especially where they are led by people who are proactive and creative, cultural centres in a broader sense. Not only those who deal with the book as such but also culture in a broader sense. In this sense, many libraries act as legal cultural and information centres in their midst by organising stands, presentations, if you want film projections, conversations, not only with writers, but with people from culture in a broader sense. Also the site of the exhibition, these are ways of bringing new generations into the space of libraries, how to get used to them and attract them to the book. They therefore need to open up space for these multimedia functions to perform just as successfully as the function of keeping the printed fund. And as for keeping a printed fundus, no one cares about the fact that a huge amount of books simply collapses. It is a very relevant experience, so if you want to testify to an entire series of antiques in Croatia who testify that they can no longer receive books because they have no place with them and, in fact, from today on out, the offer is supposed to be growing, what is it about? It is that new generations are either due to housing conditions or to other interests inherited by the libraries of their parents or their grandparents, mostly by these libraries. It is sometimes extremely valuable to offer antiques if they cannot receive them, mostly tossing them. Local libraries are not at all interested in this as a rule but should be. Private libraries, the libraries of citizens, have certainly had a larger fund of books on watch for the past 100 years than all public libraries combined. That literary structure usually fails. We'd have to take care of it, it's the same as the archives. Let's say we have a case for my city too. Just a parallel to pull. A man's been recording his city's history for over 50 years, only on black and white, so there's more than 15,000 videos on the negatives. They're in his garage and no one in my town is interested in taking over that building that's a phenomenal witness of time. Today-to-morrow when it's more, the question is whether his heirs are going to appreciate the legacy, save it in some way or end up in the trash. Many similar, written buildings, printed books are located on shelves of apartments that will be emptied, redecorated, sold, and will end up in waste. It would be good to be aware that the founder sometimes does not have enough resources on one side to rebuild and fill the fundus itself because the construction or municipalities that are the founders of the public library are also obliged and in the budgets provide funds not only for its work but also for the restoration and addition of the fund. Those who can afford to do so are greatly helped, so that libraries can mate both new titles and volumes and the needs of a new reader audience or the modern needs of existing readers. Where there's no money, we need to know that local libraries are in big trouble because they don't have the means to get books. The story of a mandatory copy covers only the largest, covers the National University Library, but these mandatory copies do not reach those of others. On the other hand, the purchase quotas for books from the Ministry of Culture are small, which means buying 20 copies of a book? Not much. In an era where publishers are happy if they can publish a book in 200 or 300, full of beards if it is 500 copies, how will we ensure that this book reaches all Croatian libraries? It's hard or not. In any case, it is necessary to relax the working conditions of the libraries, enable them to be as comfortable as possible. On the other hand, open their doors. If you'd like to have a private partnership. Not only in terms of the division of public and private libraries, but also in the possibility of libraries dealing with publishing, the possibility of entering sponsorship relations, that new projects, promotions of print goods of Croatia, be realized through sponsorships of those who value the book and the printed word. It's all part of our overall policy when it comes to bookkeeping, library, written media, and in a narrow sense about the book as such. We're a little aware of the fact that in our heritage when everything is summed up and taken away, we don't care. Or we run very little. On the fingers of one hand you can count the valid exhibitions that Croatia has organised abroad to present its cultural heritage. They're a top photo exhibition because they're easily portable, cheap, and what about the other building that's mobile, what about the heritage in the broader sense, what about our concern in this particular case of literary heritage? How many Croatian authors have we stimulated for translation so far? A little, too little. It wouldn't be bad if we were to revise our overall relationship to our own heritage because nationalist and chauvinist jokes are pure fog sales. If you look a little bit better, there is absolutely no concern behind them for the people, nor for his past, nor for the future. Those who take care of it, they are true patriots, they preserve and allow for the future to become a legacy not only preserved but also a motive and source for new creations. To get back to the basic theme, the GLAS and HSU club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126703	The HSS MPs' club also called for a debate, MP Davor Vlaovic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126704	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary of state with the co-worker. Here's on behalf of the HSS Club a few words about the final proposal on libraries and library activities. We all agree that this is an important law that promotes the development of library activities in order to promote and develop literacy, culture, education, science, excellence and preserve national and scientific creation, and what is important, ensures the availability of library information building for people. It is not worse to repeat that we in Croatia have over 1600 libraries and about a million and 300 thousand registered members of these libraries. And that our desire to pass this law is clearer to define this activity, but to make a more accessible book for each of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia with a desire to make them happen and more enrolled in these libraries and that we have more libraries throughout the Republic of Croatia, especially in rural areas. There have been more objections here, so here we are from the HSS Club joining in thinking that higher education institutions that don't have the basics of their own library should have it. First because of students who need to have access to their scientific training and professional advancement, but on the other hand, because of the equality of performance on the market of these institutions, and so that there is no possibility for abuses, so that, our proposal from the HSS, that, okay, now they don't have their own libraries, they can sign it by contract with other higher education institutions, but to set a deadline, here we have a deadline of 5 years to set up their own libraries in their higher education institutions because of equality and equal market position, and I think that would be a good proposal. That's a good suggestion. Also when it comes to the possibility of establishing private libraries, of course we of HSS advocate freedom and the market and everyone based on business, and that is the constitutional right for everyone to have the right to work, and then to set up their own activities. However, what we do not want to happen, which is not good, and leaves this law to be able to finance public money and private libraries, and that should be more precise, it is only stated here that they can be founded, but it is not stated that public taxpayers' money must not be financed by private libraries, so I would ask that explanation and if it will go after this some sublegal act where it will be defined that public taxpayers' money cannot be financed by private libraries. Of course, libraries are important in further describing the population in the Republic of Croatia, we have a satisfactory rate that 97% of the population of the Republic of Croatia is written, but we still need to work on informational descriptiveness, digital, financial, and also the expansion of democratic culture and dialogue in equal opportunity for everyone and each to give space to protect their own and national and their integrity of their minority and it is good to define this by this law. We're early in the 20th century. The HSS, or Radic, saw the importance of descripting, then most of the population in Croatia was illiterate and the establishment of exactly national libraries, or reading rooms all over the villages, spreading literacy because only the written people can adopt new knowledge and skills and can spread and develop a democratic society and economy. And therefore, here, we advocate to be in art. 10 specifies how libraries would be established in municipalities and cities that have less than 3000 inhabitants because we are not satisfied that they do not have to set up a public library, a national library, but that they can make contracts with the neighbouring municipalities they have, it is not good and should be legally determined to establish libraries and in those municipalities that are less than 3000 inhabitants and to help them financially in that part because if you do not have a library in one municipality, you have no mail, you have no trade, so how do we stop the eviction from Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, Like and other undeveloped areas. One of the prerequisites for staying in those areas is that they have an available book, that they have a library on their own ground, if Radic advocated it in the early 20th century. I think that today we should say that, too, a library in every municipality and city, as long as we have not decided to abolish or connect them with other and neighbouring municipalities, then we should also have a library in our village, that is, in our municipality. Also in Art. The 10th century 4 says that in those areas where there is no library, it is not defined whether it is once a week, once a month, once a year, so it is my question whether it will be defined by some sublegal act and if it will, that here the public knows what the scope, which is the extent and how much would then be the availability of these mobile libraries in those areas. Also, when it comes to the employment of directors and professional abilities that this person must have for the director of the library, there have been a lot of objections, they are both respected and repaired, but here is another one by HSS that in the case of a professional library exam, it is stated that, if it is not there, the person appointed as director is to be placed within 3 years. We think it's too long a deadline, that in most other and similar competitions, it has to be passed within a year or a half and that that deadline should be shortened because if you appoint a director for 4 years, and he only has to pass a professional library exam in 3 years, then it's too long and I think it's more appropriate than one year. And here, I would like to praise and ask, is it exactly how it was announced that it would be going to rebuild and build a library in Vinkovci, so I would like to hear in the final word what stage it is, whether the restoration of the library in Požega was completed, but of course, here is the competent ministry to help in the work and libraries both in Novi Gradiška and in Slavonski Brod and in Županja, Ilok, Lipik and Pakrac because there is a lot of construction there during the Homeland War missing and destroyed. He would remind us that there is not only the provision of services to our readers through the book, but also a number of other cultural contents in these libraries and that there is a need to commend these administrations and local self-government that gives this effort and that it certainly needs to be helped in the environments, and of course it is related to the budget again. I think we must finally allocate more funds to the Ministry of Culture and Culture in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126705	Representative Goran Aleksic reported on the individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126706	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry, the book is something special. When I walk into the library, I feel like I've entered a special place and I feel different. Since I was little, I've loved reading, unfortunately for the last two years I've read very little because I'm committed to some other things, but I have to say that this law that needs to be passed I will personally support it. I'll support him for that because in contact with the librarians I've concluded that they're satisfied with that law now, they may not be completely, but the compromise is now fine, and that's why I'm going to support that law. Libraries are not only a place where books are borrowed, libraries are also places where we rise culturally, but we really rise culturally, because there are also art exhibitions, there are recitals, there are music events, libraries are really special places where we can't forget and who have to stay on one pedestal in the Republic. Here I would no longer spread too much without entering any pathetics, but I would especially welcome some of my dear librarians here, I will take the opportunity to publicly welcome for me the best librarian in the Republic of Croatia, the director of the Library of Bogdan Ogrizović, Jasna Kovacevic from Zagreb and my dear librarian from Kutina Jadranka Delponta, with whom I also spent very pleasant moments in cultural societies. I'll uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126707	A representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash reported for individual participation in the debate, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126708	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues are here in front of us in the second reading of the Law on Librarys and Library Activities, as counterpart Beus Richembergh said on behalf of Club GLAS and HSU we will support this law, but somehow the law needs to think about any few directions. One of the things that should be commended is this conversation and the effort that the ministry made between the first and second readings to improve. Yes, not only did what the MPs in the first reading emphasize what we were discussing in committees and plenary sessions, but as the secretary of state said was talking to the profession and the main dispute that you were trying to solve were obviously some other things that were not, but it was actually the meaning of two law readings. It's not the point of two law readings to say here's the law we're making in two readings, but what first reading shows as a challenge to try and get rid of and there's no magic wand. And none of us can solve everything, but if you get some kind of signal from the field that you have a law that basically satisfies all of them more or less, then it's an indicator, it's a good job, we're going to get a good decent law and then we come to the realization and we come to reality. You know, you can have a good, quality law but then in realisation you see that there are a number of problems. And there's the skill of every ministry to recognize these problems in time and try to remove them. Of course, when we talk about libraries and library activities, each of us will return to some kind of personal experience. What joy, joy when at the last Interliber which was if you wanted to come to Interliber at all any hope that you were going to your car you should have left because there was no place to park cars, and then it turned out to be on Interliber, the publishers themselves said that it was a success, that the books were being bought. So there's a way, so there's a possibility that you can actually download through all possible portals to read, but it's a thing to read. What the younger generations have forgotten, and it is our fault that we are raising them, has forgotten to read, has been forgotten to write from that reading. Look at the look of those messages, I must admit, I had some luck that my kids were reading and my kid was always looking for Easter, Christmas when he got me some money to buy a book. So even the idea of buying a book and reading is something that is extremely important and important for a country. Among other indicators of a country should be indicators of how much is read in that country, because you, there is no book that you will not get from it, or it will enlarge you, or you will feel better, or you will get some information. If I've written it correctly, I think I did, the secretary of state said that we have 1,300,000 members of the library, they have members who are the library because they have to, so the children who go to primary school, so the high school are going to join the university because they have to because they have some things, and there are those who have it traditionally, and I've just tried to remember when I first joined the library, and I don't remember, I feel like I've always been a member of the library that was across the street, later and everything else, but it's important to read this contact with, it's really important that it's really important that you get the information that you're educated, that you're making progressing, extremely important. Likewise, I always think about pictures and try to convert these images, and when I talk about one country, about what the country is, among other things, its National and University Library. For me, the National and University Library is one of the most beautiful secession buildings, and I speak to the old National and University, which is one of the most beautiful secession buildings that is, not only made in Zagreb, but also in the Austro-Hungarian area where the secession has had its greatest success, in a beautiful place where it turns around and dominates itself outside, but when you go inside, you have actually one great fear and it is good to have awe for that building. Therefore, what experience in that building you can gain from the whole story. I also have to say that our new, therefore, that National University Library that we are looking at today in terms of architecture is really very important, very valuable. I'm sorry that the aula is no longer used, and I have to admit that I was personally wrong when part of it was used for Gruntovnica, because I think it's the value of that library and it's made for some other things. And through such a relationship, one country says what kind of relationship it has to its tradition, according to its past, according to its written word that remains there, but what kind of relationship it has to the future. Libraries are places to come, not because you have to, at some point when you're educated, you have to, but also places to enjoy. I think I'm in a replica when I tell the secretary of state, I love the smell of paper and I love it when I read, so I use all of these, as I use it in all possibilities, because it's simpler, but that smell of paper you're listing, that rustling is something special, and so on, what's our job, is to teach children from little legs to read, that libraries are the comforts in which, and that's what traditional libraries did, especially for kindergarten groups, for children in elementary schools, to come, to play, to play games, they have to adapt to some new conditions, but it's important to read because those who read will speak well, they'll talk better, and they'll write better. Just look at the messages that young generations write, not only are they shortened, about how the big letter and the little letter no one knows anymore, but they don't know, they don't, they don't, they're going to be in between. You from reading, out of contact with it all are educated in a way that one day you really have your word, that language you appreciate and that you appreciate that your past, culture and there is the importance of all of this together and that I must admit that one day I am personally glad, we, there is no law that you cannot object to, there is no law that can't be better, but as you have initially said, you have made an effort to talk, to offer the best possible solution, and you can see that in this Assembly you are actually getting some kind of affirmative attitude and we all support that it is good that, well that the efforts, I must admit that I understand you and that I am also on the Committee on Law, when you said that in the second round you will raise all other professions, let's really think about what we have in the Republic. I think it's much more important that we have a library where people will come in, and that the director doesn't have to be very simple about why they won't be, which they won't have, so let's face reality and offer provisions in the law that are real and that are real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126709	Before we continue with the replicas, we would like to welcome the students of the Krapina High School together... Representative Marija Alfirev reported on the replica. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126710	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Mrak Taritash, you have said and explained and explained your vision, therefore, of the man in the Republic of Croatia how he should look at books, instead of reading and absolutely agree with that. But unlike you, I would still point out the role of professional people, directors, especially in smaller places. Especially in smaller places because these very professional people, if they are doing their job, and they have been educated, in this sense, very much contribute to this very culture of reading, not just taking, so, just borrowing a book, just one, ensuring the work of that library, but really promoting all the activities that will contribute to what you were talking about. So I'm glad they changed [[Intruder: Thank you]] in this reading [[Intruder: Thank you]] The terms of the principal, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Time's up]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126711	Replication response, agent Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126712	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague Alfirev, but the man is extremely important, so take it from you, when you come to a library and if there's someone sitting behind the counter you can ask, who gives you the answer you're asking, now you hear me something, what you think would be good, you feel better. But what has been the role of libraries forever and we must not forget, their role in education of children, so education of children is extremely important, so whether we invest in ourselves or not now, it depends on each one of us, but the general feeling of children to be read. So, always, be careful, you now, the bookie has always been a pressure on everyone, you now have all the bookies, you open up on the website, it's just a question of how you're going to rewrite it. So, writing a bookie doesn't make sense anymore, but it makes sense to talk about what you read.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126713	Representative Tomislav Sokol reporting for replica
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Mr. Taritash, for mentioning the question of education, and I agree, we have a situation as far as I feel, because I come from that system myself, that the habit of learning, of entering into depth and so on, is much less pronounced than before, things are much more superficial, these knowledge may be wider, there's a lot of information available, but unfortunately it's not systematic and it's not deep. And you can really tell from those examples of illiteracy, unfortunately, that you mentioned. However, it is also a fact that in the public very often a single atmosphere is created, that some systematic, deep knowledge is not necessary, we do not need facts, we do not need a drum, etc. etc. I don't think we need a drum and unnecessary facts, but some things and some facts have to be known, so I'm not glad to create one public atmosphere, that's enough just to play at school and that's enough. I think some basic facts, to do any job seriously, are ultimately necessary to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126715	Replication response, agent Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126716	Thank you very much. Comrade Falcon, that's right, so all these devices that we have are actually on the one hand really, in real time, you get real information, but on the other hand they're a danger. So the danger is because you take facts that you get on Wikipedia as true, which is absolutely wrong. What's important, it's important that you really, you have to get into some things, essentially, deep things. You must leave if you want your knowledge to deepen. You have to go to one library, you have to consult all the information that doesn't go differently. So I'm sure that at one point, when they burn and get on their fingers because they used half the information will come to that and that's why this one law is, therefore, the law is the opportunity to talk about it and point to it. We see for ourselves, and through the debate, we have made less reference to what we have in the law concluded is good, but we have referred to all other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126717	Thank you. Representative Davor Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126718	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Anka Mrak Taritaš, you have made a fine point of mentioning the need to read from small legs and the spread of that reading culture, but it certainly also needs to be made available to those residents, especially in rural areas, and I want to repeat that in municipalities below 3000 inhabitants, which do not have the obligation of public library, it is often not available to our fellow citizens and on this field there are enthusiasts, who write poetry books, which are organised in the association, so here, for example, a bookable, art society to solve for years, organizes meetings of poets from around the world, who keep Croatian language and culture, and unfortunately have no place to deposit their own builds, their books, and spread that culture of reading and writing, and I think that for such literary art associations, they should be allocated more resources from the Ministry of Culture and other sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126719	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126720	Thank you very much, dear fellow, without such enthusiasts, there wouldn't be a lot of things. And we often wonder when we come and when we see what conditions they work with and what means they work with, and they really need to be congratulated and give them a hand and say you're doing a good job. Behind a small environment, there's one option, it's those Bible buses, that go, but that's not the end of the line. There is always a need to see, which are solutions, but what I've been stressing all along, children should be raised from the smallest legs, that the book is a friend, of the picture books that are, and so on. Today you have really hot and educational pictures, but it's important to respect the book, respect what it is, because that's the only way you can have a generation, that will respect your roots and respect your own history at all, that I don't paraphrasise something else here and that's why, and that's why you really need to stress that importance of the book and the importance of reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126721	Representative Marko Vesligaj, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126722	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, colleague Mrak Taritash, I will repeat once again what many have said in the debate and in the replicas, that indeed, libraries in smaller places are one oasis of cultural life. And I can say that I may not have been so aware of that, before I became mayor of the Prescrib, of the importance of a library for one life in a small environment, but even more important of a person, person or, the principal who runs that library, who I will say has never lost her enthusiasm, has never lost any sense of innovation, and I am interpreting it by the obvious that the whole life is surrounded by books, which is surrounded by people and then there is one love passed on to other people, creating together with the city, one cultural life, is really proud. I believe that such people, many more in Croatia, and here, I am glad that we have given this law one meaning, to put it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126723	Replication response, agent Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vesligaj, but I think in life, one of the scariest things that can happen to you is to finish high school and college and do a job that you don't like. It's something that can happen to you the most terrible thing, for the simple reason, which then you see it, then you see it with body language and everything else. And you through all these discussions, actually, we who have a little over the years remember our going to the library, we remember the people who were there, the library might be a little better or a little bit less equipped, but people are extremely important, it's the decency of these people, it's the will, it's important to do something, it's then, when you have that idea, to do something, then it's really libraries, there's a place to gather. Not because someone goes there because they have to and they have to write a booklet and they have to do something, but because they want to and they feel it in small places. I grew up in Bjelovar. My library was a neighborhood. It was a normal thing to me to go to a neighbor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126725	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126726	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Secretary of State. It is nice to hear this one debate supported by more or less all parliamentary representatives, i.e. all the parliamentary representatives we have heard, perhaps this is the way we should work in the future. So when, after the first reading, certain remarks are made, when the waist also says certain suggestions that the law is being done so much that both the profession and the representatives and all of us here who are discussing, we have nothing but to support the law and that is something that should not only be practiced in this area but also in many other areas that unfortunately are not done, but we have discussions where the profession is not respected. So I, like everyone else, am satisfied with the changes compared to the first reading, and I am satisfied that this will ensure the further development of the library activity, and I am pleased that these 4066 employees in this profession will have a better legal framework for their work, but I am most pleased with our citizens, because of those who use this service, I agree as well as other MPs that we should promote and make the reading of the book more accessible, and in this way maybe even spread the network, and I am sure that this law will enable it. Of course, we now have the opportunity and technological to make available reading books in a way that is more and more widespread, but what I think is, I am one of those who is not opposed to technological progress, but quite often I think that the book and in the form it has been so far, not virtually, or read with auxiliary tablets or other devices, so it also has some value, and I'm glad, when I see people leaving, they borrow books, etc. On the other hand, libraries, as we can see from these data are the place, that's what many colleagues said, where people hang out, there are certain promotions, here I can say that in the library where my children, where they go there was an Internet workshop, robotics were held there, so that's, that's where they should be promoted in such a way as to exchange, not just some knowledge, but where to do certain socialization and to adopt some new skills. So I want to highlight a very interesting piece of information here, which no one has mentioned yet, which is that in libraries, daily presses, or newspapers, are widely read, which gives meaning to libraries as a place of informing our fellow citizens about everyday things, not just about history, about science, about some literary works, but about what is happening in our country, in the world, on a daily basis. It also speaks about the structure of those who use library services, it also speaks about social status, probably most of which is about pensioners who are hard to set aside 10 daily for newspapers, so people there come to join, read newspapers, talk to each other, and that is something that also gives great value to this activity and great value to those places where it happens. I would like to note that, for example, libraries are a place not only where you can use certain services and internet in a way that, as in the city of Zagreb, is allowed free within half an hour. Here, my idea, my wish is that libraries become Wi-Fi free zones for all those, I apologize to my colleague, just a little bit. I know otherwise, the situation is different, I'm loud, but this time I'm you. So we changed our roles a little bit. So I'm pushing for the Internet to be available in all libraries in the Republic of Croatia in a way that people can come and use there and not charge it, so that we also help citizens with the availability of information and the possibility of further informing about certain things. In the city of Zagreb, the city library, meaning, which I think is particularly important, they need to invest more and they are 43 they seem to me, present and yet, I would say should invest in Bibles, we have several buses or Bibles that go around with books, but thus make it accessible to citizens in their neighborhoods near their homes might not be bad and should be safely invested in it. It is also shown that when we talk about fairs in the city of Zagreb, Interliber is one of the most successful fairs and nearly hundreds of thousands of our citizens come to visit Interliber, there is information, it uses certain opportunities to buy books, so there is one tradition that people support, and it is a shame not to make it possible by legal solution, but also by supporting the local community even more, in order for this culture to be further strengthened, i.e. to keep it in the future. I also think that it would be a quality proposal, I say from a local perspective, in Zagreb by 15 years is a free membership in the library of the city of Zagreb, I think it would be a good idea to do so by 18 years, means to include secondary education, and maybe even for students at the Zagreb university to enable in that part of education, that people have more literature available, that the costs that may not look this much when you look at the year level, but since it may not pay much, but it is not much when it comes, so the city could provide such free membership fees for students, i.e. for students who are in high school education I say now it is limited to those who are in primary schools. So, put all this together into one whole, promote what my colleagues used to say, and that's a culture of reading, a culture of gathering information, socializing, promotion, knowledge and everything that goes along with it, and I think once again in the end, we're going to have an even better system, and I'm sure that's exactly what this law is going to make it possible. Here again, say hello to the minister and she was at the first reading, as I would say, there was a lot of criticism, too bad she didn't come to hear that the opposition's representatives could praise her, right? So on that side, here, as far as this law is concerned, I am among those who will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126727	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Can we keep it down a bit, please? First of all, she's a respected representative of Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126728	Thank you very much. Dear Maras, exactly today and yesterday here we are witnessing good examples of ministries and promoters where, between the first and second readings, they respect constructive proposals of MPs, integrate them into the very texts, and I'm afraid that we will only experience it from the Ministry of Education because they show here again that they are always self-loving enough. And secondly, when you talk about the importance of reading, yes, here is today the World Loud Reading Day that shows and points out how important it is for children to actually read aloud from birth itself that in this way not only develops a feeling of closeness between parents and children, but also develops these reading skills, it shows that later they are much more skillful in communication, more success in school and in life have, so here we are at this time also in HS that It is good to hear that we encourage, understand the importance of reading and encourage reading from, I say, parents, children already since their birth. [[Intruder: Fellow Lenart, Shuker, please...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126729	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126730	Thank you very much. I can see that you're not experienced by your colleague Shucker, so give him a little warning. Yes, now he's calmed down, you're in the right place, fellow Glasovac, what I don't think in the Ministry of Education doesn't realize is that under the parliaments that the minister speaks, which is very little, which is, we're going to have easier bags, we're going to have everything with pills, etc., they're going to ignore that I would say the approach in which we talked to many in schools that, let's say, it's very difficult to replace where a child has to write a task from the beginning to the end. [[But he's not a colleague of Lenart's. /]] So here, I think there's a lot of easy access to the minister, I'm afraid even under pressure from certain technology companies to promote something that might not ultimately be the most effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126731	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126732	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I agree with you that we should create or maintain the habit of going to libraries. If we won't do it from the smallest legs, so that children don't have the habit of taking the book in hand, being in direct contact with it, then unfortunately they'll be left to the virtual world, which I agree with you is not good. On the one hand, the challenges of new technologies are logical, but on the other hand, the processes of acquiring lasting knowledge, what remains in us, I think is the direct contact. In libraries, we also have to make a balance, between traditions, it's a traditional loan, reading, some established habits, and between what users are looking for, which is connecting with new technologies, so we have to be careful there and we have to make a good scale between old and new and then get the best out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126733	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126734	Thank you very much. What I wanted to say about this, that very soon we will probably also be with new networks about technology covered, it will have some value for both the economy and education absolutely in the future. At this point, there are still many environments, I'm not just talking about Zagreb right now, it's probably an even bigger problem in some smaller places, where people don't have the possibility of optics, etc., maybe libraries can provide a slightly better connection than they have at home or maybe some of them don't even have a good signal at home, so on the other hand, libraries should be a place in small communities, especially those kinds of technological ones, I'd say training citizens to get more simple, maybe even free online and thus communicate. This is now being charged and I don't think it's too much income and it might be subsidized in the future. from the level of cities, let's say in the city of Zagreb it should be free of charge. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126735	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club, something will say to the esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126736	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that today is the vast majority of online knowledge and is generally used by the Internet as a source of information. I'll just give you one detail, if you ever move, you'll see how many books you have, and once you read the book, you won't actually need that book anymore, and if you... Now Mrs. Pusic is as confused as she's going to need it. You're looking, maybe you will, but if all the books you've ever read, if you're going to read them twice, a very big question with a big questionnaire. It's just that today the whole world is heading towards digitization. After all, we in the House have now come to the fact that the bill's proposals are being sent digitally to us that they're available on the line, before we were all buried in paper, and you're all aware of that we had desks full of paper. There in the boxes is a nonstop old paper baco and what is actually the saddest majority of these papers have never been read. But I'm not saying that because I'm calling someone, I'm telling you this because I'm pointing to a trend and for whatever reason I think that all libraries should have, you should have wifi means an open network, that anyone who comes to the libraries has access to the Internet as a network of all networks where de facto all information is available. If libraries do not have an open Internet connection, then a person is limited to the content that exists in the library if he is available at that time, and if it is not available in a picturesque way, it is said “eat the wolf donkeys” cannot easily get to him. That's one thing to do. The other thing is that students and students of primary and secondary schools, means regular students and pupils of primary and secondary schools should be allowed to go to the library for free. Why? Because it would encourage them to go to libraries, to look at libraries like, not as some place where they have to pay something, and then some age, but a place where they can actually get free of charge, where everything is available to them, and where, because you look at the greatest enemy to darkness is light, the greatest enemy to ignorance is knowledge. If we want people to turn to knowledge, we have to make it easier for them to access it. It's our appeal, it's our call, and for this reason I think it should, these changes to the law in libraries don't solve these issues, so they don't give high school students and regular students free access to libraries, they don't allow open Internet for everyone, and the Internet is in Finland human law, and in our libraries there's no de facto. So ask yourself if maybe this government, maybe this system for political reasons, doesn't want people to have access to the Internet, because you all know that big media is largely controlled by their advertisers. If we have a people or a society that is informed by television, by radio, by newspapers, and not by new media means via the Internet, we will still have a situation for half the voters to vote for HDZ for over 70 years. Why? Well, because they're given the information they're getting through the so-called. The mainstream media, that's one of the reasons for me being the key. That these old people have access to the Internet, that they read all the information and not just those that are determined by television, radio and newspapers, the question is whether HDZ would have half the support of those older voters. And that's more or less it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126737	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State, Ivica Poljičak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126738	Mr Vice-President, I would like to thank you in the first place for today's debate and for the support that has been given under the law that lies before you today, the text from the second reading. I believe it was really a constructive debate, I followed closely, and here in the final word there will be no need for all of these 30 minutes on my part, I think it will take much, much less time. Who once loves a book loves it his whole life. It's my experience, I can see that there are experiences like this here in the assembly, and then it marks you for life. It's not something that's planned as purpose, but simply in time you realize that it's a component of life, like oxygen, that's necessary for biological survival, so are our books in our lives. And the libraries are this place without which we can't, but we still want to encourage it, develop it, and this is certainly a legal solution as well. Before I give maybe a few more explanations, I want to say one part that may have remained for a reasonable reason on another plan, which is that the law gives us one normative framework. So, the set of rules within which the activity is taking place, but what I hold is also particularly important, is that the key objectives that are important for further development of activities for the development of libraries, will be determined by drawing up national plans, making up a modern methodology, and thus allowing further expertise for the library community and users to reach it through a national development plan that will result in the creation of an action plan with expensive measures, clear indicators that we will have further quality development and key objectives that the library profession, the library community will reach it and, in that sense, the law has created all assumptions. Regarding the issue of national libraries of national minorities, it is true that they are now operating at the level of library collections in the home libraries, central libraries for national minorities. So we have in Beli Manastir for Hungarians, Pučka library and Daruvar reading room for the Czech minority, Croatian National Library and Reading Room Nasice for Slovaks, City University Library Osijek has an Austrian reading room for Austrians, it is the central library of Austrians, the City Library and the booklet Pula is the central library of the Italians in the Republic of Zagreb, the library of Bogdana Ogrizović is the central library of Albanians in the Republic. They are also libraries of the City of Zagreb for Russia and Ukraine and the Serbian Cultural Society Education is the central library of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. Let us add to the very end that we have complete information until the end that City Library Ivan Goran Kovačić is the central library of Slovenes and the National Library and Reading Room Vlado Gotovina in Sisak that the central library for Bosniaks is in the Republic of Croatia. So on behalf of the Ministry of Culture through the central libraries which I have now cited very much care for library collections for representatives of national minorities, continuously and it is pointed out here that this is a good tradition, it will continue. And in that sense, we further modernised one model of funding that will be in 2019, all libraries responded yes to the letter we sent them at the end of 2018, so this is unquestionable. But what I keep equally important is that under this law every national minority can form either as an independent or as a library in the system can form a library. So there are conjectures and I believe that it's well and well solved. About the library titles why they're not in the law itself, that's the thing we've discussed further with the library community. In the end, we have defined to the end what is within the entire AKM community that this will be resolved through the rules. The existing library titles that are in that sense will be in the rulebook. So in this sense, there are additional guarantees that mean and strengthen the expertise that is in libraries. And with regard to private libraries, it may be worth noting again what I said in the introduction that standards of potentially those that can be established as a company also have to be performed as a public service. But here, in order not to somehow remain on the side, I am particularly important to point out, that is, in Article 29 where it is defined, the chapter and the resources for the work of libraries and the sayings of paragraph 1 are provided by the founder and the means for the work of libraries, including the means of pay, the means for the purchase of buildings, the means for the programme, etc., that I do not list everything, and of course to perfect the library staff, it is the obligation of the founder. So it's to be visible and clear to all of us. And with regard to the selection of the principal director of the National and University Library, it is true that there is no predetermined, so there is one width, but I would like to point out that I would not, I would stress the importance of a librarian's advisor, which means that someone in the library's calling is already 10 years old but there may also be a situation that Dr. Science who has not worked previously in the library. However, it is pointed out here and at least 5 years of experience in governance in the culture of education or science. It's still one narrowing, not just any Dr. Science. So if someone who hasn't worked in culture, education or science he can't access. We were always here somehow when we talked to people in the first row from the National and University Library, we had an example of the former culture minister, the esteemed science Mr. Antun Vujic, a prominent philosopher who had been within the academic community for years and now he is at the head of the Lexicographic Institute of Miroslav Krlež, he, by what was in force in terms of the current law, could not be appointed director, or one of the university professors now who are working on the Library Department would not be the same under the current law. However, this is also to have a whole here to say, anyone with a doctorate and not in the library community if he is employed as chief director he has one small small obligation that he has to pass a library exam within 3 years. And now let's expand and clarify why these three years are. Because you have to be able to access the library exam, you have to finish your studies. To finish your studies, you need some time. So we can't do that because we couldn't sum it up for a year. With regard to the purchase of a library building, there is already a long-standing, highly quality practice at the Ministry of Culture that continues. I'll just say that for 2019 there is an estimated amount of almost 16 million kuna. It is a significant money and it is money intended for all libraries in the Republic of Croatia. The question of why, we no longer legally insisted that each municipality could establish a national library. It was at one point I dare say it was almost a reform procedure, it was the decision of the then-Court of Culture, which was incorporated into the Parliament and the Parliament accepted it. What did we have for the score? Part of the municipality was able to establish a national library. It's commendable that all cities have, so we don't have any cities that don't. However, out of 429 municipalities, only 85 municipalities have a national library. That's 19.8% of the total number of municipalities. We could still think about leaving a provision that is, but whether it will give the result as such. So we resorted to a few things we hold to give results. First, we got involved through the Law and County, which were so far not, with one goal, that every village needs books, so books in every settlement. It's the first thing that's new in this law, I think it's quality. And secondly, to allow for more units of local self-government to be able to interact, especially if they are territorially relatively close so that they can solve this issue together. And the third thing, that's what you don't see in the law, and that was in the goals, using the resources of European and social funds through the national read-in strategy will be in June, we have secured 49 million kuna for the implementation of the strategy. One of the key things and costs that are acceptable are a Bible - based van or a Bible - based van, or a Bible - based Bible - based van, or a Bible - based Bible - based Bible - based Bible - based van, or a Bible - based Bible - based van, or a Bible - based Bible - based Bible - based Bible - based Bible study. It's about one significant money, and it's the same measure that brings the book closer to every settlement. Here, just at the very end, it was the Vinkovci, which was the esteemed representative of Mr. Vlaovic said, that is indeed the last library that died in the Homeland War, which has not yet been properly earned its place that deserves, we are working on closing the financial structure and I firmly believe that we will also be able to find a library in Vinkovci, which Vinkovci and Vinkovci deserve that, that this will also be a great pleasure solved. And once again I thank you for today's constructive debate, for your support of the Law, I believe that we have a quality law, and this obliges us to further develop library activities, which will go through both the National Plan and through the Regulations, and always in agreement with the library community and forgive them for thanking them in the end, representatives of the library community, the Croatian Library Society, the Croatian Library Council, the Croatian School Libraries, the esteemed Librarians who made an individual contribution to the directors of all university libraries in relation to the mandatory specimen, their contribution to the creation of the Law and for the first reading itself, and now for the second reading is truly immeasurable and here, on this occasion I want to thank them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126739	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, just for the end of one yet concrete question which has, therefore, been imposed on me since the debate itself and there have been a lot of words about digitization, the Law itself goes in that direction. In recent days, we've had opportunities to conduct, here, a big debate on the scanning of digital accounting documents where the accountants will have to take certificates, so I have a specific question, is it possible that library employees in the light of digitisation will have to take certificates regarding the scanning of a particular building?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126741	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126742	The answer to that question is certainly not legal, but as regards certification of scanned documents, this is considered at the level of the whole and archival professions, accountants, entrepreneurs, etc. And I believe that what applies to libraries is beyond that. It is primarily related to accounts that are issued in accounting terms, but we will certainly solve it through the book of standards, but not by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126743	The next replicas of the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126744	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, we have all had an affirmative discussion about this Law, and you have also been in the opening address and have now thanked the librarian's assistance profession, but you have said that there is one part of it perhaps a little dispute, perhaps now is the chance to judge for yourself what part of it is left and what you will do about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126745	The next replicas of the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126746	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, you have managed to confuse me further in your closing statement. So I do not dispute that you prescribe terms for the director, but now, the director of the library in Slunj will have to be a person who, for example, has at least 5 years of experience in the library and passed a professional exam of librarians. If that's not there, in the second repeat contest, he'll have to pass it in three years. The Head of the National University Library does not have to have any days of work in the library, nor a professional exam. It may be which, for example, a professor from a medical, agricultural, shipbuilding college for, because a doctor of science, has five years of experience in an educational institution, he's run, say, some department or some building unit and he meets the formal conditions and he doesn't oblige anyone to pass a professional exam, to have days of work in the profession, okay, you prescribe those conditions, but I'm just saying that it's a little bit expensive maybe illogical for me. For lower levels we have served And we're higher, I don't know. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126747	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126748	Here, I'll do my best to make it a little bit more logical. Here in Art. The 25th century of 4th stands, which has a PhD in science, and then goes, or calls a librarian's advisor, just a little bit, so someone who's a librarian, means he's finished the Library Study and means he's passed a professional exam. So it means he worked at the library. No, why would he be and, here we emphasized the special role of the National University Library and the special role of people who have been engaged in library as doctors of science for years or who are in culture, education or science, so we left that possibility, but after that, we still have to pass. [[Intruder: Please, we won't throw from the bench]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126749	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will now move to a statement on amendments to the final proposal of the Library and Library Activity Act, second reading, P.Z. No. The 431st proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate was concluded and the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, as well as by representatives Marko Sladoljev and Robert Poddolnjak. I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted, which will be a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Kresimir Partl. First of all, the amendment to the Legislative Committee is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126751	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126752	It becomes an integral part of the law. Next, the amendment number 1 of MPs Mark Sladoljev and Robert Podlonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126753	The amendment is not accepted. Amendments to paragraph 1 shall not be accepted in the proposed manner, since the Law on Institutions does not know the concept of an independent institution. The institutions are legal persons, and in legal traffic, they can be holders of rights and obligations. Given the proposed paragraph 2, that a private library as an independent service can be established by another legal and physical person, we point out that the legal form of the establishment of a private library cannot be limited in the proposed way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126754	On behalf of the Proposer of the Amendment, the Honorable Representative of the Sladolevs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126755	Dear Secretary of State, therefore, we will ask for a vote on this amendment we believe that this interference in the law of the concept, the public and private libraries is not good, in addition,... They called for the EU directive, although there is no such thing, so there is a clear distinction in Europe between public and private libraries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we have put in the amendment, so that the public library as an independent institution can establish the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government, and the legal person in largely the ownership of the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local and regional self-government, and two under a private library through an independent institution can establish another legal natural person and we will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126756	Amendment No. 2 and the text of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126757	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendments shall not be accepted. paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 54(2) of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which stipulates that the University may also have libraries as a second component, as well as art. Article 55(1) of the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools, which is prescribed that the school institution has a library in the obligation to establish the same. In accordance with the above, school libraries are established in the form of a school, and can therefore not be provided with specific contracts with another public library by a library of services necessary for the performance of teaching activities, in accordance with the prescribed standards. While high schools and public scientific institutes can specifically contract with another public library, provide libraries of services necessary to carry out teaching and scientific activities in accordance with the prescribed standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126758	The applicant has a respected representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, a respected state prisoner, so this one. On the 10th we catch the slowest in the entire law and we in the parliamentary debate have made it clear that no high agreement has been reached with the library profession, so these amendments have been working with them. So we think that this article will be further reduced, so the standard that is currently in place, that it wants to legalise the current illegal state. We believe that school institutions, higher schools, public and scientific institutes are obliged to establish a library in the form of these institutions. We gave them a reasonable deadline. So, we believe that this proposal of yours will reduce the standard of Croatian libraries and scientific activities in general. We'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126760	Final proposal of the Library Act and library activities, second reading, P.Z. No. 431, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by legislators Marko Sladolov and Robert Poddolnjak. We have agreed on the amendments earlier in the session, we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So the Legislative Committee has been adopted, we are now voting on the amendment of MP Mark Sladolev and MP Robert Podolnjak, that is Amendment No 1 which the Government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go now and vote on the amendment of the same MPs, number two, the government doesn't accept it. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Librarys and Library Activity, please vote. I find that most votes, 105 for and 6 abstentions have been passed by the Library Act and library activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126761	Now we will move to the next point and that is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 445; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The amendment was filed by a representative of Peja Grbin. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126762	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. We have before us the final proposal of the Law on the Protection of the Reporter of Irregularity. This is the first time in such a way that the first law, as a lex specialis, regulates an area that has so far been resolved in several laws, such as the Criminal Law, the Law on Civil Servants, the Labour Act, the Law on Trade, the Law on Officials and corporals in units of local and regional self-government. Despite existing laws, however, there was a necessary need for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose this special law that will strengthen this even more so far, we can say an area that has not been adequately regulated in view of the phenomena in society and the major problem that...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126763	Can I ask you to do your interviews outside the hall of your colleague, the Voter? Your Honor, Secretary of State, go ahead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126764	Thank you very much, thank you, Vice President. How we have witnessed that there are certain risks in all organisations whether public or private, that there are certain risks but also inadequate protection against persons who, as applicants of irregularities or in the public known as whistles, have reported certain acts of corruption, any other irregularities that have had their reflections either under the Penal Code, Criminal Law or by other applicable positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. This Final Proposal for the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity brings together all legal standards for the protection of applicants of irregularities in one specific law. The final draft law clearly defines for the first time the concept of the applicant for irregularities. The final draft of the law also covers a wide range of application of the law and as can be seen from the very definition of irregularities. The draft law prescribes three ways of reporting irregularities that is internal reporting, which means applying to the employer, that refers to those employers and public bodies that have up to 50 employees or employees, the second is externally, that is according to the competent authority, according to the final proposal of the law. As a competent authority, we provide for the Office of the Attorney General who, even so far under the applicable regulations, has a legal role to play so that until this law enters, all irregularities can be adequately resolved and referred to other relevant authorities of the Republic of Croatia. And thirdly, that's public disclosure, that's what if this internal and externally does not show its effects then this third option remains, and that's that the notifier of irregularities through the media and in a certain other way public communication thus sharing his knowledge with the public. What is important to say for this final proposal of the law is that we accept certain changes in relation to the first reading, which are interventions in Article 17, Article 19(2), paragraph 3, where we provide for new paragraphs 4 and 5. In Article 21, we add new items 4 and 5. As far as Article 17 is concerned, we edit the way in more detail, the appointment of a confidential person and the deputy confidential person, which is a novelty compared to the first reading with the participation of 20% of employees, is necessary prior consent of the appointed person. So the person whom the employer foresees as a applicant of irregularities must, of course, agree, also if there is no such 20% employee support and then the employer has his discretionary right to propose to himself if 20% of the employee's proposals appear over time then that changes, of course. In Article 19, we prescribe a procedure for the internal reporting of irregularities more clearly, we prescribe duties that must be exercised by a confidential person with a view to better protecting the applicant of irregularities, as well as making it easier to register applications submitted, we prescribe an obligation for a confidential person to report, by written means, to the competent authority for the external reporting of irregularities on received applications within 30 days of the application decision, that is, Article 19, paragraph 1. Furthermore, in Article 19, we shall add paragraph 4 which provides that the employer may not influence or attempt to influence the conduct of the confidential person or its replacement when taking action in their jurisdiction as necessary to protect the applicant of irregularities. We shall add paragraph 5, which states that a confidential person or his or her replacement should carry out his/her duties legally and knowingly and shall not abuse his/her powers to the detriment of the applicant of irregularities. We are also more detailed in the procedure for the external reporting of irregularities and is added in Article 21 of new paragraphs 4 and 5 in order to enable effective communication and feedback between the competent authority for external reporting, we have said that it is the Ombudsman's staff with the other bodies authorised to act on the content of the application that may be, for example, the national attorney of the Republic of Croatia, other public authorities responsible for further actions if it is established that there are established elements for such follow-up. We must also say that certain proposals that have been crystallized in the first reading... We were unable to accept through the working bodies, given the envisaged proposals that we have made and the inability to address certain issues that have arisen as requests of the Ombudsman, for the time being, we have not accepted this until we see how it will go when this law comes into force, the very way of reporting irregularities, only the necessary people, only the necessary funds at all times, except for the fact that 200,000 kuna per year we give to the Advocate General for Information to the public on this new law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So for as many people as possible, the bodies of the public administration, employers to be introduced to the law. It is £200,000 from the date of entry into force of this law since 1 July 2019, but during time through possible rebalancing and through the need to see how many people are needed, possibly how many applications there are, for now we are proposing redistribution within the Office of the Advocate General. Also, in line with the announced reforms and implementation of the reforms of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for administrative redundancy of the economy, we believe that this proposal, that this figure of 50 employees is reduced by 20 to, this would further bureaucratise and make business conditions more difficult for these smaller companies, legal persons with less than 50 employees. We also believe that this final proposal of the law has no-technically addressed certain shortcomings that occurred in the first reading of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126765	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126766	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, it is necessary to support the intensification of this law and the unification of such standards in one place. However, what I am asking you is do you really think that 200,000 kunas as provided for in the 2019 budget or the same amount provided for in the 2020 and 2021 budgets are indeed sufficient to ensure the orderly functioning of the Ombudsman's Office for these matters, I personally do not believe that they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126767	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126768	1Thank you very much, Vice-President, Your Honor, Grbin, we have said that since the date of entry into force of the law of 1 July 2019, the money served by the Public Information Advocate's Office is for the media promotion that this new Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity or these whistles brings to the public what protection they are, that a person may be considered safer if he reports an irregularity etc. Also, Mrs. Public Advocate has about 45 employees with, more of them with high professional training, we have proposed this first step since the law enters into force, to redistribute a job if possible, if a larger number of applicants appear, we will certainly intervene financially and rebalance the funds. So there's good will and space, and in advance, secure millions and hire people without knowing how much it takes. I don't think it's serious. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126769	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126770	Dear Vice-President, Your Honor, it is good to adopt, forgive, such a law which fully solves all issues relating to the applicant of irregularities, the protection of the identity of the applicant, the protection of the applicant if they are in a permanent working relationship that he cannot be fired, the right to judicial protection, the compensation, the protection of persons with whom the applicant is connected. I ask you whether reporting irregularities should be a secret, because there may be various intentions, unfounded harm to persons or legal entities. It's still a very secret, fog-wrapped case of INE and the whistle-squeezing Vesna Balenovic. We know that the case was neither secret nor protection, it was expressed here identity protection. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please, among other things, it's supposed to be an association. The whistler got half a million kuna from INA. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126771	The following is the replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126772	Thank you very much, Vice-President, Your Honor, part of the question has already been asked by fellow Peđa Grbin, so Croatia is stable in the fight against corruption as we see, according to the latest Transparency International report, where we fell for several additional points, where we scored 48 points last year 49, and we know that the border below which the country is considered corrupt is 50. Therefore, it is very important that citizens, and only 4% of citizens say that they would report corruption or that it sounds even louder, 96% would not report corruption very important that they have protective mechanisms that this law is doing well. However, it leaves a single dose of unseriousness this amount of 200,000 kuna that you have intended for 5 months this year and at the same amount for the next two. So if in 5 months this year you're planning 200,000, then it was logical that for next year at least you say there would be 400,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126773	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126774	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Representative Jovanovic, for the promotion in the first 5 months, we believe that 200,000 kuna is enough, and also next year, these 200,000 kunas can be spent into something else, so it is not so much a promotion every year and I repeat that we sound serious, since this is an important law for all of us, regardless of which side you come left or right, it is important to say that we first regulate this area. There is also a good will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate this as a lex specialis, and we will say that when the law comes into force whether it is necessary to intervene in additional financial resources for the Attorney General's Office, whether it is necessary to call tenders for new employment in the Advocate General's Office. We believe that at this point, and you know it very well, for years you've been dealing with anti-corruption, you've been running this board so it's unserious to give a lot of money, to hire people until we see the effects, the first effects of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126775	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126776	I'd like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, something about finance I'll be a little bit in the debate, I'm only interested in a confidential person. Namely, the employer is obliged to name the proposal up to 20% if they agree, if not alone. Does this confidential person have to be an employee? He doesn't have to. I don't see it in the law whether it has to or not. Is it like that work protection expert, does he have special financial benefits and what if no one wants it to be? I'm not listed here in the law, you can certainly point out that or not, so if he refuses to be, the employer can't carry out his obligation, then he's forced to sanctions. Could he name himself a trusted person, which I think is nonsensical. Or someone else from the administration. So there's just a little bit of it and certainly one of the tasks of art. 19 a confidential person should also be regular annual information on the rights of employees and all benefits resulting from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126777	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126778	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. A confidential person must be an employee of a legal person as well as a replacement of a confidential person. But where, by this proposal of the law, we are not going too far into the depth of norming, we have allowed the employer to solve certain issues by means of his general act, and this general act will have exactly what you say. The status of a confidential person, the status of her replacement, the ways of handling, the means of selecting a confidential person, as it may occur that more persons within one legal person have the support of 20% of the employees, so that the Regulation or some general act should regulate the choice of such persons. So it can be one person, it can be more people, it can be more employees to support more people in older legal entities, so all of this, we leave it to be solved by a general act that the employer or legal person should bring in within 6 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126779	The next replica is the respected representative of Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126780	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In conclusion, the provisions stipulate that this law enter into force on 1 July of this year, even though we will vote it, I believe in a few days in February. And after that we have in transitional terms and quite long deadlines, for the adoption of regulations, and for the appointment of a confidential person for as many as nine months. If you do not think that these deadlines are too long, they will actually, for a long time, delay the real application of this law by 2020, since employers will not appoint confidential persons, this internal channel will not be available. There are a lot of long deadlines that will, in fact, prevent the real implementation of this law that we want to believe will come into force as soon as possible and start to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126781	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126782	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, and now as we discuss this, there is the possibility of reporting irregularities through the attorney general, through the law enforcement body of the Republic of Croatia, the state's attorney, the police, the USKOK, etc. So everyone currently has the right to report any corrupt actions. Why are these deadlines? This is a new law. Most legal people don't know this matter physically. We have left employers with the possibility that within this 6-month period plus 3 months to choose a trusted person that everyone, and here we mention this public promotion, learn that such a law exists. We consider it serious to give a certain amount of time, not ad hoc overnight to push employers into an area they don't know enough about. We believe that the most important thing is that protection exists, that this important law will be passed and that, within the reasonable time limit that we have foreseen, everyone will be made public with the possibilities and with the protection that this law brings to the persons who report irregularities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126783	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126784	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, legal framework, i.e. The bill is not the first time. There were suggestions here a few months ago that were acceptable to me too. Or they could have changed during the debate, but it was withdrawn and now you're making your proposal, but the problem is that the ministry, for example, foreign affairs, Mr Damir Sabelak, has just reported corruption within the ministry, it was also on the anti-corruption board for, in our Parliament, where corruption was apparent and that man has been suspended. So this law is a PR again. A dead letter on paper because if the government you represent now, the people who reported illegality, you suspend and persecute them. So this framework is exclusively clean PR so that you make what are opposition parties, i.e. Then Live Wall suggested, just marginalized and said, so now we're going to give that law. It's the will that counts. and less important paper in the fight against corruption. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126785	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126786	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Bulj, this is the first time that Parliament and the Government have in one serious way resolved by this special law all rights, all obligations and any possibility of persons reporting irregularities or possible corruption activities in public institutions or their employers. I would not go into specific cases because we would go into one area that I consider to be a population, here I am very important that, by one quality law, HS we all show to the public together and give a message that such actions are possible and that the legislator will solve this issue in one serious and quality way. We feel that we have a quality legislative proposal, that we expect this law to liven up in full terms when it comes to application and that we have strengthened what we have today. All these specific cases that you mention to the already competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia may be reported and investigations may continue to be carried out... So we shouldn't be insecure in such an important situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126787	Thank you. Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, honourable representative Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126788	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The adoption of the Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregular Irregular Code on whistles should contribute to strengthening the legal protection of applicants of irregularities and raise public awareness of the necessity of reporting irregularities in order to protect public interest. This is what the legislator states and we expect in the Croatian Parliament. It is therefore important to pass the law and finally vote and how whistle protection instruments will function later in practice. This law should serve as a guarantee to any person who has knowledge and wants to report irregularities that not only the law but also those institutions in charge of its protection will provide all possible assistance and prevent any form of retribution or revenge. It is known that in the procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council, a proposal for a Directive on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law is made. So while we are discussing our final draft law today, there is also a proposal for a European directive, which deals with the same problem and, of course, it should be said that this Final Bill is normally followed by the proposal of the European Directive in a good part of its provisions. Since this directive is under discussion to provide that its implementation in the legal order of the EU Member States takes place by May 2021, I must say that it is commendable that this law is already being proposed for adoption and that it is rare for us to implement and transpose a European directive in our legal order even before these deadlines for such application are laid down. Of course, among the remarks we have on this Final Proposal of the Law we will single out and we will also make a few amendments to certain proposals, certain provisions in this final proposal. First of all, we want to further guarantee the prohibitions set out in Article 5 of this final proposal. It is currently defined as a ban on the reporting of irregularities. We would strengthen this formulation if not only the prevention of reporting but also the prevention of the establishment of irregularities after the application has been filed. In addition, we would like to better define what is considered to be an unfavourable position of the applicant for irregularities in the context of this law. In fact, our legal text discusses a ban on putting in an unfavourable position people reporting irregularities. The European Directive speaks simple words of revenge. In our opinion, the European Directive defines in a very good way what these are all possible forms of revenge against those who report irregularities. They therefore also come from the temporary departure of persons from the workplace, layoffs, resolutions, denials of promotions, setbacks, negative labour assessments, different forms of disciplines, discrimination, different forms of mobbing, no extension of work contracts for a certain period of time, etc. In our final proposal for the Law, Article 6 is also defined, so all of what is considered to be an unfavourable position of a person reporting irregularities, however not in the same way as the directive defines and we would say does not define and does not take into account all possible forms of revenge set out in the Directive. And therefore, we feel that a better solution is to take the direct text of the article, I think that article 14th is in a directive that lists all possible forms of revenge. We have chosen one, one possible revenge that you have mentioned well from the final proposal of the Law, which is not contained in the proposal for a directive, which is an arbitrary reference to health checks or checks for the purpose of assessing the ability to work and other unfavourable actions. We do not think there is any obstacle to the final proposal of the Law to put in place a formulation which therefore directly stems from the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. We would also like this Law to come into force as soon as possible and to apply it because you said it is possible to report irregularities now, that is correct, but this Law speaks of the protection of persons who will report irregularities. And my colleague Bulj mentioned Mr. Sablek who reported certain irregularities, but we all know what sanctions he is now facing, that he is now actually in the official court and the question is what sanctions follow him. But this law still doesn't give him legal protection. It would therefore be extremely important for this Law to come into force as soon as possible. So it's not just enough that he'll come into force on July 1st of this year. There are deadlines for the Ombudsman to adopt certain regulations, there are deadlines for certain General Acts to be brought by employers, to name a confidential person, but, as I said in the opening line, it is inappropriate for us to leave them a period of 9 months after the Law enters into force, to name a confidential person. So now it's February, the law will probably be passed in a week or two. By 1 July, there is sufficient time for all entities who have to comply with this Act and the Ombudsman and employers who are obliged to adopt a certain General Act and who are obliged to appoint a trusted person that does not take so long after 1 July that the Law can be fully revived and we think it is reasonable to change these deadlines for the employer to appoint a trusted person, not within 9 months, but within 6 months and that the Law can be fully applied from the beginning of the following year. In fact, we are saying this because employers name confidential persons who will be tasked with reporting irregularities by persons, primarily likely employees in that legal person, who have also been identified by the person who has knowledge. Therefore, these confidential persons are the internal reporting channel provided for in this Act, which is also provided for by the European Directive. Let me get something short on that. Namely, the most doubtful or skeptical in the implementation of this Act, but also in the European Directive, the NGO, the Whistle Association, sees precisely in this internal application channel which is required as a first step with certain exceptions provided for by the Law because they do not have great expectations of this internal application channel. Therefore, from a trusted person appointed by an employer, who should, therefore, be the first to act on the basis of the irregularities observed from the applicant. We have certain skeptics, too, and we have far greater expectations than the external channel of reporting irregularities, which is the independent institution, in our case, the law provides for a public defender. Of course, we cannot speak in advance until the Law has come into life, how in practice this internal channel will act, that external channel, but it is extremely important for us, and we primarily expect that the Ombudsman, as an independent body, will have enough resources to really act on the protection of whistles, because they will certainly turn to that external channel in large numbers, even in certain situations, and skip the internal application channel because in this sense, the law provides certain opportunities with certain exceptions. What is important for us to say is that in certain provisions of the Law we see certain important rights of the applicant of irregularities, therefore, the right to protection and judicial and damages and protection of identity and confidentiality. We will see how these protections will work in practice because the court proceedings, as we know, can be very long-term, the question is what will be the protection of the person who reported irregularities during a long period of time when faced with judicial proceedings. We would also expect the legislator to propose certain stronger forms of protection, for example, and the possibility of using free legal assistance in judicial protection procedures because we expect that whistles will be largely exposed to the sanctions of employers and that we do not underestimate the dangers they are exposed to. What we are partly concerned about in this Law is the prohibition of abuse of the reporting of irregularities. You provide a lot of harsh sanctions for persons who, as defined in the final proposal of the Law, would abuse the reporting of irregularities in the sense that they provided information that they knew were not true, where they seek an unlawful advantage or where they are taking other actions which are intended exclusively to harm the employer. This third point is very undefinedly defined that the applicant represents certain irregularities, and that the employer will charge him to do so with the sole purpose of harming the employer, although these other actions are not defined by the Law, and the question is how will this be interpreted in practice. We are aware that this provision is a potential danger because the European Directive is exclusively talking about malicious applications, does not define closer, which means malicious application. This definition you've given in art. 8. because very wide and can serve employers as an opportunity to sue applicants of irregularities with slightly undefined definitions of damage to the employer. Here it may be better to elaborate better, but we will see very soon in the application of the law what the relationship of employers is, therefore, those legal persons on whom these irregularities have been reported and we will have to believe urgently intervene in certain amendments to the law in order to further protect whistles that will be exposed to certain pressures or perhaps lawsuits or other types of sanctions and tight procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126789	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go. Here, I use the occasion before my colleague Curaj starts speaking to say hello at the school gallery of students and students of the Construction and Technical School of Zagreb. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126790	Here's a nice greeting once again, thank you Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, as you would say ab this, so let's start over. Article 3, first of all, just so I certainly think that this law is absolutely what it is to praise, which is, to the greatest extent possible, there is never a guarantee of the protection of whistles, can never be 100% warranty, but what we, as legislators, must foresee the highest degree and the maximum possible protection of applicants of irregularities in order to know that they have that protection, have freedom and have been free to actually report everything they think and are convinced that irregularities, or illegal actions. Article 3 sets out the concepts, so clearly that we understand each other here, we are talking about employers who have 50 or more, or more than 50 employees and public authorities. And now we get to paragraph 8. Who's a confidential person. That's something I've already listed in my replica. This is the person as indicated here to receive reports of irregularities and conduct procedures concerning the reporting of irregularities. The first thing that isn't listed whether this person must be an employee at all. We know that everything that is not forbidden is allowed, all that is not stated is subject to interpretation. So someone can, as any employer, question it that it can be said by a certain law firm, a lawyer, an external service provider, etc. a confidential person. Especially in a situation where we say that that's why public authorities are in charge. So we have a community where, except for the chief and deputy, there are three employees, four supervisors, an administrative associate, maybe one director, and that's it. And they can't have those 20% or they can't agree or there's 4 of them, so they have two and an employer then decides to be, in the first case, the principal who's the person, the confidential person who might be going to the applications right now. It's not illegal or be that outside associate like I said. So we can have a situation with these bodies of public authority and yet in other companies, especially those working on some dislocated ones, they have branches throughout Croatia, so they're not together, so they have more than 50 employees but they don't have a total of more than 10. And it's the same operationally quite difficult, then communicate with them all in that way. It may occur to us that this trusted person is also not forbidden, of course, to be one of the management staff within the structure itself, whether bodies of public authority or certain companies. It doesn't even say here that it is, it's not possible to be the director himself, the board member and whatever. Because if they can't make a deal, he calls himself. Another thing, we're talking about what people's motivations are to do in this business, whether it's a financial reward. Because it can really happen to us that no one can agree that no one wants to take the job. No one wants to object, there are people who don't want to at all, in fact, have those who might and... And they're just trying to make the right thing to say and it's always found, but de facto, we can have a situation where no one wants to, and then the employer determines who they'll be until they agree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then maybe they'll pick someone on the outside, they can determine themselves or anyone else. So in this sense, it is clear that the intensity of the legislation, absolutely to welcome and the channels that we have identified that come later, appear. And it is certain that this internal application is the first step and that this person must have the confidence of the employees. If we're already losing that main and basic condition here, then we've lost the whole first step. Because if we put that head of staff, some executive staff, the director of a sector, the very member of the administration or an outside lawyer appointed by the administration, we're losing that part of the trust right now. A team worse because then now this lawyer comes into some kind of collage if he can at all, I don't know if, given the protection of confidential information between the client and him, the client is, of course, a member of the board, the workers deliver to him, there can be really anything. It's just something like that in some crazy, crazy cases but I'm not a supporter to make too many things normal but we know what our people's mentality is that wherever they can go to get... Or he'll go get... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's not at best, most often, if it isn't, at best if it's not prohibited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would not agree with my colleague earlier that, with Article 8 of the ban on the use of irregularities, that it is too wide, we may also have the opposite effect. This puts one subjective, subjective impression, i.e. the relationship that this person who supplied the information had to know that it was not true. It's a little hard to determine, prove, given that it's a certain subjective, certain subjectivism in question, whether to deliver some formulation, and had to know that it wasn't or was no one else could be familiar with the actual state, then yes. But if someone saw something, so deliberately, deliberately went and we're talking about such employees reporting, so this commissioner refuses, so he reports to the competent authority, so the competent authority takes his testimony that still a secret person as a credible person, so he starts the procedure, so there's even a motion to press charges and then in court he has to come testify and then it turns out that he didn't really testify either that he didn't say anything else or that he was released. When it comes to court, let's say he reported it, the court releases no irregularities, which we will now, and then his identity is known or not. Did he abuse it, did he not, did the employer suffer damages for something that has the rightful verdict, did he then sue him for it? Anything else can be there, but we're gonna have to make it look in, in the walk itself. So, the intensity is what's very good that every applicant needs to be protected, that he has to know and that's where we really come to Article 12 that talks about protection, and I would even, there are those penalties as a rule of 3 to 30,000 kunas for those who make, even if I don't know if it can save, it can't, it doesn't fall within the criminal legal sphere, but sometimes those penalties should be possible and maybe even bigger is not the same when trust is lost, it's not the same thing as seeing that someone get a fine of 5,000 kuna, you might think. The employer pays him a one-time non-taxable 5,000 kuna and well, which he has the right to pay the fine. The employer's obligation, I have therefore stated, and I believe that when we talk about those employers who have more than 50 employees, we will exclude this part of this, the public powers that have less, surely that the motivation of the person who would be appointed is this main issue, and we must not impose any further pressure on our employers that they must now pay this person extra or take someone special who would do so, is it de facto that someone can only hire someone to do it. We have different public bodies and see by systematization someone has places where they're called a confidential person's place of work where they collect it and it's just his place of work and it's possible. To be a description of his job and nothing else, if it's a big system why not, especially in the public systems of the public authority, the state bodies always know that they all have a systematic 500 and they've been working for 20 years, and now I don't know who he's lying about whether he needs 500 or not, if he's doing 300, if he's doing 300, I mean, we've done it really well long ago, but that's the subject of another law. And when we come to the obligation of that person confidential, I would really like to stand by to make sure that his one-of-a-kind commitment to all of these now that I don't read them again which are in paragraph 2, the duties actually which are his, to put exactly the information of employees on their rights, on his obligations, on his secrecy, on the procedure and on all of that. Is this law only going to win some success if people know about it that it exists, that they have certain rights and that the fear of this equation is devoid of. Then, it is the purpose and purpose of this law, not that people are afraid to apply, not to say it to me, I can only have those inconveniences because of it and at all why they would do it, but that they know they're doing a good thing in the extreme line that they can even help the employer because we don't have to de facto say that this employer and the one he's applying for, it can be someone who's in charge within a particular sector, so it doesn't have to be a key employer as the owner of a company or a responsible person in a company that can be far lower-ranking person. And that's where it's already started and there's definitely what it's supposed to be, so I'd like it to be the same if we can think about it once again or at least in those rules that we should definitely put this in order to be some framework rule for the adoption of the company itself that they need to have once-a-year rights, the obligation in any way in writing, orally, whatever it is to inform employees about their rights stemming from this law and what it all means. I think it's very important, and this application protection process is very important because it's crucial, that we just want to release it, that we allow people without any concern to step forward and report it, and that's for sure that it's something that we're going to say they didn't want to force people to think again and stay away from any irregularities. As for the financial part, I agree with the promoter that he can't, I haven't seen one here, not one study that de facto says doesn't need 200,000 takes 548,000 or needs 1,200,000 or 738,542 kunas for this year based on that and that. There is no, important that there is an item in the budget, it is important to know the obligations, I would like to say that, and certainly there will be revenue in the state budget from these criminal penalties for employers and for all those who trespass on this law, that those funds may also be treated as intended, that they are now going to finance the work of the attorney general and the extra funds to be spent on informing the citizens or all those who fall under this law. In this way, we could certainly be able to track it through the Treasury itself and the Ministry of Finance, but surely that in this way one law enforcement obligation may be created to mean that it is a means of purpose, and that it must provide it as much as it should, depending on the number of applications, depending on how many, because you need to know that the attorney general for all those companies that have micro-enterprises that have less than 50 employees, in fact, that first instance, we don't have a person classified in those three steps, then it's the first instance, except of course, or in paralysis if we look at some competent body of prosecution or prosecution, whatever. And then we might expect to get a certain number, but no one can look at the ball and say how much it will be. It is important that we have an item in the budget, and it is important that it is further said here that 200 or 22,000 is the only thing that matters is that there is no financial limit on the work and that there is therefore the inability to fully implement this Act which we absolutely support in the club of the HNS and we believe that it will receive the best effects if people know what their rights are and that they are truly guaranteed, their protection and anonymity at a certain, of course, until a certain moment of application, that they do not have to fight absolutely. Here, I think that, we're going to apply the amendment to this part, at least as far as it goes, who can be a confidential person because we think that there might still be a little bit of a norm in that direction, which is both the intensity and the very spirit of this law and the intensity of the proposer himself, so I believe that with this we're going to get a great basis for further improvement, for further progress, and to see exactly what this will mean in practice, but this is one big step and certainly as many people as we know this and what people are aware of and of their rights that it will also be better efficiency of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126791	On behalf of the club, here's the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126792	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult on this bill. In fact, the government is sending this Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity or Whistlers into the procedure, while at the same time the Prime Minister is harshly opposed to applicants of irregularities. Namely, here when I asked him a question about the illegal spending of money at the Embassy in Canberra and Washington, he said from the highest position in this country, that such notions usually lead to nothing, which he rudely opposed the applicants of irregularities. This case Mr. Sablak, a diplomat, means we also had here before the Anti-Corruption Council in HS where the Chief Inspector of the Ministry Mr. Christmas confirmed that the Rules were violated, that Mrs. Loretta Bertosha Kushen was falsely deployed, which is why she had to be removed from the post of secretary-general at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and Mr Paro, for whom the state audit found irregularities in Washington about the involvement of an external person, waited for months to confirm that he was going to Brussels, eventually went there and went because the president and prime minister had reconciled, the president became an exponent of Plenkovic's policy, so, here, those who did these irregularities were rewarded, and Mr Sablak was away from the service. On the same day I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic and when he gave such an unacceptable answer, he rejected the criminal application, and to this day the criminal application was not sent to see neither Mr Sabek nor me nor the Anti-Corruption Council in HS. So it's obvious there's something hiding here, and Mr. Sableak himself hasn't been questioned at all even though he's filed a criminal report and offered USKOK to give additional information. This is about corruption being protected from the highest levels of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126793	Thank you. I saw someone else raise their hand, colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126794	So they would also like to seek a break because there were people who reported irregularities, say, in HDZ and testified about it in court. However, now, they have acknowledged what they were doing, and then when the retrial came, they no longer remember, and now the question is whether these people should still have witness status or maybe they should have had the status of indictees or maybe they should give this status as protected whistles, but I say, then we should repeat the same story again, and not suddenly senile, so to speak, in some way forget everything because they used to talk about having paidouts in the garden of the house, talk about how they were carrying bags with black HDZ funds, about everything and everything, and today they don't remember anything, today when they're asked, immediately with their heads, and when some others are so quick of their heads, then they reported them, like Luke Modrić for giving false testimony, and these people with HDZ trials with their heads and Sanadar, they don't even make any more of their testimony, so that they don't even make any of their statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126795	Anyone else want a break? No, I don't. I'll see you at 3:15, then, at 13.15, I'm sorry. Interrupt session at 1:00 p.m. Given the large number of registered 4 clubs, 9 individual clubs, which means that without any replicas, we're going to be doing this point for another two and a half hours. We're going to finish our work with this point today, and then we're going to continue next week with the next points. We will now continue to work on this point, and on behalf of the club of representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA will now speak the esteemed representative Ivan Willibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126797	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, today we have the Law on Reporters of Irregularity, the Law on whistles, as it is popularly called. We could talk about him as the Law on Reporters of Corruption and Crime, that would be one of those perfect names, and I was inspired by Mrs. Sonja Vlahek with whom we worked the 11 o'clock conference today. - Mrs. Crescent. Sonja Vlahek told her googoto, her Calvary, her painful story, the story that began when the gates of hell opened after she refused to sign the invoice of Croatian mail to the Fima media requested by her almighty director, God and the beating in... Croatian Post Office, Robert Jukic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] From degradation, descending from higher ground to lower, from mobbing, terror, pressure, threats, blackmail, to physical assault on Mrs. Sonja Vlahek. - Mrs. Crescent. Sonja Vlahek had civil courage to stand up to such a system, to fight for justice, and many of our other citizens, not only in Croatia, but also in the INA, but also in the Immunological Institute, the Croatian Forests, everywhere, known and unknown, wanted to believe that the Republic of Croatia is a legal state, that the rule of law must be established, that those who fight crime will be rewarded, and those who committed crime will be punished. As a rule, however, this does not happen. As a rule, this Law on Reporters of Irregularity doesn't happen. It's actually just a formal nature. He is only formal in nature, he will not lead to an improvement in the general state, and the general state in the Republic of Croatia is such that a clear message is being sent that crime is being paid off. It's a clear message and I keep repeating how many times from this pay phone, a clear message from politics is being sent, crime is being paid. The main generator of corruption, unfortunately, are the Croatian Government and the Parliament are being passed here by laws, decisions on appointments, I don't know, directors, directors, etc. or government as someone we delegate or the ruling majority, and if a criminal act is allowed here to buy a representative who is very difficult to prove, unfortunately, that is another thing, but defacto is a crime, a crime for which Mr. Sabo has fallen, convicted, the most famous case, if allowed here, which can only be expected at other levels. Let's just remind the Transparency International Index on the state of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, we've fallen from 49 points to 48 again, we're getting more corrupt, we're in a falling trend, and the government shows no serious intentions, but only formal intentions to do something. Its fight against corruption is only declarative, it cannot be different because it itself is created on such foundations, has no legitimacy of Croatian citizens, but neither will the government, nor will the government forever. I repeat, a serious fight against corruption cannot be fought without the protection of whistles, brave people who expose themselves, the lives of their families because they want good to this society, they want us all to be well, not just individuals. They could also bend their heads, bow their heads, not cut off, people's saying, could bow their heads, receive bribes, or who knows everything else they could do and have their place of work today, however, they chose a second time. True heroes of Croatian society, I would even call them one of the ideal citizens, an ideal citizen. We need to create an atmosphere where whistles feel safe. We don't create this atmosphere exactly the opposite of this bill that's insufficient, insufficient we're actually sending one message, business as usual. Business assual. You can't expect the state to stand behind you to a serious extent if you see irregularities. Compared to our law that we proposed a few years ago, it's been a year now, this isn't even the shadow of that law. First of all, our bill applies to all whistles. And those who so far have decided to face corruption and crime until the entry into force of this law. From Mrs. Crescent. Vlahek, from Vesna Balenović, from Sreko Sladoliev and I say, again, many known and unknown, let no one resent me, my time is running, that I may not be numbered. We all, we say, thank you people, but, well, like you didn't, here you go. It's like you're not. One slap in the face of 20, and even now almost 30 years of whistle initiatives, and I can't live with that, and I absolutely don't support this law. We need to establish a system in which the one in which the person who wants to expose himself will be rewarded will be encouraged to help society, to bring the whole society forward. It should be a commitment at the level of this Parliament, at the level of the government. Serious measures, so if there's no idea from the government how to do it, if they don't listen to opposition proposals, let's not invent hot water. Let us take examples from Europe, from the world. Let's take a Romanian example. Laura Kövessi, DNA agency. If I am not wrong about Directia National Anti-Corruptie or how it is already read in Romanian is one of the examples that the European Commission says in its report that corruption should be fought. If I remember the number, 1500 officials, politicians and mayors, the MPs fell due to DNA work in Romania. No, we're neither close nor willing to go that way at all. As for calling corruption, I would just remind myself, to return to the moment in Croatia's mail, that Mr. Evey Sanader, the prime minister who has already been here for 10 years in politics, is being tried for a whole series of corrupt affairs. I'd like to mention this FIMI media that's dragging itself through a number of companies that have been getting money out of. I would also mention the Hypo affair where we have a verdict on war profit, though, still inadmissible. I'm still unfortunately inadmissible. Mr. Domagoj Margetić, who wrote this book, is precisely the one responsible for the discovery of the Hypo affair, he also writes about the Croatian post office in his book. The HP affair in a serious country would have been resolved in a few years, it would have been asked Mr. Jukic what was happening there, what kind of invoices were given to FIMI Media, M-SAN, I don't know, Pliva, Sokola Maric and all the known and unknown companies that HP was dealing with at the time. It would be Mr. Bozidar Kalmet, and if I'm not mistaken, his then secretary, Mr. Boric, what was happening in the infrastructure sector you're in charge of. Maybe now that he's being tried for highways, he gets asked questions like that. A serious country would protect whistles, stand behind them to a full extent, and it would not happen in trials that because of fear, pressure, and everything else. These measures in this law I have not seen, I repeat, the law is insufficient. As for specifically, here I am, explaining why the law is not valid, an example of HP regarding Mr Jezic, has anyone asked him about his property? Where did he get what he has or doesn't have? Of course not, because there is no serious approach in this country to the investigation of the origin of the property. He doesn't exist. I've sent a question to the prime minister to explain to me which institutions are doing this, be careful where he's taking me, to the POSI. To the Committee of Decisions on conflict of interest. I'm asking them formally, if I had formal records, they're something hilly, we're checking by card, etc. We also have that sector in the IRS, but since the change of government took place, it has fallen to low branches. In practice, property in Croatia is not seriously checked by anyone. And as long as that doesn't happen, in fact, the fight against corruption is purely declarative. And that's why Romania beat us to it. If the Croatian government does not know on its own what, let it not invent hot water, let it learn from more successful ones, those even the European Commission has told in its report that they are more successful, and that is to say, just an example of Romania. Unfortunately for Prime Minister Plenkovic, it doesn't matter what the real situation is, he doesn't care about real indices, independent indicators, professional indicators, even European Commission indicators, he only cares about perception. It's just his perception that something out there looks good, that something's working, that something's moving, that something's being reformed. In fact, everything remains as it is, business assual. And that's why this whole law is unfortunately farce and I'm afraid there will be no significant change, and in particular there will be no serious fight against corruption and crime and protection of applicants of irregularities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126798	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Sokol will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, fellow MPs, we have before us the final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. So, it's an extremely important law, I'm going to try to concentrate on the provisions of the law that this is about, my predecessor didn't quite say much, but well, that's their choice. Ours, so this is an extremely important topic, a topic that attracts great media attention and, of course, that many political spears are being broken around it. The fact is that corruption exists, the fact is that the possibility of reporting and protecting so-called. The whistle whistle is extremely necessary. We are also here, unfortunately, such cases of corruption and criminal acts and suspicions of punishment have not passed either politics or this Assembly, so we know that some parties, like the Live Wall, have also been accused by their former members, for yellow envelopes of undeclared donations, etc. And that's what affects the perception that my colleague Sincic was talking about. And it's from what's definitely not good and that's what we have to fight. What would point out, however, is that there are already provisions in the Croatian legal system that protect people who report corruption, only it becomes partial. So it becomes criminal legal protection, protection against job dismissal, protection from discrimination and whistles after registration, protection from abuse by the employer, protection from threats of dismissal, reverse burden of evidence in work disputes, anonymity of whistles etc. However, the others would in particular point out Article 14. And the Civil Service Act where there are several provisions that are just regulating this topic. So we have a provision that if a reasonable suspicion of corruption is reported, that this is not a valid reason for the termination of someone's service, and that protection of anonymity is guaranteed, in the event of the reporting of serious forms of corruption. Provisions are also prescribed to sanction the abuse of such situations, so that there are already provisions and certain regulations, only of course the issue of their practical application, without entering specific cases, should certainly be highlighted, so that our legislation, in many places, regulates these things. I'm saying, it's a matter of practice, but there's a need to concentrate on what the authorities are doing, not on media signs, and use it to collect certain political points. As far as the laws themselves are concerned, such as the Penal Code, the Law on Trade, the Labour Act, the Law on Civil Servants, etc. There is, of course, the Law on the procedure laid down, which contains a whole series of provisions, which prescribes the protection of the endangered witness, as he could just be a witness, who reports that the crime, which represents corruption, is. So you certainly had it on the legal level then in that part. Now the need to protect the so-called. The whistler, also noted on the international agenda, and in the draft of this bill, took into account international standards for the protection of whistles, in particular the Council of Europe's 2014 recommendations and the proposed directive mentioned by counterpart Podolnjak in its debate on behalf of the Bridge Club. As far as the directive itself is concerned, I am very pleased that we are going here in front of the EU, in particular that this directive is in a relatively early phase of the ordinary legislative process itself, and I don't think it has even come to the first reading of the European Parliament yet, that only recently has the initiative of an inter-institutional dialogue, so it is a big question when it will come into force, which will be its provisions, etc. As for this directive, I would also point out that it covers only those cases which are within the scope of EU law, so this is the case, so it prescribes the protection of whistles in case of infringement of EU law. Of course, EU law covers a very broad area, which includes protection, security, consumer protection, food safety, product safety, the issue of public procurement, but there are areas that can very much be subject to registration, so I am certainly glad to have doubts about corruption and parts which are not covered by EU law. As far as the provisions of the law are concerned, it clearly defines the concept of irregularities, the concept of applicant irregularities, which can enjoy protection as a notifier. It is not until the end of the current legislation that the applicant is considered an irregularist, or whistler, but under that phenomenon is considered to be a person who reports corruption in good faith and is therefore not even visible when a person reporting corruption becomes a whistler or, therefore, a applicant of irregularities. The same term can easily be identified with the term of the endangered witness and the Crown Witness and the Criminal Procedure Act, i.e., the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, so we have here in a special law clearly defined, which is certainly not bad. This final draft of the law also extends the scope of irregularities defined, and now protection concerns not only cases of corruption, but includes irregularities concerning violations of laws and other regulations and the unconscious management of public goods, public funds and EU funds, which pose a threat to public interest. So they're not taxing, but the definition includes a fairly broad circle of irregularities, which is certainly not bad to extend the scope of the whistles themselves, meaning when they report certain illegal actions. Furthermore, this final bill, the applicants of irregularities, provides protection not only for persons in working relationship with the Labour Act, but also for the protection of the provision of a wider circle of persons, such as volunteers, students, persons working through a contract of work, i.e. those involved in the activities of the employer, and also for persons who participated as candidates in employment procedures. This is also a good solution, because these individuals can also have information of any importance, and if they do not report irregularities, they should certainly be covered. Therefore, in general this final draft of the law, the ban on the prevention of the reporting of irregularities, the ban on placing applicants of irregularities in an unfavourable position, but also the need for the handling of the applicant of irregularities in good faith and the prohibition of abuse of the reporting of irregularities. So I think it's extremely important that such a provision exists, that the application of irregularities would not be used for personal accounts, which, unfortunately, in the political arena too, we can bear witness quite often. Personally, I also feel that this is not to be exaggerated, I don't think that this provision of the law is bad, practice, of course, remains on crack, to define what all cases should be. Of course, if it turns out that there are problems in practice, that there is no uniform application of the law, because of the inconsistencies of the court bang, provisions can always be amended, further precision, etc. But I'm saying personally I'm never in favour of reforming, we're often prone to it, so here we should also give an opportunity, to a law like this that regulated it to live. So, this final bill provides for the right to protect applicants of irregularities, which includes protection in accordance with the procedures, which are also provided for by this law. In particular, it is pointed out that applicants of irregularities have the right to judicial protection on compensation for damages, protection of their identity and confidentiality, and protection is extended to persons with whom irregularities are linked. The need to assist applicants with irregularities by a court or other body which conducts the procedure is highlighted so that the notifying authority would not be deprived of any of its rights for reasons of ignorance. What's particularly important, so there are, as already mentioned, three types of reporting, so there's internal, external and public disclosure. Now, the internal application has been said quite a bit. So it's about applying means inside actually the employer himself, there's been a question of defining a confidential person, etc. As far as this is concerned, in fact, the law makes a trusted person quite broadly defined, i.e. it is not prescribed to be an employee, but I refer to the first point of the article that regulated it and which states that the employer must ensure the possibility of internal reporting. Now, I think that through a meaningful, or telelogical interpretation of the law, it can be concluded that if the employer named himself for mentioning some here as an opportunity to say that this provision is not respected, or that he did not thus provide a de facto possibility to apply. So I think that through interpreting the existing provisions that definition of a confidential person can be narrowed down through interpretation and practice, but I say of course we'll see how the HNS amendment will be defined, whether it can be defined by law itself more precisely. Some of the situations were also mentioned about what if it was a bad atmosphere and no one would like to come forward because of the 20% I can suggest, etc. Now I think that if the situation is such and the atmosphere is so bad within that employer that everyone is afraid to apply, that everyone is afraid to participate at all in this process and that no one dares anything, then it's hard for that model to work in that internal login employer at all. But that's why there's an external reporting that's just scheduled for situations where successful internal reporting is not possible. And that's why I think it's good to have these more mechanisms that are in line with Council of Europe's recommendations and that's certainly not bad. It also mentioned the question of the definition of employer as a firm, or employer with more than 50 employees if it was not a public sector, actually. Now, as far as I'm concerned, I'm inclined to support this provision, among other things, in the draft directive, so you have in the draft directive that internal application refers to an employer who employs more than 50 people, or if there is, if he deals with specific sectors or has an annual turnover of more than 10 million euros. I think that in practice in Croatia such a situation will hardly allow employers who employ less than 50 workers, so I think that this provision of the law will actually cover those cases under the directive. And I also think that since we often talk about the heavy burden of administrative and all possible types of regulation on employers in Croatia that they do not need real employers who employ 21, 22 workers to further burden them with this whole formal procedure and appointment. I say for such cases there are other reporting channels that are actually there to solve problems and to protect the applicants themselves from irregularities. As regards the procedure for external reporting irregularities, a number of international documents and recommendations provide for the establishment of a competent authority in charge of the protection of whistles. This final draft of the law prescribed that the Croatian prosecutor was involved. So I think that provision is good, and I think the attorney general can do it in a good way, and he has the resources to do it. Of course, when the law comes into practice that always takes several months to see how much, whether additional resources are needed, additional employment, etc. I don't think it should be prejudged that the attorney general in this current form with the current number of employees and with the current structure will not be able to do so but really see how the law will live in practice. So the law further predicts situations where the applicant of irregularities can also disclose information to the public. They shall further provide for the judicial protection of applicants of irregularities within a subjective period of 3 years from the date on which the applicant has learned of a harmful action or an objective period of 5 years from the date on which the harmful action against the notifier is taken. And what I would particularly point out is that irregularities are proposed to be exempt from the costs of paying court fees. Here's what this means is just another example of a provision that is very helpful and goes in favor of the applicants so that I can't agree with what some former club representatives have said that this law doesn't bring anything to the applicants, but I think it brings a lot of it. It is also important that the urgency of the judicial protection procedure is prescribed, with the proper application of the provisions of the Law on litigation relating to work disputes unless the law provides for something special. So we know that labour disputes have priority and I believe that in practice the issue of applicants of irregularities that we know in our legal system, the judicial system, although these deadlines are falling and although the delays are less but still these time periods are still not negligible in certain types of procedures, so this emergency provision is certainly something that is important for applicants and which gives them one additional protection, the protection of their rights in one court procedure. Thus, in order to ensure that this law is not only declared, it contains procedural provisions which provide for the submission of several different types of action, all in order to protect the applicant of irregularities and provides for the possibility of urgent determination of provisional measures in order to prevent irreparable damage to the applicants of irregularities. This is also an extremely important provision because the procedures themselves can be done if they do not act on time and while the final, or a final, judicial decision can cause damage to all applicants, and therefore this possibility is explicitly foreseen by the law which I think is good and that another proof of how it has actually been done in favour of the applicant of irregularities. In short, we at the HDZ Club think that this final bill is good, that it is good, that it improves the protection of applicants of irregularities. We think that it unites systematically into one place all of their rights that they have and it's certainly one step forward. As regards alternative proposals, I would really not enter them, but I would point out that we in the Constitution have an article 90 that prohibits retroactiveness except in strictly envisaged cases, and this is especially so in cases concerning criminal law because there are fundamental rights of the defendants, etc. So it might sound good that the current law could regulate certain things that happened 20 years ago, but in practice I don't think such a provision of the law would have passed, I don't think that if anything else had passed the constitutionality test, so I don't think people should be fooled by certain things that the law simply isn't possible, but should be supported by this final bill, see if some things can possibly still be specified, although I think it's also like this, that the law and this kind of good, and for that reason, the HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126800	Thank you very much, we have one breach of the Rules of Procedure raised, the esteemed representative of Bunjac. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126801	Thank you very much, Article 238 was injured, namely Representative Sokol persistently talks about any claims that there were envelopes in the Living Wall, etc., I would just like to ask if he received this information from Franje Varga or Blaž Curic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126802	Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that you have abused this institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I give you a warning about it. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. At first glance, when we talk about something like the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, therefore, the Act on the Protection of whistles would normally be that we all support it and, of course, we at the Club of Representatives of the SDP support the adoption of such a law. But the fact that we support the adoption of a legal act that will in one place regulate the entire matter of protection of the whistler's applicant does not mean that the protection in a specific case is secured. In fact, if you look at the norms of that law and compare them in a large part with reality, you will realize that this law is actually a dead letter on paper, that this law is another desire of the ruling to show that they are doing something without actually doing anything. Let me explain. As my esteemed predecessor said, exactly this law defines three ways in which we will face, face, fight against irregularities. Three ways in which persons who have faced certain irregularities, malfeasances or so on will be able to address third parties in order to expose these irregularities. And let's start with the one in the media and the public the most interesting, and that's the revelation. Realistically, when we talk about disclosing this law, God knows what new, if someone thinks some crime has been committed or so on, remember, for example, the case of Mrs. Lepai and so far he could have reported it, that perhaps in certain situations this law makes it easier for those who expose their legal position, but so far it has been so. And so far, court proceedings could first and foremost prove that the public interest in a particular case prevails over the private, partial, that some information remains secret. This law makes it easier, but objectively on disclosure as well as perhaps the most important media and the public most interesting part of the whistle action did not bring much. Which means we're left with two other elements of this law, which is external and internal disclosure. Now, let's start an external disclosure or out-of-body application. This body is the institution of the Public Attorney's Office of the Attorney General, of course I belong to those who think that this office is the right place to report irregularities, I think that this office in its long-standing work under various leaders has proved that in the Republic of Croatia it can fight and measuredly point to irregularities in various sectors of society, from the prison system, from police treatment to migrants, etc., so I think that the same thing can be done in case of applicants of irregularities. However, if we want this system to work, if we want this system to work then, as in all other spheres of life, material resources should be provided for it. Floscula is co-workers and colleagues, despite what the Prime Minister is saying today that they have made a huge effort in the fight against the floscule, it has felt that the funds are not necessary and that you do not have, that you do not have paper, a document on which to determine the amount of funds and for what they are needed. The esteemed Ms. Pugid's Ombudsman has presented to us representatives of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament a document from which it is clearly visible what it needs and how much funds. I got it myself, got it from other colleagues sitting on the Constitution Committee. It is clear from this document that with £200,000 intended exclusively for public information in 2019, 2020 and 2021 you cannot do anything but maybe print a flyer. Dear colleagues and colleagues, do you really think that the fight against corruption needs to be brought to light on the flyer, I don't think that, I think it's a classic example of throwing dust into the eyes, a classic example of you trying to show that you're doing something, and in reality you're doing everything the opposite of that. Without the means to enforce the law, the law remains a dead letter on paper. And we're in a worse situation than not having a law because we give false hope to people who should rely on the example of this law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we are to pass this law, then let us secure the money for its implementation, briefly and clearly. From the fact that we didn't do it, the external reporting of irregularities as an institute introduced by this law falls into the water. What do we have left? We're left with internal reporting irregularities. Just to be clear, internal reporting irregularities has several aspects. For me, it may even be the least important aspect that applies to a trusted person because some before me have spoken correctly about how much people will be able to trust that person, it is questionable in some employers whether anyone will want to accept the job. However, the issue of a trusted person is not the only issue of protection that is defined as a whistler by this Act. For me personally, and I believe for many who will dare to report irregularities, it is much more important next, and that is the employer's obligation to protect the applicant of irregularities. The obligation of the employer to protect the applicant of irregularities is a legal basis for judicial protection which any applicant of irregularities will take against any employer who, because he dared to find out that he is breaking the law, harassing, harassing and doing anything else. This is a legal basis, in order for this legal basis to be applied, it is necessary to read the provision of this Law and see what is the employer under this Law. And according to this law, the employer is the only natural or legal person who employs over 50 workers. Now, do you know how many in the Republic of Croatia at this time, I apologize, not at this time, are the data for August 2018, how many in August 2018 were active legal or active business entities? According to the data I've been able to find, 158,000, there are many more inactive, but 158,000 active business entities. And do you know how many of these active business entities in the Republic employ more than 50 workers? 2.3%. 97.7% of business entities in the Republic of Croatia will not be obliged to apply this Act by definition which you have given, respected by ruling 97.7%. A foreign office that should be used to report irregularities for these 97.7% did not provide funds. In 97.7% of business entities in the Republic of Croatia, employees will not be entitled to protection if they report irregularities under this Act. What's that? Dead letter on paper. But it goes one step further. I could even accept arguments to make it too much of a burden, but then respected colleagues and colleagues define what an employer who has over 50 employees must do and define what every employer must do, you have not done. But let's move on one step, and watch out for one absurd thing that made me bring the amendment to this law. The employer under this Act must directly employ 50 employees, this Law does not take into account the reality that is quite present in practice, and it is defined by our laws, specifically, the Law on Commercial Society, that many employers are basically related companies, where even a certain society in the system of competition and not even a single company in the system of concerts, there are no 50 employees and then a concert that perhaps employs several hundred people, has no obligation at all to apply the provisions of this Law relating to the employer. But watch out for even greater absurdity. In the amendment, I cited as an example a specific business entity, of course, not prejudged that there are irregularities in that business entity. But I listed it because it's an eclectic example of a poorly written law in a particular case. Adris group d.d. who is a roof trading company for the Adris concert, employs 27 workers even though the whole concert has 5398 employees. Adris group d.d. With 27 employees according to what this Law is written, there is no obligation to implement the Law. Now I'm going to ask you this, what do you think more knowledge about potential irregularities has a maid or a maid who works, for example, in Maistra, as a group member or perhaps more knowledge has a person who works in the management of society who comes in daily contact with financial documents at the level of the entire society? So who's gonna be able to report any irregularities sooner? So who needs more protection? Of course, whoever comes into contact with a much larger set of data, I do not prejudge, of course, that a maid or maid might not be able to come into such a situation, but it is vital that the applicants of irregularities are in a circle of those people who are mostly in contact with the financial documents of one employer because the financial documents mostly contain traces of money laundering, malversion, the withdrawal of money, which we do not protect. One more example, Oily. Oil oil d.d. as a roof company, the group does not have over 50 employees and one who from Uljanik d.d. published information, under this Act, would not receive protection. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP advocates club absolutely supports the intensification of this law. The SDP representative club believes this is necessary, but we also cannot accept half-determination that does not provide protection for employees in 97.7% of business entities in the Republic of Croatia. Until you correct these shortcomings that we have pointed to, we cannot support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126804	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State Salapic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126805	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. I called the Justice Department for two things. First, we cannot accept the fact that we call such a serious topic a dead letter on paper, and here, for the first time, the legislator, in this way, regulates this extremely important issue and a sensitive issue for the Croatian public. Secondly, you misstated 97.7% of all these companies, so 97.7% includes both micro and small and medium, and thus large. So that the internal line of protection applies to medium and large enterprises, and externally to micro and small, so that everyone has the right to protection only refers to how you interpret it. You read it wrong, so 97.7% of companies do, and that applies to micro, small, medium, and thus large. Also, to say that by proposed law, we have allowed anyone to benefit from the possibilities of this law is also not true. So the amendment you submitted, we'll explain when the time comes to clarify the amendments, because I doubt you had the wrong intention. Maybe it would be better if we discussed it better, because I'm not sure you don't know the matter as a lawyer. It would be crazy if the bill promoter, 97.7% of possible actors, therefore, the address of this law, made it impossible to apply this law. So we find that inconclusive. That's why I had to answer it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126806	Thank you. We do. Did you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a replica? Well, then you've got it all wrong, then in order. First respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, this law defines internal and external reporting of irregularities. When you define internal reporting irregularities, there you listed a provision, an article, which is called the employer's obligation. In the employer’s obligations, you have only stated what the article, pursuant to Article 3(4), applies to the employer within the meaning of this law, not to each employer. For every act we bring, we define concepts within the meaning of that law. In the sense of this law, the employer is the only natural or legal person who employs more than 50 people. They are subject to the rules laid down by this law, 97.7% of business entities in HR, business entities, therefore employers of the rules and obligations arising from this law do not apply, do not apply because they are not employers within the meaning of this law. You say you've secured external reporting irregularities, yes, but you're not money for his injury. Thank you. Excuse me... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126808	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126809	Thank you very much, Vice President. I repeat, Your Honor, the internal application refers to companies of 50 employees and further, and externally through the provision of this law,... The attorney general's office refers to everyone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, 200 thousand kunas have been repeated for public promotion, public awareness, about the intention of intensities of this law. And also, when you mentioned it, we suggested to the attorney general that he try to redistribute with 45 highly employed people, redistribute his job. And this is your projection of the total resources of the attorney general, from 2006 from 6 million and 900 to 2017, we have 11.5 million kuna in the budget of the attorney general. Now we're by heart hiring new people, not knowing the scope of this law, would be intruding in the pockets of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If there is a need for new employment and new funds, we will give them. I think this plate says everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126810	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126811	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, there is a way to break a spear around absolute support in this law, to things that you explain that it is in the European directive as well. So, the employer and the number of 50. However, the European directive certainly wouldn't mind, if we improved those terms, so that we reduce that number to 20, maybe we'd be angry to put a number of 100. Therefore, I do not see why you would not once again consider this multi-page remark and thus ensure that this law gets absolute consensus in creating a prerequisite, that more citizens in good faith report corruption. Because I will remind you, we cannot compare with the EU in this respect, because in Croatia, only 4% of citizens are willing to report corruption, which is far below the EU average.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126812	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126813	Thank you, Vice-President, Your Honor, Jovanovic, the European Directive is currently in discussion and the process of adoption. And as far as I've been informed, it is thought that this lower limit of the employer should be 250 employees, Croatia predicts 50. Likewise, when we are all opening up topics, we have already gone from a European directive that will come into force, in 2021, to such an important law. So Europe is thinking about 250 and we're talking about 50 here. I think the way and intention of this law is quite right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126814	And the last replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126815	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I say, I wanted to be sure to refer to the European directive, because the clearer the intensity, why it became a limit of 50, and 10 million euros, respectively. Just because it's them, a dangerous situation of corruption is going to happen in employers, who employ more than 50 people, who are big, who have resources, who have resources. It's hardly that some small micro entrepreneur is going to be in a situation, I mean it can happen, but the chances are, that he's jeopardizing, that he poses such a danger to the public interest, that he should report, etc. However, one thing, purely legal, is that there are certain provisions concerning the employer, which are not, and which are not only about internal application. And in that sense, when you define an employer right at the beginning, then it can be interpreted that even those provisions don't apply to employers, these below 50 people. Well, maybe there's just a little bit of legal technicality that should be seen to be precise. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126816	Now we're going to move on to the next Club of Representatives, and that's the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative, Željko Lenart, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126817	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. After 27 years of privatization, of the robbery of this country, of the acquisition of what is not of the people who have adopted it, we finally pass the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity or so on. The whistle. Who are the people who report irregularities? Honest people who point to the Croatian people's robbery, wealth based on the influence of political functions, the theft of the Croatian budget, sold-out national assets, the material benefits of influential individuals. We daily witness the sale of Croatian property, even today, after 27 years of independence of the Croatian state. A lot of jobs are gone because of this kind of work, so when we only remember INA, Telekom, Sisak Ironworks, agricultural combinations, the processing industry, the Sisak Refinery, and not to list everything that was done in the '90s, how much healthy companies were destroyed, distributed and how much we lost because of it. The last suspicious thing going on in Croatia is Agrokor. The Lex Agrokor Act, which was made only for Agrokor and we can see that it cannot be applied to shipyards, the Borg group and advisers who have drawn over half a billion kunas from Agrokor, and it is obvious that it is due to the departure of the former minister of the Mrs. Dalic and what Mr. Plenkovic was saying was that HDZ is behind everything. The purchase of an F-16 plane that may have been so fortunately and failed, perhaps we can thank the United States for preventing this acquisition of the plane because the United States estimated that these planes were worth $135 million, and we were supposed to pay them over $500 million. Whether or not there is any intention, I cannot prove it, unfortunately, for such amounts and for such transactions certainly will not exist whistlers because not for them to run out of work, to be humiliated in this society, they would probably have lost their heads if they had caught themselves reporting irregularities on such things. And now that you're watching, those who used to watch Star Trek, there was a people in those Star Treks called the Borg, who had collective consciousness, and it slowly associates me with what's happening in the Republic of Croatia today. Here, recently I read, in fact this morning, in the paper of our prime minister's plan on the new electoral law, on the bonus mandates that should be given to those who have victory and the creation of absolute power. It seems that a new Borg people are being created in Croatia, that it will only be a member of that people who has a HDZ card, and the rest of us will probably have to pack bags and go somewhere else where normal people live. Croatia is falling on a scale of fighting corruption. The question is, can it get any worse? Yeah, well, according to what we just saw and talked about, that's fine. According to the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index for 2018, the Republic of Croatia fell from 51 points to 48. So we're sinking into even deeper corruption than she's ever been before. There might not even be this law today if the Council of Europe's recommendation hadn't come. In 2005, Croatia also ratified the UN Convention against Corruption, but nothing behind it happened on this issue, all functioning according to the idea of those who still did not want such a law to exist. But if the courts, more specifically the judges, the cancer of the wounds of that judiciary, what law, whether the best in the world, can encourage anyone to be a whistler? I ask you this in Croatia, who will be brave today to be a whistler? The legislator argues that whistlers will be encouraged to report corruption, illegality and other irregularities in society. I'm not sure what kind of political situation is in the Republic of Croatia, how it works and what the people see, and don't think they don't see it, I don't think anyone wants to be like some whistlers who unfortunately have fallen sky on their heads. Let's think of Mrs. McNally. Zrinka Paladino, who mentioned the terrace on Flower Square and building skyscrapers near Maksimirski Park, as it ended. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesne Balenovic, who was a whistler in INA, as she passed in her life, and here, time has shown that the INA has ended, that it will no longer be Croatian, but has not been for a long time. The one who steals and cheats, lies and cuts the state, nothing happens, and the whistle goes down on his head and just gets left to himself. By functioning such a judiciary, no one believes that it will simply be protected for what he has pointed out, and pointed out in the best way to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia. It's easy for society to say something, but there are courts until we solve the court process, until we resolve our faith in the judiciary, until we resolve our faith in this state apparatus, in a system that has failed, of course, that no one will have the courage to be a whistler anymore. However, I hope that in future times there will be brave people who will report irregularities, robbery of workers, peasants, the entire Croatian people, but I also hope that these applications will bear fruit. Today we are witnessing large, alleged court proceedings in Croatia, Mr Sanader, Nadan Vidosevic and others who have been tried for so long that no one believes that judgments will be passed in such cases at all. And that's why people leave Croatia, which is why young people leave the country, and they've already concluded that they don't want to be part of this people of the Borg, but that they want to think for themselves, even in a foreign country. The wrong values are important to us, but whoever whistles, he is seen as a snitch, and whoever lies and steals as someone who is powerful. I don't have a joke today, but I have a saying and this proverb says, "Who's lying and stealing and who's stealing and having it?" and who unfortunately respects it in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126818	We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first to come forward is the Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126819	Thank you very much Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, a little less than a year ago the Living Wall brought into this high house its proposal for a bill of whistles that was completely rejected under this excuse that the ruling majority, namely HDZ and partners, are doing their own law of the same name, and he is here today for adoption. However, as could have been expected between the two laws, there are great differences, he would have dared to say a deep sink that unfortunately goes to harm first of all the whistlers themselves. According to the ministry's representatives, they wrote a law on something that they don't really know much about because they didn't consult whistles at all. So they consulted as far as they could until the D.A. arrived, the attorney general, and the whistles themselves weren't consulted. Perhaps if they had listened to their stories and even suggestions, the advice might have been much better quality, but that is what is missed. Also, there is one big downside in this bill and it is that for all those who have reported irregularities until today, i.e. by 1 July of this year when the law will apply there is no compensation, there is no rehabilitation. The legislator stands out that laws cannot be applied retroactively, which is not true, because that laws cannot be retroactively applied then political prisoners in the former state would never get any compensation because they are all convicted legally, but unfairly and necessary injustices are sometimes corrected even when they are several decades old. In the end, if there were no retroactiveness, Croatian defenders could not even exercise their rights since 10 years ago or not ago it was said that the status of Croatian defenders could no longer be acquired, and now, according to the new one, it can still be acquired and rights can be exercised. The whistles or applicants of irregularities also defended Croatia as their own political dissidents or Croatian defenders. They were creating this society, they were building democracy and defending institutions most of all, they and they suffered a terrible persecution, human persecution, physical and verbal, judicial, material and each other, and we are now rejecting them by hiding behind some legal leap, and all of this just because further intimidated applicants of irregularities, to buy time, to make this law work as a mere form, and not as content. The whistles are very important, crucial because in Croatia, Mr. Salapic also knows very well his mentor Mr. Bosnjakovic, more than 30% of the court disputes are failing because there are no witnesses or witnesses but these witnesses do not want to testify or even when they testify to a change in the statement or fully withdraw it. We know according to official statistics, 10 to 30% of tax revenues disappears in so-called a grey economy and among other things because no one dares to report it. If you're talking to craftsmen, talk to anyone who has a company. He'll tell you openly in your face that he's 30 to 40% of the bill doesn't issue, he doesn't betray because he's so much more competitive on the market. People will call him and he won't call the one who's charging him with VAT. And nobody reports it either, you lose a lot of money. You have as many examples as you want. Let's say we got in the Living Wall a report that a large trade chain gives people wages in the form of separate lives, people live in Zagreb, work in Zagreb but get a separate life. They report it to us, but exclusively anonymously, they don't dare say it publicly because they know they'll be subject to sanctions. Another trade chain in Slavonia, Mr. Salapic, paid 7,500 rewards to his workers so that you would have to pay that same cash back to your boss who paid them. We have such reports but we cannot persuade people to say it publicly because they are afraid, because they will get fired, be isolated, Stigmatized, persecuted, sued, and even beaten, they will receive threats not only from them but also from their families, etc. The same cases you have in the police, I don't know, a Vukovar man works in Istria, for years the state pays him tens and tens of thousands of kuna travel expenses, why is that so, you don't know but the same people are unhappy, the state is damaged, and the public doesn't know anything about it. What about the case of Officer Dina Molnar? How much damage did the case cause in the Croatian public? I'm running a subcommittee, we've come to some conclusions, sent to the DORH and the Minister, etc., if any of it will be, the only thing that came to me, and ordered me to keep quiet about it, to sign a statement. What about the case of Officer Ante Podnar? What about the case of Officer Anna Maria Braim, who is a perfectly healthy, highly intelligent person, according to a medical report locked up in a mental institution and there she was given some pills that paralysed her in the next 3.4 months. In order to get her fired, or to be retired, her children were taken away, and today they are scrambling her with these skills, etc. You gave up these people. You are essentially protecting those who have persecuted them, not those who have persecuted them, and not those who have actually suffered damage. And that's why we can say in the Living Wall that here they are, in part and under our pressure, partly according to the orders of European bureaucrats, some law is written, maybe this law will be improved in the future, maybe this law will be upgraded, but in any case it remains a bitter taste, I repeat the taste once again, buying time where this current government is important that no irregularities are reported in their term, if irregularities are not reported, if irregularities are reported, let it be in 5, 10 or 15 years, but not now. It is important that we protect ourselves, that we can continue our practice just as we have so far, that competitions can be carried out as they were, means that only similar party personnel can be employed as in the Croatian forests, such as in HZ, as in HEP and many other companies, that corrupt actions are performed without anyone's responsibility. Therefore, we in the Living Wall will support this law solely because of its name as a snail step in the direction in which we should go but we express deep dissatisfaction with its content and in this sense we will propose our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126820	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126821	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone that whistles are an easy target and why they are an easy target, because the system is created as a pyramid of power and is created as a pyramid of power in which people at lower levels cover people at higher levels and vice versa. I'd dare say it like this. Every fish smells like a head or a people's coloquial, fish smell like a head, not a tail. Now, why would you say that? Because corruption at lower levels wouldn't be possible if at the top of a fair team, however, if at the top of our country a fair team, that's what every voter needs to ask. I personally don't think so. And all the dishonesty that people notice at all levels of power, by my judgment, is the result. And the very idea that HDZ would protect whistles or that syntagma that HDZ started fighting corruption, that was Karamark's wetland, that's all unserious, i.e. A lot of people don't mean that. Maybe someone's taking it seriously, but I have to tell you that the whistlers who contacted us, the whistles we worked with, they complained about the law in a row, for a number of reasons. The first reason is that its application has not started since 2020. Who lives, who dies by 2020. The second thing, the law does not apply retrogradely, so it does not apply the whistle case in the past. And what exactly is going on? What happens is that HDZ faked it to protect whistles, like we're bringing the whistle protection bill, and that's after the Living Wall handed it over and after they turned it down. And it brings now as some law of its own, which will help to God, but in future times, perhaps some future people, and the question is how successfully it will help them. However, I would like to look at one thing that shows the lack of honesty of the current government, from the assumption that HDZ is a fair party, let's assume that HDZ is a party with good intentions. Let's start with the assumption that HDZ has the best intentions. Then why did the ruling majority reject our law on the investigation of the origin of the property and the confiscation of illegally acquired property, why ladies and gentlemen? Why does this law bother you in HDZ? You know the formal explanation we received when, when Plenkovic refused that law, Plenkovic said in terms of, like, already existing legislation is good enough, perhaps according to him. But does the public think that there are people, in our country, where there is a disproportionateness between income, official and property, the public thinks yes. The public thinks that this problem is not being solved. However, Plenkovic considers no, everything is fine, everything is great, the existing laws are good. Who are they good for? They're good probably, by my judgment for him. And for those who have suspiciously acquired property, they are great for them, and what about the people who have been robbed, which is with the people who are whistlers. Like in some future time, we'll help them. This law, in fact, is a slap in the eye of whistles and I'll tell you why, because the vast majority of whistles that complained about irregularities was like a pattern of irregularities, then, the party that protected these irregularities, was foretold by HDZ. And now the HDZ that hasn't been on the wallpaper so many times, the HDZ party being tried for withdrawing money from state-owned companies. You have a case, so I read, that Branko Bacic handed some money to the DORH from the black funds, that's what I read, that's the man sitting there in the bench. I read it, maybe it's not true, here I call DORH, publicly to deny it, if it's not true. But right now, from HDZ, we're coming up with this big whistle-protection thing. And I'd just like to read this right here, I'll write it on Google, Branko Bačić, the black fund, here, so it doesn't turn out, if I did, here's a statement. The party's chief secretary in power, Branko Bacic, said his hands were absolutely clean and that the clean business of HDZ was a complete fiction, that I destroyed or demanded that the documentation be destroyed in the party. By the way, the moment I arrived at the secretary-general's post and found out that there were certain cash payments from Mrs. Crescent. Pavosevic, I immediately requested documentation and asked it to stop cash transactions. He asked whether a statement on cash transactions recognised the existence of a black fund, Bacic said, at the time I found out about cash payments, that cash payments were led by the assistant finance secretary and chief treasurer of the party. At that moment, until we determined all the circumstances and I believed that this part of the cash payment was valid and legal in the party's business. I have determined that this is part of an asset that has not been passed over to the client's account, etc. etc. Look at this interesting claim that no one in the investigation has asked him anything about it, etc. etc. And here, dear ladies and gentlemen, dear ladies and gentlemen, ask yourself, can the party in which here is, says cashier Pavosevic, the evidence we destroyed, Bačić, Barisic and I, that's what she's saying. Before destroying the notebook, he ordered that all payments be stopped, as ordered by the new HDZ chief, Jadranka Kosor. Former HDZ treasurer Branko Pavosevic, USKOK, told that Bačića, as soon as he became the chief secretary of HDZ, had become acquainted with the details of the black fund, and that he had requested within a month of taking office to bring a notebook with the records of payments and payments, and that the notary was destroyed in her presence of the party's cashiers and customs chief Mladen Barisic. Well, imagine, that's what Mrs. Devereaux says. Branka Pavoshevic, that's not what I'm saying. Dear ladies and gentlemen, those are serious charges. And I read somewhere that Bacic after that money was left behind from the black fund, I think it was a few hundred thousand euros, and maybe two million kunas I don't know exactly, that he handed it over to the DORH, maybe memory serves me wrong. I am now, looking for this text and I can't find it, maybe it's not true, but the fact is, the fact is that HDZ is wet I'll say the term wetted in such situations with money that it's extremely hypocritical of them to be portrayed as some whistlefighters or to God's fighters who started fighting corruption, and the testimony from Sanader's trial, the evidence that donations have been received that haven't been registered, the fact that this trial is being delayed in the long run, that it's likely that it's going to go into obsolescence, the fact that the state's audit all this time doesn't question the honesty of HDZ finances or whether the state of the paper is equally real, whether it's already giving an orderly report for HDZ, tells you by my court and the work, I would dare say, and the politicization of state audits. And let's say, the state review is suspiciously 3.900,00 kn fuel costs, and millions, black bags, and what else, people write about it, what the DORH charges, that state audit, as far as I understand it, is not disputed. And that's one big, big shame in my court. I personally don't want to believe that Branko Bacic wore any black bags to DORH, but I'm saying, I thought I read something like that, God forbid it wasn't true, here, I'll still check to report it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126822	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126823	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Pernar, so, decisions on whether someone did or did something or not in terms of a crime are made by a judicial verdict, but if you already like to quote and transmit what the media is doing, then I, for example, would transfer something from the morning list on 18.9.2016, so I quote: "I saw by chance what I shouldn't have seen. As the yellow envelopes arrive under the cover of the night in the headquarters of the Living Wall with the money of donors that are not on the official list." Well, I'm saying, I'm also hoping and I believe that's not true, but since we're talking about what the media is writing, it's supposed to indicate what's wrong with me when someone quotes the media when it suits him, and when he doesn't need it, then he calls himself to the press lynch, etc., so clear to know. And as for the fact that this law doesn't help applicants, I think you have an art. 32 where there are great violation provisions that protect themselves, which punish employers who harm applicants, so I think the law should be read, and then debated about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126824	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126825	Here, I will read from the media: “But as soon as Sanader turned his back, Bacic drew close to his octrossed heir, Jadranka Kosor, and he got into big problems with her a few months later. For months, Bačić and Kosorica hid 2 million and 300,000,00 kn and 300,000,00 EUR of the black fund left to them by former prime minister and president of HDZ Ivo Sanader. And then he says this: "Kosor and Bačić" Here he says: "until then HDZ leader realized that the devil had taken the joke, and that the DORH could knock. After a few months, they decided to hand over the dowry to Mladen Bajic." Today Bajic could file accounts for everything. So when we're talking about the HDZ black fund, it's about real money, the money that someone taught the DORH, and there's the powerlessness. the judgment, etc., etc. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126826	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126827	Thank you, Mr. President. Vice President HS. Mr Pernar, according to the 2018 Corruption Perception Index, the Republic of Croatia scored 48 points, significantly lower than the average of Western Europe and the EU. The Croatian public has a very negative perception towards the Croatian judiciary, people believe that the Croatian judiciary is extremely corrupt and the question arises why there is a huge discrepancy. the disproportionateness between the procedural persons in the court that is instigating, means the State Judiciary Council and such perceptions in the Croatian public? Please comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126828	Thank you. Here's a response from the esteemed representative Pernar. I'm asking you, we've now gone very far from the subject, so I suggest we narrow down to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126829	In a way, in a way, we sort of took the esteemed chairman away from the topic. But the topic is current, can HDZ party accused of such things, can it fight corruption and fight to protect whistles? From what I see, from what I see, somebody explain to me if it wasn't for that. if DORH is committed to 2 million kuna and EUR 300,000,00, if it is committed, the media write about it, what is this money? Is that the money that the state gave through the regular financing of political parties, or is that the money that came past the bill? And you know what else you HDZs defend, so that's the craziest thing I've ever seen, so it says the state audit report for that year was positive. So what does that say about state audit? What does that say about their work, ladies and gentlemen? That, unfortunately, is the question. It doesn't set. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126830	The next replica of the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126831	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. Here, recently there was a whistler, a serious man, 50 years old, working on waste management and saying that a party in Slavonia asked him to worry about waste in Osijek-Baranja County several million kuna bribes to get that job, so when he said, look, I never gave a bribe in my life, then they said that so can't do business in the Republic of Croatia, I don't know where you learned to work, but in the Republic can't work that way. And so they had to give up their jobs, and this job was assigned to another company, so I wonder if this law would encourage the person who told me that the name and last name of the case or if they would continue to say it anonymously to me in private conversations of which, in the end, there is no use at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126832	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126833	Here, Mr. Bunjac, I sincerely doubt it, but I will read to you the following title: "In the safe of Mladen Bajic's chief state attorney lies evidence that HDZ had a black fund, it is EUR 2,300,000 and EUR 300,000, so that money is Mladen Barisic's chief treasurer of HDZ and the former director of the Customs Administration after having been removed from all the party functions from the house brought to Branko Bačić's new secretary of HDZ, money that was not recorded in any of the Bačić's foreign books still stored in the party safe. However, when the HDZ ring began to be tightened around Mladen Barisic, it was decided to surrender the money to the state's attorney." Here I ask if Mr. Bacic has given any money to the DORH, if that money is to be paid, if it is the money from the black funds, does the HDZ finally intend to admit the guilt in the Fimi Media case and pay back the money who is accused of being taken from state-owned enterprises [[Intruder: Thank you.]] or intends to keep [[Thank you very much.]] Did he do it for himself? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126834	The next individual debate is the respected representative Zeljka Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126835	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, corruption is certainly a major problem, the problem of every society it destroys the fundamental values of every society, the problem of corruption that happens in four eyes and which is hard to prove, and therefore the possibility of someone in good faith reporting corruption and thus contributing to its disclosure has great significance. In the beginning, the problem with us in Croatia is that many research shows that citizens do not trust the judiciary, do not trust the bodies of public authorities and therefore are not ready to report corruption. I have already mentioned it several times today and I will point out once again that a major survey involving 41 countries has shown that in Croatia only 4% of citizens are willing to report corruption and 96 is not. In this study, it is interesting that Croatia was ranked first to retain information which was not reported due to internal pressure, therefore because of fear, as many as 35% of respondents in Croatia said that ours were in this situation, which is significantly higher than the average of all respondents in the 40 countries at 14%. As for factors affecting the prevention of fraud, bribery and corruption within the organisation in which the most respondents in Croatia work, the fear of personal security has led 67%, which is more than the average of all respondents 46%, in this category below Croatia are only Hungary with 69% and Nigeria with 68%, which is certainly not the society in which we would like to be in this case. In addition, only 6% of respondents in Croatia said they were familiar with the existence of a system for reporting irregularities, which is significantly below the average of all countries who were 21%. This study concludes that these data show that organisations are not yet investing enough in the development of a system for reporting irregularities, that employees are not aware of which systems they use or feel pressure within the organisation not to report such information, which indicates a lack of commitment by higher management. In addition to investing in system reporting irregularities, the organisation should also invest in educational programmes to raise awareness about their use. Moreover, senior management should be clearly and ambiguously encouraged and supported by employees to report irregularities in business. Here are the recommendations from which we can actually see that certain solutions are also contained in this legislative proposal that we have received, but that just one unwillingness to compromise, so to speak, create and doubt whether the law will adopt what everyone would like, which is to increase the number of citizens who report corruption in good faith. Thus, this figure of 50 employees in the definition of employer who is stubbornly taken as a borderline for internal registration, as well as that amount of 200,000 kuna, shows that we can rightly talk about a certain doubt to what extent this law will bring an increase in the number of citizens who are willing to report corruption. At this week we had two laws that are very important for the fight against corruption, the Law on the financing of election promotion, today this law, the Law on whistles that should fix the situation in Croatia which unfortunately is not good. We heard on several occasions that since 2015 when we had 51 points on the perception and corruption index every year we have an increasingly poor score, two years in a row of 49 and this year in 2018, respectively. 48. I am afraid that everything that has happened in this assembly in the run and change of party uniforms that are truly immodest because the voters are being deceived, because they are changing party uniforms and giving support to someone for whom you have not received a mandate from the citizens, will further increase the suspicion and mistrust of the citizens in the integrity and bodies of the public authorities, and thus also in what is crucial, so that someone would report suspicion or criminality in order to be a whistler he must first of all be certain that he will not suffer the consequences for it and must be sure that his act will bring a judicial or acquittal verdict, but that he will have meaning that act. Otherwise, I fear that all this will be, unfortunately, a dead letter on paper because we all agree that Croatia has a good strategy to combat corruption, that it has a good action plan to combat corruption, that it has more and less correct laws, but this is not seen in everyday practice because citizens lose confidence in public authorities, they do not trust the judiciary, and these are preconditions to increase the number of citizens who report corruption in good faith. Surely Croatia's fight against corruption is one of the priorities for the future of Croatia for the simple reason that young people leaving Croatia in polls that you can also see that corruption of Croatian society is one of the main reasons why they don't see the future in Croatia, and I'm afraid that from that petty corruption through high corruption or political corruption, as we call it in Croatia, is a small step towards systemic corruption, and in systemic corruption, citizens no longer see the sense of fighting corruption, which means they don't even see the sense of reporting corruption, or, that is, a skeptical attitude prevailing, which I hope we won't come to, and that's that it's unforgiving, only one who has not been offered a very high price. Unfortunately, this attitude is growing in Croatia, but hopefully, I am still optimistic that it will not be prevailing. Therefore, for the future of Croatia, in addition to legal solutions, it is certainly necessary that from the lowest grades of primary school, through education for civil society and democracy enter future adults, how important it is to fight corruption and, of course, effective justice, and somewhere in one step towards that goal, it is certainly also this law, which is not bad and not great to be determined, that it lacks quite a bit. So I call for a review of the amendments, which he has submitted, among other things, to the SDP, and we may finally get a text that will be accepted by the absolute majority in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126836	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126837	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr Jovanovic, in the context of your debate, would like to read to you the statement by Edwin Sutherland of the United States, who first defined mafia political symbiosis in 1939, said it was a crime of white collars, meaning a higher class, which wore white collars, a way of dressing, which separated them from the ordinary population and were untouchable. Their crime is almost invisible and covers areas of serious crime, such as abuses of authorities, the acquisition of favourable loans to themselves and their families, bribery of the judiciary and other institutions, filing false accounts of companies, etc. I don't have time to keep reading this to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126838	The response of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126839	Thank you very much. So we can just trace what you said, I can repeat, that we're essentially different by definition today 3 types of corruption, the first is this petty, pocket corruption, after that, so on. ... High corruption, which in Croatia has been quite clumsyly translated as political corruption, which turns out that corruption is only present among politicians and ultimately systemic corruption, when the government of the general abbey and when no one in society sees any more sense of fighting corruption, however, in such a situation, honest citizens agree to be corrupt to survive in such a corrupt society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is something we must not allow, so the legal solutions that come out of this assembly must contribute to the fight against all three types of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126840	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126841	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Jovanovic, you spoke where Croatia is on the corruption scale, and I will now read something that I read online, on net.hr, says a stranger about Croatia and says this, I am really surprised by the title, says Croatia declared the world's dumbest country. They hate anyone who is different, who is not Croat, Catholic, conservative, heterosexual, because they are unable to solve real problems themselves such as corruption and nepotism. These problems are blamed by those who are different, claiming that they hate Croatia. He wrote a commentator, interpreting why Croatia thinks Croatia is stupid. I disagree and believe that Croatia is not the dumbest country in the world, nor do I think Croats are stupid, I think there are many smart people, however, they obviously did not get a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126842	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126843	My colleague Prelec, in the fight against corruption, has been actively participating since his first entry into the Parliament in 2007, and until today I could follow the different stages in this fight, against corruption in Croatia, which had an upcoming downward trend. So at the time of the fight against corruption, it was up to Croatia to join the EU, then there was an absolute positive atmosphere and everyone was trying to show political will to oppose corruption. However, after we entered and then these large court proceedings, against Sanader, FIMI Media, were moving, but after we entered the EU, something similar happened in Romania, Bulgaria, where this enthusiasm fell. And today we are at such a time, where there is a general resignation, and these nasty changes in party uniforms only contributes to that, therefore, I fear that this is the reason and general apathy, which exists among the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126844	Thank you for the next debate, they will be those respected advocates of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126845	Thank you very much, Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, here, I would say something about this bill, I think it's really good and commendable that, actually, before the deadline that we should pass this law, we actually have a draft law in the debate, and I think the bill is good. He's actually setting up a system of reporting at 2 levels, and in this way, I think, actually at 3 levels, in this way, I think we're really allowing the applicants of irregularities, that if they're not in a situation to report to the internal system, they're doing it through a public defender as an external system or a public one. What's certainly good, which is that this law, guarantees indeed to every applicant of irregularities, to be protected, in the event of a report, and I think it's primarily good that we will have this matter in one place in the future in one law. We've actually been prescribed, in fact, that there's a report of irregularities, that the applicants are being protected from the employer, but I think it's benefit in any case, that in the future we'll have it in one place. What I would say today and what has not been said and which would be partly agreed with the debate of my colleague, Grbin, I think, in the replica of my colleague Sokol, is that, in fact, it should be a little better defined by the employer, given that some provisions within the bill itself are generally applied to the employer and not only to employers who employ at least 50 persons and who are then obliged to establish an internal disclosure system, so I will propose another amendment in my amendment, and this applies to the following. In this proposal, in fact, this limit of 50 employees refers only to those employers, natural and legal persons who are actually employed in the private sector and not to public authorities, public authorities. Now that we see the definition of who all the bodies of public authorities are, then we see that there are local and regional self-government units and all the companies that they are the founders of or are in their majority ownership. So now that we see our situation on the ground, we see that we have units of local self-government in which we have 10 employees, we see that in small towns small companies owned by them, small utility companies, for example, that employ and even less than 10 people. And I believe that, in any case, this limit of 50 employees would be justified and, for the establishment of an internal disclosure system, apply to the public authorities, and for this very reason, not to impose on them, especially so small public authorities that have a really minimal number of employees and who are now actually burdened by their employees, who are a minimum number, by many powers they already have, that we do not impose this new burden on them in the future. I think that in this way the applicants of irregularities in such environments would in no way be damaged because they are left with this other system, another level, and that is to report irregularities through an external notifier, and that is the public defender and what I want to point out, I don't think we would actually put such a proposal as is now, the public authorities should put it in a more unfavourable position than others because I don't think they deserve it because we haven't even had a situation so far that we can determine that there are more irregularities in public authorities than in other systems, of course, that it would be an ideal situation for us to report irregularities in this way in all public authorities, but I think that we must first of all reach the public authorities's own system, so that we have a system set up that there is sufficient number of employees that can adequately carry out all of what the law requires them to do. I don't think this proposal is contrary to what the European Commission's recommendations are either, so here, in this sense, my amendment will go, so I ask the Proposer to consider it. Once again, I stress that in any case, I believe that the bill will contribute to the prevention of corruption and, in any case, it will enable all of our fellow citizens to be active entities in society who will be able to point out such irregularities without having any consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126846	Thank you, we have a replica of the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126847	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Jelkovac, you said that this bill is good and that it will help fight corruption, in part I can agree with you. Most of this law is good, but it will not do anything, nor will it help fight corruption because you have not provided sufficient financial resources for it. The £200,000 mentioned here is embarrassing, so the attorney general should form, form a whole new department, and you have not provided money for it, and I am not surprised at HDZ at all, so it is a once again falsely declarative display of the fight against corruption and truly in nature without financial support. So without money to fight it we can't and it will be, this law will be a dead letter on paper and will not contribute to anything unless truly financially supported and I appeal here once again to you, so secure the funds that will be sufficient to implement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126848	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126849	Thank you very much. As the promoter himself has already said, so the law goes into effect only in the second half of the year, we will only see after the law has entered into force that will show all needs by the end of this year. This year's budget provides those funds that have been estimated to need to be covered by the law by the end of this year. As far as everything else is concerned, I would also like to say that I understand the efforts of the attorney general, but she has in her system a certain number of people who, at this point, believe that they are dealing with certain reports of irregularities, and I don't think that after the law goes into effect, there will be a huge number of applications, so much difference in the current situation that people should hire a much larger number if in the future, we will have new budgets, we will have the funds, if necessary and in this year so there is a budget rebalance, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126850	Thank you very much. Now the Honorable Representative Ivan Pernar will speak finally on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126851	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply sorry that this Law on the Protection of Irregularity will not apply to whistles, or to people who have pointed out irregularities in HDZ because there is no retrograde application. Listen to the words, Bacic said he remembered a lot of things, he says, in October 2010, I handed USKOK 2 million kn and 300 thousand euros. I did so after Jadranka Kosor informed the chief state attorney, that HDZ had deposited that money in the party register in January 2010, former HDZ Secretary-General Branko Bacic said in the continuing trial of Ivo Sanader in the FIMI Media case. The money was deposited in the party register by former treasurer Mladen Barisic, who, at the beginning of the trial, admitted the charges that money drawn from state institutions and companies through the FIMI Media marketing agency was filling the HDZ's black fund. Barisic gave the money to Marica Glavas who placed it in the register. Barisic told us that he was the creator who gave the donors and that's how we treated him, said Bacic. But when it began writing in the media about Barisic's FIMI Media affair, Jadranka Kosor reported on the cash deposited in the register, chief state attorney Mladen Bajic and brought the DORH 2m euros and 300,000 euros. Here, I'm asking you now, your colleague here, Mr. Bacic, admits, your boss admits to carrying the money in the DORH, why was he wearing it if it was legal money? On the other hand, if, by any chance, HDZ, at that time admitted that it was a black fund and if he admitted HDZ at that time that, or Bacic, alone, if he admitted that it was black funds, why now that the court is not guilty, he does not admit guilt. In my court, because those in HDZ who would be willing to tell the truth are not protected. Because the Law on the Protection of whistles does not apply to them here, but only in future times, and what about time from before? Is the law, on purpose, designed in a way that cannot be retrograded, precisely so as not to appear, which member of the HDZ who would say, yes, I know about black funds, that I know about that money, or which employee, because the fact is that you were testified against by an accountant, accountant, or treasurer, etc. And in the end, you might say, sir, that's all she said. And you can say, sir, there was no money, but then what money did Bacic carry in bags in the DORH that's the question he's asking. Because the court, the international arbitration said, look, Jezic said he received 5m euros, but who saw that money? No one saw them, and then the court said, we conclude that Jezič's statement was not convincing, but the statements on HDZ are convincing, precisely because there is money that your colleague Bacic was carrying in the DORH. But what's going on? For procedural reasons, the court ruins the verdict, all witnesses from the HDZ trial no longer remember anything, HDZ no longer admits to guilt, etc. And then you and that party, you tell us here, that you care about the protection of whistles, it is. Sonja Vlah doesn't trust you from the Croatian Post Office, she's the first one who doesn't believe you. And believe me, not many whistlers believe you. And you wonder why. You're wondering if it's possible that HDZ is paying the media to cover up their affairs, wondering if it's possible. And is it possible to attack the Living Wall, because we don't pay the racket to the media, that's what you're asking yourself. Is it possible, that I'm a really big criminal, the way the media shows me, or that it's possible that I might not be paying the racket to the media, so that's actually the reason, and someone might be paying them, hypothetically, to write against me, so they're attacking me. Ladies and gentlemen, if I were you, it would be a shame, but you HDZ gentlemen, for all I've seen so far, you have no shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126852	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Jelkovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126853	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President has been injured. The 238th Rules of Procedure, because a colleague actually disrespected a colleague of Bačić, a fellow representative who is not present here and accuses him of actually a criminal offence, I would like that fellow Pernar, be so brave outside this assembly, and fellow Pernar, you are very credible, and you have drawn out of the Croatian Parliament, as representative of the million kuna, who are through the other party untransparently spent. [[Intruder Reiner: colleague Pernar, do not shout from the scene.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126854	Thank you. Please, I estimate that this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, I beg you, let us stop now at the end of the pseudo-injure of the Rules of Procedure, because I will make warnings if the Rules of Procedure is misused. A colleague, Sasa Djujic, has broken his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126855	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, my colleague Pernar injured this article, making incorrect claims about his colleague Bačić, because Mr. Bačić was essentially a whistler in HDZ because he confessed to what HDZ was doing and said, and it is not true that the whistlers in HDZ were not protected, because Mr. Bačić later became president of the HDZ Representatives' Club, so he is a rare example of the whistlemaker in Croatia, who progressed, after speaking, so Mr. Pernar, do not speak that false information.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126856	Okay. I estimate it's not even a breach of the rules of procedure. Please, let's not abuse that institution, please. Comrade Pernar, come in. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126857	I would like to say, that after a colleague from the SDP pointed out my delusion, I would actually like to apologize to HDZ I would actually like to say that it is true that they reward whistlers and people like Branko Bačić, who carried millions to the DORH from the black fund according to his testimony and indeed here's his example of progress in the party hierarchy saying that the HDZ is really thoughtful and I would dare say even merciful Thank you. [[Intruder:...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126858	I am good at warning you because you have abused the institution of the Rules of Procedure and I am asking you not to do so in the future. No one. Please don't do this. With that I would conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll continue our work on Wednesday, February 6th at 9.30 p.m. The first item will be the final draft law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 566, and the full agenda for the February 6th discussion in HS will be delivered to you on Monday. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 15.25 hours. Thank you very much. Before moving to a statement on the next amendments, we welcome the delegation of the parliament of the Republic of Austria to the diplomatic gallery. ... And now we're going to move on to a statement on amendments, to the Final Proposal for the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, second reading, P.Z. No. 445. [[Applause.]] The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendments have been submitted, the representative of Peđa Grbin, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the representative of Stjepan Čuraj, the representative of Marija Jelkovac, the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, and this will be the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Honored Josip Salapic. First, Amendment 1 to the representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126860	The amendment shall be accepted in part. The amended text reads: the employer is the body of the public authority and a natural or legal person according to the law governing working relations, a natural or legal person with whom the applicant carries out irregularities. An employer who employs at least 50 persons is obliged to establish internal reporting of irregularities. In relation to the amendment promoter, we corrected the last part, which is the internal reporting of irregularities, it was proposed public disclosure of irregularities, we believe that this statement in the law is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126861	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126862	Thank you very much. I accept such an amended amendment, and I agree that nomotechnically correct, given the statement defined in the law. In fact, the essence of my proposal remains the same, I wanted it to be possible in this way for public-legal authorities to also apply a limit of 50 employees to the employer's obligation because I believe that we have public-law bodies that may be very few employees and would impose an additional burden on them by means of a different or original proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126863	The second amendment is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126864	The amendment is not accepted. As regards the possibility of defining the employer as a set of related entities within the meaning of the law governing the territory of companies and public authorities, we reject such a proposal first because of the incompetence of such definition with other laws, in particular, the Labour Act and the Commercial Society Act, and we believe that this definition would cause difficulties in applying this law. The definition of related companies according to the Company Act shows that the related companies are legally independent companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126865	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126866	Dear Secretary of State, first of all you did not explain the rejection of the amendments entirely because if you had explained why you rejected this amendment in full, you would have referred to the part where I asked to reduce the figure from 50 to 20 but well, it doesn't matter, it is your right to refuse the amendment. However, this will lead to a completely, completely nadaladic situation, I will now describe it to you in practice. For example, Adris Group d.d. company as an independent legal person, as already mentioned, has employed 27 people or had on 31 December 2017, Adris Group d.d. That's why in the way you defined in the law, Adris Group d.d. does not have to implement the provisions of this law relating to employers because of the Adrian Group d.d. is not an employer within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, so for example, it does not have to apply a provision that says to protect the applicant of irregularities, in reality it can cancel, fire, get rid of the applicant of irregularities which, for example, some other employer who has over 50 employees would not have to. But why is this particularly problematic? Well, because Adris has no d.d. As a company in charge of holding management, the company has a total of 5398 employees. And now watch the situation. Adris Group’s trading companies must implement this law and Adris Group d.d. No, no, no. And I'm asking you, dear secretary of state, who do you think might potentially have more knowledge of irregularities? Is it possible that a Cromaris worker who feeds fish or someone who is in the management of a company and is daily in contact with financial reports? Well, of course this second one, but you're not protecting him with this bill, and that's why I insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126867	Thank you. The third amendment is a representative of the respected Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126868	Thank you very much. It is accepted in the amended form, the amended text reads: The confidential person is... The employer shall be appointed to receive the notification of irregularities and the conduct of the infringement proceedings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The change is only for the word "name" because of the crash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126869	Dear Representative Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126870	Thank you. I accept this amendment, so the very intensity of this amendment was that in those cases when the law predicted that a person who has support in more than 20% could not be obtained in the collective, the law stipulates that the employer could appoint that trusted person, but it did not say anywhere that it must be from the ranks of employees, so this removes the possibility of there being an outside person, a law firm, etc. which, in fact, when someone is in front of the Rules of Procedure, more achieves the more objectivity and trust of employees or parties in the function itself, and I think that by doing so, we have removed this one important option, because I believe that it will now have full meaning of this law and this trusted person will be someone by employees, of course, regardless of the person most of the will of the employee or the employer himself, so that once again I accept this amendment in a changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126871	Thank you. It's becoming, the explanation has been accepted. Fourth Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126872	The amendment is not accepted. Article 5(1) of the final draft of the law states that it is prohibited to prevent irregularities from being reported. The existing provision is already sufficiently transparent to stress that the prevention of irregularities is prohibited.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126873	On behalf of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126874	Therefore, it is clear that this amendment, which I have proposed, is that it more clearly formulates this whole situation and prevents the representatives of the authorities from being repressive towards the applicants of irregularities. We had a situation here in the Croatian Parliament when I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic about the illegal spending of money to the embassies in Canberra and Washington, that he said from the highest position that such performances usually lead to nothing, after which USKOK rejected the criminal application that Mr. Sablek made on account of this illegal spending of money, although the State Audition but also the Chief Inspector of the Ministry here before the Anti-Corruption Council confirmed that the rules had been violated, means the prime minister affected the entire process and stepped into protection, not the applicant of irregularities but stood in the protection of the perpetrators of irregularities, which his personal acquaintances and friends at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs such as Mr. Josak Para, or means the former chief secretaries of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Lorette Bertos Kushen, who has finally been replaced, but the man who reported irregularities are still being removed from the service and is still taking place. This is what the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic have to do with irregularities personally. So with this bill, you don't want to protect the applicants from irregularities, but you want to throw them out of the way means that when they report something to move them out of the service. This is unacceptable that you do not want to accept this amendment and thus have shown that you will continue to do what the prime minister here has done to me in response to the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126875	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126876	I'm in the market for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126877	Thank you. The fifth amendment is also the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126878	The amendment is not accepted, the proposed amendment is in fact prescribed in Article 14 of the Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law 2018/0106 which was published on 23 April 2018. We point out that the provision of Article 6(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, prescribed ban on the placing of applicants of irregularities in an unfavourable position due to the reporting of irregularities. In addition, the same article provides for anything deemed to be unfavourable, but it may not be tax-limited but may be wider than is provided for in this Article and includes other adverse practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126879	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126880	We absolutely do not understand that you did not accept this amendment, to explain to my colleagues and colleagues. Article 8 states that the abuse of the application of irregularities is an act of the person who has provided information that she knew is not true, which requires a certain illegal benefit or has taken other actions that are intended exclusively to harm the employer. However, how to claim that person [[Intruder: Please we may be a little quiet to co-worker.]] submits information which she knew was not true, who will determine it before it is established in a special procedure and by a decision of power or judgment. [[Let's hear it from a colleague.]] So you're putting every whistler in a very uncomfortable position because you're threatening him or threatening his employer's suit by giving him false information, that he wants to do damage to the company, and that the employer has in no way proven to him, in any way, but it can be a basis for scaring every whistler who wants to discover a certain irregularity. Well, the employer can't say This notifier is doing damage to the company and there is no evidence of that. [[Intruder: Fellows and colleagues please, I kindly ask you to calm down and shut up.]] If there is no procedure in which this has been legally established, you are in fact exposing whistles to the possibility that employers are suing them and that just when they need judicial protection most, they may even be being exposed to the persecution of employers and other measures of intimidation. And that's why we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126881	And the seventh amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126882	The amendment is not accepted, in Article 21(2) of the Final Proposal of the Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularity, it is prescribed that, as a competent authority, the Ombudsman shall give general legal information to the applicant of irregularities related to the protection of the right of the applicant of irregularities. We believe that those bodies, within the scope of their work, can provide adequate legal assistance to the applicant of irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126883	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126884	From the European Directive and the reasons, it is clear that Member States should do their utmost to protect the notifiers by installing that directive in their legal order. And it's not enough that the applicant of irregularities gets certain guidance or legal advice from the attorney general. What we're proposing with the amendment is that he has free legal aid. It is clear that the applicants of irregularities will be exposed to judicial proceedings, lawsuits, damages to their companies, false information and that they can be faced with lawsuits. That will certainly be the case. And instead of providing them with all legal aid and free legal aid in court proceedings, which can last for years, as we are unfortunately well aware, we bring this judicial protection down to the guidance and some information from the attorney general about what the rights of whistlers are. That's absolutely not enough. If we really want to protect them if we really want to give them judicial protection, which to people who may be out of work, who are fired, who are away from work, who have no material conditions to defend themselves in court, and we are cutting him free legal aid. Indeed, these people will be unprotected, and then indeed, they will not have the protection that the European Directive has just requested and therefore we are marketing for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126885	And the 8th Amendment is a Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126886	The amendment is not accepted, those deadlines in which employers are involved in the internal reporting of irregularities, i.e. Six months. for the adoption of acts, i.e. 9 months. the appointment of a confidential person is appropriate and the reduction of these would make it impossible for employers to adapt effectively, thereby jeopardising the effective protection of notifiers of irregularities in the internal reporting of irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126887	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of the Poddolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126888	Thank you. Of all the amendments we have tabled for this amendment, it has been said, even on the Committee on Justice, that it will be seriously considered in the ministry on its acceptance. But look what it is, this law, I suppose, will be passed, it will only take effect on 1 July of this year, then the running deadlines start, that employers pass the rules for the application of this law, and they are given a period of exceptional length, that in 9 months. the name of the Commissioner for Internal Reporting of Irregularity. In view of the legal deadlines, which are prescribed, this law would de facto begin to apply with all institutes, from internal to external reporting irregularities, only there next year, somewhere from the end of March, or early April. So, in February, we now pass this law, which needs to protect whistles, and the public must be aware that the deadlines provided for, for the entry into force of the law, for the making of the rules, for the appointment of persons who will be in charge as confidential persons, are foreseen, too long deadlines, which are in fact delaying the application in the full sense of the word of this law, for there next year, somewhere in April of the month. We are, in effect, delaying the protection of all those whistles, which will report irregularities and therefore demand a vote on our amendment that requires the reduction of those deadlines for the application of these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126889	Thank you and the 9th Amendment is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the Powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126890	The amendment is not accepted. Article 90(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provides that the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the national authorities and bodies having public authority may not have any feedback.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126891	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Honorable Representative Pernar. Please, if anyone has been involved, colleague Podolnjak, colleague Podolnjak, please, please turn off that colleague Pernar may say, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126892	Thank you, my dear. I'd like to say that the basic problem that we have with these whistles is that the whistles so far have been a lot and that these people have been killed, and that the law does not have retroactive application, but will only apply to future whistles and not since next year. And we get into trouble, we get into trouble because there's really no protection for people who have reported irregularities so far. We have made an amendment to say that this law is being applied retroactively. If the law will not be applied retroactively, for all these whistles so far he will not have any objections and will, in fact, represent an exclusively dead letter on paper. And by doing so, it will show that all those who have worked, or whistled, reported irregularities, that in one sense, they have done so in vain. And for that reason, I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-01-0.u126893	Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Injustice, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 445, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by a representative of Peđa Grbin, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, representative of Stjepan Čuraj, representative Marija Jelkovac, the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means and the amendments were agreed at the session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept, so let's go to First Representative Marija Jelkovac, and it has been accepted in changed form, so it has been accepted and agreed by colleague Jelkovac so that we do not have to vote. Then let's go to Amendment number two of Peja Grbin's representatives, the government won't accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 3 of Stjepan Curaj's MPs was also accepted in changed form, the applicant accepted it. Amendment number 4 The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5 of the same club the government does not accept, please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 6th of the same Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 7. the same Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 8th of the same Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the last amendment of the Living Wall and Power Club, the government doesn't accept it either. It has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, please vote. I find that most of the vote 79 ZA, 33 abstentions, has been passed the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work as always Wednesday, the first day of the week when it comes to plenary session, we have a speech on behalf of clubs or independent representatives, so here is the first day of fellow Ivan Lovrinović, who holds his position for 5 minutes. Here you go.
