ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u123895	Thank you, Honored Presidential Assembly, Honorable MPs and MPs, I will speak today about the Croatian judiciary. I believe that the Croatian judiciary is a huge problem of Croatian systems and society. Recently, the Croatian public threatened the Daruvarac case, a large number of protesters in Zadar protested against the proceedings in the case itself, voiced dissatisfaction with the Croatian judiciary, and I think it is a precedent where so many people went to the streets to fight the Croatian judiciary. Minister Bosnjakovic said the perception of the judiciary is negative only because of a few exposed cases. But is that true? We witness that every day there is an affair in the Croatian judiciary and that Croatian citizens do not trust our judiciary. I think it's a chaotic and alarming situation and if it doesn't go into some radical reform of the Croatian judicial system, there may be a situation where these protests will become bigger and bigger in the future, and then eventually it will be harder and stop if these systemic problems don't begin to solve. In order to solve problems in the judiciary at all, responsible people must admit that these problems exist. So Minister Bosnjakovic can't avoid the fact that these problems exist and tell the Croatian public that mistrust in the Croatian judiciary is just because of a couple of negatively exposed cases. Croatia is on a high scale towards the corruption index and we can thank it precisely to a judicial system that is not functional, biased and can be said in a good part corrupt. It should be said that judges have too little pay in view of the responsibility they have and are therefore more vulnerable to certain interests, lobbys, corruption. I welcome the measure where Croatian judges will raise salaries but it must go with greater responsibility in terms of the supervision of judges. We have a very inconsistent court practice, so according to the same cases of different decisions. The World Economic Forum recently provided information that the Croatian judiciary is 120th among the 140 states. We're talking about positioning in view of the independence of the judiciary. The smaller independent judiciary in Europe has only BiH, Macedonia and Albania. Croatia is also among the worst-rated countries for the effectiveness and perception of the independence of the judiciary in a report on the state of justice in the EU published by the European Commission in 2014. Nothing has changed since then. Another indicator that proves that Croatian citizens are extremely dissatisfied with the Croatian judiciary is that more than 15,000 civil litigation cases are being conducted in the Supreme Court means a serious quantitative data that points to dissatisfaction at lower levels. And a new measure should be mentioned, and this way it is welcomed where judges will have to publicly publish their property cards. I call on the Croatian public to see which judges object to such measures. Why individual judges object against transparency and the publication of their property cards as well as the fact that we as advocates have published property cards and as all persons working in the public service who occupy responsible functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u123896	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Marin Schibola, as an independent representative, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u123897	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Assembly, honourable MPs and MPs, at the outset, for touching all the chronology that took place during this request for a preliminary question to the European Court of Justice on the law of lex Škibol. So after the Law on Vulnerabilities was voted in the Croatian Parliament in 14.7.2017, effective and effective protection of Croatian citizens who are in charge of the so-called so-called "Court". Unauthorized believers. Why unauthorized creditors, because they did not comply with the essential regulations prescribed by the competent credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. So the law prevented over 200 executions, the law led to 100 zero credit agreements and even a few powerful judgments on worthless contracts. As a result, the law is also adopted in Directive 2014/17 of the European Parliament and of the Council that a number of problems have been identified in the mortgage markets in the Union relating to irresponsible lending and borrowing and a potential space for irresponsible behaviour of market participants, including credit intermediaries and not credit institutions. So here you had just these credit intermediaries who acted unauthorizedly, did not pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia and thus damaged the significant Croatian State budget and citizens. Two months after the passed law in the Croatian Parliament, a banking group of savings-credited cooperatives from Styria sends a request for an assessment of constitutionality to the Constitutional Court and I understand that the banking group is sending a request for a constitutional assessment to the Constitutional Court because their financial interest is at stake, meaning over a billion kunas that have acquired an unfair interest and illegal manner. I don't find it at all controversial that savings-credit cooperatives have passed the law to the Constitutional Court. However, I find it disputed very soon after an assessment of the constitutionality of the judge of Rab Mirel Rodin refuses to judge by law in the case of Milivojevic and sends so-called. previous questions to the European Court of Justice pursuant to Articles 213 and 218. The law on litigation, which is legitimate, however, we must ask why certain judges question laws that protect Croatian citizens, which protect Croatian interest rather than question laws that are against Croatian citizens. For what reason has no one sent Lex Agrokor to the European Court of Justice? That's my question, is there a freedom to endanger capital and move services, I believe there are such elements. It should be said that this judge lives under the mortgage of Reifeisen St. Stefan credit cooperatives and after having done this previous issue she is exempt from all these cases with Reifeisen cooperatives. It should also be said that there are only 12 such previous questions to the European Court of Justice since we entered the EU and you see how many attacks have been made on the law on the integrity of the loan agreement. Because citizens are convinced that it is a single structure, a set-up of the destruction of the law, they have reported it to the DORH, the USKOK, but they do not trust the DORH and USKOK, and therefore they went to Brussels twice to an institution called OLF that prevents financial fraud at EU level, the OLF has respected the relevant documentation that the citizens have brought and now the process has a number, they are doing the tests. The second thing that represented the party in the EU court proceedings did not send a written statement to the European Court at all. So the man didn't even send a written statement, let alone appear at the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. The European Court's objection is discrimination against unauthorized creditors, but we have not discriminated against anyone, we also sanctioned such European law as It is served to us against Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u123898	Now it's time for my colleague, Marin Schibola, to be an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u123899	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Nurses and medical technicians form the most numerous professional group in the health system. Almost half of the total staff of healthcare workers means about 44.4%. Since Croatia's entry into the EU, more than 1,000 nurses and technicians have left Croatia since 2013. This would not be alarming if there were no need for medical professionals in Croatia, but when we also know that there are chronic shortages of nurses in Croatia, according to the latest estimates, 8-12 thousand of them, then a question arises which is the goal of such an economic and health policy of the government. There are only 300 nurses missing from the Zagreb KBC. There are at least 100 nurses missing at KBC Rijeka without talking about a hospital in Pula. A nurse at the Rijeka hospital gets a salary of about 5,000 kuna, a senior nurse 5.5,000 kuna, and the highest salary she can make is 6 thousand kuna. From the beginning of July to the end of 2018, 56 nurses left the Rijeka hospital, with an average of 10 per month leaving, mostly abroad where nurses' salaries of 2-2.5,000 euros are paid. With such a tendency from the secondary medical school and the health university, it will be in the service of other EU member states, such as Germany, Ireland, Austria, and not Croatia, which does not worry in this case by the great patriots from HDZ or Mr. Kujundzic, Mr. Kujundzic. Mr. Kujundzic, aren't you ashamed that such an exodus of medical professionals happens during your term of office? Often in their jobs unprotected by various issues, exposed to unnecessary stress because of the atmosphere and situations created by superiors and various types of mobbing. Mobbing many do not report out of a variety of fears, and those who report it are mostly protected in a way to move them to another workplace that causes extra stress to their sister, and the person doing the mobing, unfortunately the nurses say often that it is about doctors staying in their workplace without any sanctions. In concessionaires and privates, although not everyone's, honoring exceptions, labour conditions and wages are embarrassingly bad, so he would dare say humiliating. In many private institutions especially homes for older and powerless nurses work for minimum wages, and the number of people they care about is too high for one nurse and is beyond all norms. It happened, so it happened that one nurse with one or two nurse cared for 70 people. It is important to note that many nurses are very dissatisfied with the efforts and results of the Chamber of Nurses, which they are obliged to join and each month pay membership fees. Because of all of these, and many more unfavourable opportunities for nurses and technicians, many of them happen to experience so - called. Burning syndrome. At that time, the situation becomes even more unfavourable and is greatly reflected in their workplace and within their families. But as is often the case with us, who asks you how you feel, who terrorizes you in your workplace, do you have any way to get patience, understanding, and smiles first for the many patients your sisters and technicians care about. I want to thank many nurses who do exactly that and give more than they should in order to be with their patients and family in their illness. I also give thanks to all other medical professionals who are responsible and humane for their work, but this one I especially address to nurses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125863	So before we move to the 1st item of the agenda, I would suggest that we discuss the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, points 4, 5, 6 and 7 through a united debate. These are points related to mail and postal services. Here, I'll read what they're called. Points Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the First Additional Protocol with the General Rules of the World Postal Union, Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Ninth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union and Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Postal Payment Services Agreement with the Final Protocol. Is there anyone against this proposal? If not, I find that we will discuss these points unitedly. So now we move to the 1st item of the agenda, that's: - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants, first reading, P.Z. No. 516; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. And now I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of this law. With us we have respected Katica Prpic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125864	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, This law, together with the Law on the Payments of Civil Servants and Detentions, makes up a package of normative solutions which will be audited by the system of wages in accordance with the National Reform Programme and determine the labour values based on the results of work and expertise achieved. The following is proposed to delete the provisions of the Law on civil servants relating to the classification of posts, evaluation and promotion, as these legal institutes are proposed to be regulated by the Law on Salaries and its implementing regulations. Furthermore, it is proposed to make it extremely possible for the state service to be admitted for a certain period of time for more than a year and related to the existing obligations of the Republic of Croatia regarding the Presidency of the EU Council, i.e. the implementation of the international commitments undertaken. In this case, the State Service could have lasted as long as the need to carry out presidencies or to carry out international obligations. The list of jobs and the number of officials to be admitted to the state service for a specified time, for the purpose of performing the tasks, which relate to the implementation of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia or to the obligations under the special programme of the Government, will be determined by a decision of the State authority, with the prior consent of the Ministry of Finance in charge and by the International Obligations and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. An increased range of jobs and specific new activities will require not only employment at a certain time in state bodies, but also by providing services by concluding a contract on the part. It is therefore proposed to de-mining the funds that can be spent on the conclusion of a contract on a part to carry out professional and technical transactions that are not part of the body's work and are brought to the realization of the international commitments undertaken by the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the existing legal provision limits the cost of service providers based on a share contract to 2% of the total amount for fixed wage funds with contributions in the current year provided for by the individual body. And what is considered insufficient for state bodies, which should engage experts outside the state service with technical and specific knowledge for the Presidency of the EU Council of the Republic of Croatia by carrying out international obligations. For the sake of uniform and uninterrupted application of the law on salaries to civil servants, seconded officials, it is proposed to amend the status of subsistences in a way that is subject to the Institute of the Law on Civil Servants, not as general rules on labour so far. Thus, according to the proposed amendment of the law, tenants will no longer be contracted on work, but work legal status will be regulated by a solution as well as for officials. Revitalise the state expert exam in a state examination, in a way that only applies to the general section of the expert examination so far, while the specific part would be excluded or, in the light of the specific part of the national expert examination so far, it would be carried out as a special expert examination, only if it was prescribed by a special regulation. It is also proposed to prescribe the obligation to pass state exams at two levels. It is also proposed to establish a new way to pass a state exam by written means, thus improving the quality of the state exam, with the aim of rational use of resources, with the achievement of candidate satisfaction with an objective knowledge assessment. This change will allow the establishment of state examinations by electronic means and at regional level, modern testing methods to achieve transparency, expertise and objectivity of the examination of all candidates under equal conditions. It is proposed to amend the provisions of the State Service Accession Plan, to highlight the role of each body, to plan employment and take care of available financial resources for new employment. To this end, it is proposed to specify the method of preparation and the procedure for the adoption of the admission plan into the national service. The rules on how to prepare and process admission plans for the state service, for the authorities of the state administration and the offices and professional services of the government, would be adopted by the Minister of Administration and by the Minister of Justice for the judicial authorities. It is proposed to delete the obligation to publish the plan in at least one daily list sold throughout the Republic of Croatia, which will lead to budget savings and will not prejudice the transparency of planning for reasons why the plan must continue to be published on the Ministry of Administration's website and in the National Journal. The obligation of a direct superior to the provision, the submission of a written proposal for the initiation of proceedings for the ease of breach of official duty, i.e. the notification of the head of the body, of a serious violation of the official duty, of a certain official. In the absence of compliance with this obligation, it constitutes an easy violation of the official duty of a directly superior officer. The entry into force of this law 8 days from the publication in the National Journal, however, to the establishment of salaries, the classification of jobs and the evaluation of new wage law, and its sales regulations, is proposed to postpone the application of articles which are deleted by the Law on civil servants on the classification of posts, evaluation, promotion, promotion, promotion of civil servants, and classification and salaries of deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125865	I thank the secretary of state, we have three replicas, the first colleague is Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125866	Thank you, President of the Parliament, thank you to the Secretary of State. I just wanted a little clarification when you were talking about, that it would be approved by law of employment for a certain time to one year, in the context of the EU's precedent, whether it's only in this context, or that solution will remain in the law and for other situations, when necessary. Because in the ministries, work comes in waves, as well as in business, and you can't always expect to change the law, if you need to hire more people. This has proved necessary, especially when certain projects are taken over, and this is not the only project that Croatia will take over, many projects, many ministries will take over, and if you do not have the opportunity to humanely respect things for large projects then there are various irregularities, because people have to solve the situation, and the legal constraints are great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125867	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125868	Thank you for asking the question, here is to clarify exactly what you have proposed, and it is written, meaning longer during the course of the international commitment, an international commitment, especially for projects from the EU funding programme, which lasts for more than 12 months, means 24 months, 36 months, and even some projects last 76 months. So, during the duration of that project.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125869	Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125870	I thank Mr. President of the Assembly, the respected State Secretary, these amendments to the law, which you are proposing are already 10, 11 amendments to the Law on State Servants, in the public debate, it has been stated that the need for the adoption of a new law is not only an objective need because of the many changes but the fact that the unique new technical rules that the Croatian Parliament itself has set out, require every promoter and the Ministry of Administration to propose a new law given the fact that it has been so many times changed that it is unrecognizable in its original form, that neither the consolidated text has been made and... which has been pointed out by more participants in the public debate, my question why did you not logically propose a new whole law but actually propose an 11th amendment to the existing one? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125871	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125872	Your Honor, I thank you for the question, but we have proposed this according to the legislative plan, in the second quarter it will now be proposed to the Law on Officials and Landowners, this year, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125873	And the third replica of my colleague, Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125874	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretary, therefore my replica goes in the direction in which Prof. The mid-term, from 1.1.2006 to d, came into force this law according to the data that you have provided here in an explanation, has been changed 15 times. So you're now, I was going to ask you, you're talking about the second quarter of this year and the explanation when you responded to the comments from the public debate you said that it was a very complex law and I'm now taking advantage of the opportunity, since you've already answered that it would be in the second quarter, will that law really include all officials, all public officials, and units of local self-government, and that in that law, will you have any intention of equating wages in all these public institutions, and will that put those who are now in a more favourable position, in particular, units of local self-government and their ability to pay in representative bodies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125875	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125876	Thank you very much. Only one correction, so in the second quarter should come before the government and, yes, will include civil servants and residents in the area of regional and local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125877	Now we've come to a possible discussion of the board's representatives. Is there anyone on behalf of the board? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first is the club of the representatives of the Independent Lists and the esteemed colleague Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125878	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As I was saying in my opening statement in the replica, we have before us a bill, one of the unbridled many amendments to this Law on Civil Service, the 2005 Law, which, if I counted carefully, has been amended 11 times over the past years, so practically almost once a year, this law changes. This shows that we do not have one resolved, one systematic normative solution to all relevant issues with status, wage system and everything else related to civil servants. In particular, as pointed out in consultation with the interested public, I would say that the chronic problem is that we have a deployed system of officials, a separate system of civil servants from the system in local and regional self-government. It's sad that in our environment, in a series of neighbouring countries, we can see the opposite. I know from direct experiences from Slovenia, Austria and Germany that they have a unique system of public officials and that it is the same law and orderly position and conditions for promotion and of course salaries of officials. Unfortunately, we have great differences from the very beginning and the formation of Croatian local and county self-government, and unfortunately so far we have not bridged the gap that exists between civil servants and local officials. I hope that the ministry as it announces will finally draft a law that would include a complete system of all public officials and perhaps in fact a whole public sector. You yourself point out in the proposal that this is only one transitional solution, that a new law is expected, that this law also requires a law on the salaries of civil servants who have clearly been in the works for many years and has been said in much of this debate in public consultation. It is expected that the ministry will propose these legislative proposals this year, that we may have a systematic solution from civil servants this year. We'll see about that, but then there's the question of why this haste over the adoption of these partial amendments to the Civil Service Act. We will concentrate in this debate on some of our most important aspects and which are for us in MOST and the most problematic. They refer to the so-called. the flexibility of employment in the state service and the increase of costs for work contracts. And it seems to us that exactly the legal provisions that apply to this, the reason for these present, are the primary reason for amending the laws that are now being proposed. According to the law of Article 53, persons are generally admitted to the public service indefinitely and with mandatory probationary work. The trial work for persons who have been admitted by regular procedure, so the training course lasts 12 months. and for those admitted through an extraordinary procedure, the trial work takes three months. According to the Law on possible reception of officials and for a certain period of time if the temporary increase in the scope of the transactions is but not more than one year. However, the Law was then amended in June 2017 so that for the purposes of working on the Project financed by the EU Funds or Programme, a person could be admitted to the state service for a certain period of time during the duration of the project, Art. 61, which extends the work to a specific period of time for that category of officials for a period of more than one year. In one discussion in HS, I questioned the effect of this legislative provision because the applicant assured that this is necessary, that there are not enough qualified persons in the state administration to work on EU projects. However, we have never seen data on the number of persons admitted on the basis of this legislative provision, how many employees there are now on this basis, in which the ministries and other authorities of the state administration and whether this has had an impact on EU projects to attract EU funds to the number of employees. Therefore, we open the door to hire new employees for a certain period of time for more than a year, and then we have no feedback on the effects of this employment. And we remember years ago that such a policy began with the employment of persons related to the mandates of officials in their cabinets, so-called. Revolving dor, which abolished its decision by the Constitutional Court sometime at the end of that term in 2015. And now the amendment of the article is again proposed. 61st and expanding the possibility of hiring individuals for a certain period of time. Therefore, according to the amendments proposed, the public service of a person could now be admitted for a period of more than one year and for the performance of operations relating to the implementation of the undertaken international obligations of the Republic of Croatia or to the performance of the tasks of temporary staff referred to in the performance of the international obligations undertaken until those obligations have been fulfilled and in order to carry out the tasks relating to the implementation of the obligations under the Government Special Programmes until those obligations have been fulfilled. Therefore, two are the new basis for the employment of persons for a certain period of time for more than a year until the implementation of international obligations or for the implementation of, or obligations under, the Government's Specific Programmes. Of course, this is not the general norm that all obligations are about, the international character. He mentioned that, for example, the Presidency of the EU Council is one of these international obligations, but such obligations can be far more so for other international organisations, on some other basis. Just as we do not know which are all the Special Government Programmes that would require the employment of persons for a certain period of time until these commitments are carried out. We, therefore, are introducing a fully open door for hiring new persons in the public service indefinitely, we can say for a certain time for the duration of obligations or specific programmes, but please, carry out the international commitments undertaken. It is always possible to repeat certain international obligations over and over again, it is a very flexible formulation, it does not say here that it is solely for the sake of the Presidency of the EU Council and then there may be some other obligation, an international obligation that the Republic of Croatia has accepted. So the legal provision here offers a very flexible interpretation, of course, if it's going to slow down. But this raises one more question. Do we really not have officials in the state administration who are able to do the work that can be prepared to do the work on the basis of the international obligations undertaken, for example, relating to the Presidency of the EU Council or to some of the Government's specific programmes? So, we recognise by this legislative proposal that we have an unprofessional state administration, that people who are now in the state administration with certain redistributions of jobs, by referring to work in another state body for a certain time, we cannot ensure that these obligations, international or government programmes are implemented in a certain time. You've practically given a very bad assessment of employees who are now working in the state administration because you're opening up a wide space for hiring new people. In doing so, by making these legal changes, this HS won't know how many people we receive in the government, how long they'll be employed for a certain time. We do not even know now about the EU's projects which are the figure and what the effects of this additional employment are, but the fact is, it is undeniable that with this change Article. 61st, we only further create legal basis for employment for a certain time. So what kind of rationalization of the state administration is this? So, we have the state administration, thousands of government officials, but they are obviously not enough to carry out tasks related to the undertaken international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. For example, the chairmanship of the EU Council, but I wonder, what are all those officials doing in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs? Don't we have a large number of high-quality officers in that vault? Who will now be the persons who will be hired temporarily for the duration of the EU Council Presidency and that this must last for more than a year, which is the profile of professionals, whether they are translators, whether they are some other persons, they do not even have a state expert exam, so we will let a large number of people into the system that the government has assessed that it needs, to do very professional jobs, the most professional jobs related to the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, for example, with the chairmanship of the EU Council or for certain government programmes. But back to the key question, what kind of employees do we have in the state administration? This is a big shower for these people, why don't these people prepare, educate and pay better, to do a job for which they are professionally qualified and have a state expert exam. And another provision that is absolutely controversial to us, which refers to the trust of business based on an operating contract, to service providers outside the state service. The current legislative provision stipulates that expenditure on providers of these professional services must not exceed 2% of the total amount of basic salary funds, with contributions in the current year provided for by that body, 2%, therefore there is a legal limit for contracts of activity, so to pay to persons outside the state administration system who will carry out certain professional tasks for that state body. And what we are doing now is we are erasing this 2% percentage, so we simply eliminate it, because of the need for professionals because of the Presidency of the EU Council or some other obligation international. But not that we're now increasing that percentage to maybe 3% exceptional, not that we've absolutely removed it, which means that you can trust both jobs and 5 and 10 and 15 and 20% of the basic salary funds, there's no limit anymore. We're actually going to reward the officers, educate them, increase their very low wages that they have in the system, and we all know that, instead, we're going to allocate significant funds by means of a contract of action and pay people outside the state administration who's going to earn on the basis of the jobs they're going to do. According to this legal change without any limit of intent is clear, we will not pay employees who are now working for which we want to work quality to pay them better, but without restrictions we will pay it to people outside the state administration. It's not a good message, it's absolutely wrong, it means we're not going to reward the officers who are in our system, but we're going to either single out the money for a certain time or based on an act contract, and that's the essence of the changes that are being proposed, and that's why we at MOSTU, of course, won't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125879	We continue with the club of representatives, following on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS fellow Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125880	I would like to thank the Vice-President, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-worker and colleague, so first of all, I could speak in a diametric way from the previous speaker, and I think we understand the reasons and welcome the main meaning of why we are discussing this today, and this is primarily about the flexibility of employment in public services because of the upcoming, upcoming EU presidency. So I think it's very clear that both through a contract to a certain work and a time period through the transfer of certain officers that it's necessary to arrange for me to do this great task as well as in the greater benefit and on, and let's just say that we wouldn't even be ashamed of God. I think that a series of these legal proposals are going in that direction, so I'm not going to repeat what's not related to it, it's actually about a new model of evaluation and progress that should be regulated by the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies if I'm not mistaken, where it's mentioned, so we're now going into one, so here we're going to be removing articles of 83 4 etc., where it's been regulated how the grades are written, etc., and we're waiting for a new whole solution, and I'm going to concentrate on this one, one of these things that would be a new law that wouldn't overlap with this, so a new way of solving just these things. Of course, here what's also good, is that in these expert exams, i.e. state exams, two levels are introduced, the medium technical equipment for multiple degrees of education also reduces the burden so something we're a little bit of let's say is what it's called to introduce more efficiency. It's also equalizing the tenants actually with the officers. But what really is the key to me and what should be the goal of all the laws that have to do with civil servants is an effective and economical state administration, or a cheap state administration that serves citizens. This is the goal of every, every administration, every state service, every civil servant there must be as a service to the citizens, not someone who decides on their rights in the sense that he has any subjective assessment, he will give someone help, not no, but fulfil what the law provides, in the fastest, most qualitative way possible. That's what this law should aim at, all of these laws. Why? First of all, I would have distributed it in two ways. One is receiving into the state service, the other is evaluating, valorising already existing employees. When we're talking about receiving, I think we all know public tenders going, calling, etc., here's something that's going on about calling both in the pages and in one of the national lists, it's all technique, I'm interested in the next thing. Is it possible to establish a single invitation to enter a state service that would be held several times a year, say quarterly, and also that we have a situation today, and that really is why paper is important. The terms of the diploma are prescribed, the level of the level of education, and you need to have a paper that proves you're meeting that condition. Does that paper, whether the grades that led to that paper matter, where that paper is, no, the clutch, the condition is fulfilled. Why, why it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what college you're in, whether you're in this country, whether you're in a university or someone else's, because it's not all the same when you're in it. But we can't do this discrimination, but we could, there are rank lists of universities, there's certainly a rank of college that doesn't care to end the economy in Zagreb or I don't know somewhere in another country or some university, and the same rank and level of education. When we're looking for civil servants, that's what they'd be looking for the best. Ratings when and where a copy of the grade is required and how much the grades at the university for admission to the state service, if someone has 2.3 or 4.7 average, is important, and I think that, and if requested, I haven't heard anywhere that it's any part of the points for admission to work. Why? Also the competition, means more elements of as little subjectivity as possible of more objective factors. What are the objective factors? If we can't decide already on a college ranking, which I think might be, if we already have universities that are ranked, at least at university level, an assessment that they've achieved in the acquisition of that level of scientific or professional whatever education and written checks themselves. By example let's put the word very simply on the national prom, by the same example, secrets, one agency, external evaluation, ranking list, all in Croatia. Every three months, someone can access and receive their number of points and then those who meet, who respond, and then go potentially subjective, subjective assessment of the competent person or the person in charge of a particular body. So when we count it all down, we get a lot more quality employees and a lot more motivated to work there. Now that we're here that they're already busy, that's the other part. Because I think while we don't have a strong labour market that will define it, let's say in America you can have a degree in college that came 10 times, but when you go somewhere to get a job, when you see him with which degree you come no one will take you, and there's no state service the best thing in the world that can happen to you, why, because people are used to getting average or decent salaries and doing as many malts as they want, or how much they have to, in terms of minimum, that's this second part of the di where we're going to come from. It's not like we haven't developed a strong labour market yet and we still have the most challenging, the best places in some civil servants where what they say you can only go out with death, with your own immeasurable stupidity or not knowing how different or personal failure. It's the same other pair of shoes. And since we already have some employees of what's happening to us, we have people who are doing their job absolutely diligently, who are good, who are trying, there are those who don't, and they all have equal pay. Where is that motivation for someone to be that service to the citizens, to be at your service? When we talk about evaluation and evaluation and valorisation, then most often those who know, they will, they may need, who are hardworking employees, when something responsible should do it, of course we give it to them and burden them with the extra work because we don't know that one, I won't spare him, so he can't do anything, but he'll still receive one and the same pay. It's a cruel reality, I'm not going to say it in people's words now, but I think we can all recognize it. The evaluation, valorisation, valorisation of money to reward the increase in wages, we always have the tendency to have 30% of the extra employees and 15% of the missing, yes, the excess of those who don't want to work, the lack they want, they can and know. The assessment must be made by users, above all by citizens who work with them, by any means by electronic means, by applications, anonymously, in any way possible to assess your service that you have the right to, as provided, your relationship with the person etc. We have a statistical which can be very well solved, qualitatively and quantitatively, is not the same, the number of cases solved and the quality of the same and how many of these cases have had complaints, is not, as the complaints have passed, all of these are things that can and should be arranged, whether legally, whether the law should give the framework, the possibilities, but that this is how it works in the regulated countries, who do so much work has the right to pay at the end of the line and can no longer do the one who does not know, won't or can't. I can't, of course, think not of some physical defects but simply of ignorance. And when we do that, then that subjective level, as many superiors as he loves, as anyone has come, or whatever they say, will come down to a minimum, and allow people who do good work to have more motivation, bigger wages, and in the end, those who don't will go on themselves. And then we're going back to need those 15% new ones and the way I suggested them here, in a single competition, at the level of the entire Republic, it can be done very well, and individual or can be three, four different segments of the contest chosen in advance. Ratings, absolutely, so you can't tell me that someone, whether they had one, had studied for 10 years and had an average of 2.3 or someone ended up in five years with an average of 4.5. What kind of civil servant do we want, or we don't care? And we're civil servants here for the sake of citizens, we're a service to citizens who pay for it, and when things start to get that way, then a little different and the mental set will change. Not to let the citizens come in and pray to God like that that no one can tear them out when they're looking for their rights and watch if they don't come for someone to take them a little bit better, that I don't know how to call them someone, a relationship, whatever you want. Imagine, a relationship that gives you what belongs to you. God forbid! And that's reality, and God forbid someone's super smiling to give you, to give you, to get everything, people to cross, say, this is what they've never experienced. There are those, of course there are. Well, of course there are people who know, they can and will, but after four, five years and they give up, so they're not fools, what they're going to do now, they're going to kill themselves for the same pay as the one who doesn't work, who hangs around, as they say in our people, by coffee or what I know... etc., etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's there, the man turns out to be a fool, then everyone still looks at him for being stupid, for not being normal, what are you trying to do? Now, we need to make these people want to try and that this effort is rewarded, it's rewarding, it's valorisation, it's purpose and of course we have this inherited socialist part. Of course, you can't spend the night, but I think it's time to take this seriously because we have to get ready for the state service that today is the best employee, in 10, 15 years, God will no longer be, he's given us God before, and he's going to give us people then, where they can get for their knowledge and hard work a lot more pay, and here, I don't know what's left, I don't know what kind of system we're going to have, and what's going to have problems with the end line of cost for the state, because any mistake of that employee who's sad, later results in even higher costs and hiring other state appliances and other resources, and I'm not talking about financial repercusions and that someone wrongly solved some case, no one. It's being sued, it's well established, then you pay interest, everything, this man does still, to no one. How, is that possible? I'm not saying someone should get fired right now because of their mistake, mistakes happen, but they need to be reduced to a minimum, but they need to be valorized by those who are trying because there's a lot of good people who know how to work, who want to work, but they just need to make it possible for them to feel good, to feel good, not to feel like fools, and these others will already leave themselves. When you reward them several times, when they see those who work get a higher salary, they can say those who have no results, but people themselves will go away, we don't have to worry about it too much. So that's something you'd like to try to incorporate in further consideration. Surely that a unique contest is something that is feasible, which is possible, a ranking list, let it be 500 people, 1000 people, let it be known, and then someone tries to hire 378 on the rank list, and the previous place competes with another 200 and let them explain it, I don't know what points. It will be difficult to pass, and certainly everyone will have the right and transparent view of it, only that part, that we do not say that we put the rating in the categorization and the score, which, in my opinion, would be quite normal. Absolutely normal and necessary, not to watch if you have paper, you don't, but to watch how many points this brings to you. At the end of the line, if you're in college, you're looking at high school points, so what's different? Or state graduation, then what's different? And scores more. Same thing. Let's do it. I think that there is space, there is time, it just needs determination and I say once more the HNS club will support these changes, I think that, first of all, they are also introductoryly what I said, very much related to our presidency and that we need to enable as much flexibility as possible, as many people as possible, as best and as best as possible if this is happening now and then we can wait for the next 15 years, and we need to know what it means politically, what themes and what we can have for our country through this qualitatively defined presidency, if this is what we are looking at, we are talking about, and in this way we are certainly increasing our reputation and influence within the EU, and only when we are talking about some other options. Therefore, once again I commend this part and ask that these measures, or these proposals, be included in the preparation of further legislative proposals, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125881	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ counseling club, colleague Marija Jelkovac, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125882	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the HS, I warmly welcome you all, and on behalf of the HDZ, I will make fundamental observations about the proposal of this Act. Introductoryly, the Law on Civil Servants, as it has been pointed out so far, has seen a number of changes and rejoiced that this year we will experience a new whole law, and it is also justified why we are now going into these amendments and additions. That Law regulates, first of all, the rights, obligations and responsibilities of civil servants, their admission to the state service, the way in which jobs are filled, and the classification of jobs, the evaluation of civil servants, their education, the way the state service ceases, and then, in a special chapter, regulates the status of residents, and everything that is not resolved from the field of working legal relations with this Act, the provisions of the General Labour Regulation apply. The labour law. As we have heard, because of the preparation of a new normative framework for the uniform system of salaries. The new Law on civil servants’ salaries also requires some provisions of this Law on civil servants, which primarily relate to the classification of jobs and the evaluation of civil servants, to delete or redefine, so that the same matter is not regulated in several different laws. The proposed amendments amend the status of the tenants in such a way as to apply the provisions relating to civil servants, which has not been the case so far. So in the future, i.e. After the entry into force of these amendments and additions and their establishment of a working relationship, it would be based on a adopted reception solution rather than on a contract, as is the case now. Only provisions relating to the traineeship and to the submission of the national expert examination to the subsistence staff would not apply. And it would also not be a test of the tenants, but only an interview would be conducted with them at the reception. What I mean is, I think that a lot has been said about this and by colleague Podoljnjak in the redefined these provisions regarding reception for a certain time, I think it is necessary, especially because of these new commitments that we will have due to the meeting of the EU Council, but also because of some other international commitments taken. I think that in this way we are just achieving a more flexible state administration, or the possibility that certain jobs that are known in advance will have a certain duration of time, but it will be longer than a year, allowing for a certain time. Today we have a situation that this is maximum for a year except for the exception is for those projects and we have already been going towards amending the law, so other than that of employment from EU projects that last longer than a year. I would not agree with my colleague, Dolnjak, that it is actually a wide-ranging door opening for a certain period of time without any restriction, nor does anyone think that because of this possibility, it will now go into headless employment of civil servants for a certain time, but I think it is necessary to open this possibility precisely for the reason to be where it is and when it is necessary and necessary because of certain increases in the size of the jobs to create this possibility. Because otherwise we have a situation already today that if we do not foresee it in the law that we will have a situation where we have an officer for a certain time within a system of state administration that is already working on certain jobs, he knows how to do them well but it is a year and a contract has to be terminated for a certain time and a re-commence has to be opened for re-entry of the same tasks that will take a certain time again. We therefore believe that this is unnecessary administration and that it leads to the ineffectiveness of the state service and that this provision allows us to allow for precisely specific reasons to enable those civil servants who have been admitted for a certain time to work on these jobs to be allowed until the duration of these jobs, and these are again limited to the business of the international obligations undertaken, as is this great obligation that follows us, which is the Presidency of the EU Council. So I don't think it's a splash for civil servants and the state administration, so it's certain that there will be an increase in the volume of jobs and that we need to create an effective mechanism of how and how to respond to these needs. Furthermore, as for some of the other amendments that are made to these amendments and additions, I would like to say that I believe that we will talk about it more and quite now, and my colleague Curaj has raised this issue as regards the evaluation of civil servants and admissions to the service, I think that I have shown that this existing evaluation within the state service and when we talk about the assessment of the general staff, we can also say that the existing evaluation within the units of local and regional, or regional self-government, is foreseen and prescribed in the way that it has so far shown no specific results. I think that we should keep in the future an eye on the fact that we really prescribe good criteria in this evaluation, because if we do not have the criteria well described and prescribed then we open up the possibility that that body that has an evaluation obligation, or the manager, is really many times in doubt how this evaluation actually takes place, so that many times it goes through a line of less resistance, and we are witnesses that we have most often all assessed equally and we ourselves are aware that not all employees of equal opportunities are even within the same ranks, nor within the same technical preparations, that they do not all work equally. And that is why I think and expect that these criteria will be much better developed in the future so that we will have a better valorisation of civil servants and also officials in units of local and regional self-government. And I would disagree that we must have an efficient and cheap service, I think it must be effectively and well paid. If we insist, it means paid according to our work results. If we insist on the cheap state service, then I'm afraid what's already started to happen to us is that all quality personnel are leaving the state service and delaying our better paying jobs. Because we are already witnessing today that in the private sector there is a much higher salary for individual experts and in a higher and higher professional preparation so that if we want an efficient, professional state service then we must be prepared and pay an adequate professionally done job of civil servants. What is still a newspaper, which means redefine the passing of a state-run expert exam, which is why so far it has been shown in practice that there are and there are certain doubts about the passing of a professional exam, so the proposal for this law is actually going to rationalise the use of resources above all and to achieve quality, better quality and better success and evaluation of candidates themselves in passing exams. According to this proposal, the state examination should meet in the future from the current general parts, and the laying of a specific part would only be carried out if the specific law prescribed this obligation as an expert test, which means that, for example, for inspection tasks, this expert part of the examination, in fact, would take on certain responsibilities for the implementation of the expert section, would be taken over by individual bodies. It is also proposed to attribute the state exam to two levels, which I believe is good and that it must be known what is the level that is laid down for those who are medium professional devices, and what level of the general part that is laid down for higher and high professional equipment. What is also a newspaper, and it is predicted that in the light of the initiation of the procedure for the violation of official duty, it is proposed that each senior officer, in the event of a breach by a subordinate officer, should inform him of that, in any event, the head of the body within 15 days, and in the event of failure, there is his responsibility for such indemnification, as for a minor violation of the official duty. These proposed changes make up a package of normative solutions that propose to reform the wage system and evaluate work based on the results of work and expertise and will solve some existing dualisms in the application of this law, thus increasing legal certainty. I believe that the proposed changes in one part will indeed contribute to greater efficiency and flexibility of the state service. I would also like to say that these amendments and additions will not require the provision of additional funding in the Republic of Croatia's budget, and that the HDZ Club will support such proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125883	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club is counterpart Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are all aware that we have an administration that is inefficient, that we have a pre-determined state, that we are braked, that it is very difficult to solve any of the things, that any reorganisation, reform, some new legal solutions, do not come to the desired goal that we are talking about here, but in principle there is an even stronger complexity of the system, an increase in the number of employees and ineffectiveness. I hope that these little changes will actually do something in a positive direction, but something will start happening, because as it is now, it's definitely gone on and it's very hard to endure for a long time, because we simply can't drive in a lerry, but we're driving in reverse. I'll always say, in the first place, to the public administration about civil servants, the tenants, but we can also connect it to local agencies, companies, anything, so wherever there's a bureaucratic apparatus, I'm amazed at the possibility of passing legal solutions, which make it possible for a civil servant or a tenant, by a very simple decision to move from one office to another. We have a situation today that you have a case that in one ministry, it's all buried behind cases, that there's a need for a larger number of employees in the other ministry to have literally and extra employees and that we don't normally do that to move people, temporarily to jobs, that need to be done there, so get them back to their place. State service is a state service, wages, wages is a profession. I don't see any reason, that we simply don't go in the direction of bureaucratizing that system, to tear down that shell that he entered and simply agree on the flow of colliding employees in the state service. You today have a situation that you can practically very hard even inside the same body to move people. You have dozens of unions of different, in one service you have, I don't know, five unions, so they can't agree, so they can't, of course, solve these problems and we always tap into the place. On the other hand, let's now simplify something here in Article 76 of the existing law, it is changing, I am interested here, is this to say such a simplified definition in this Article 76(1) whether it is going in the direction and whether it will make that flow easier. Will we be able to move people from one department to another, from one ministry to another ministry, of course to jobs according to the professional provision and salary that the deputy or clerk has. I'd like that answer from the Ministry's representative very clearly here, because if they don't do it again, there is, we're not going to achieve anything. On the other hand, we constantly have this story about a holding bureaucratic apparatus in those services and new employment. And we really have a problem, we're not going to say maybe a word and a too hard to agree on a provision to force civil servants, tenants, on continued education and on additional education from the time we started preparing to join the EU, when we started preparing for it, so until today, every civil servant should have the obligation to prepare himself, work on himself to be ready today and not like this, we have a bureaucratic device that doesn't meet the conditions, can't meet the obligations that are now imposed on us, so that are in this new time, and then we have to take new people. And that's true, we have to take new people because these existing jobs can't work because they're not in any way agreed that these people were preparing to enter the system of additional education, lifelong learning, let's call it what we want and that they're ready today to prepare in that work. And now what about them? Now you have a situation to literally have an office where there are two officers. One official can literally sleep in a chair all day long and do nothing and the other is full of jobs, buried and doesn't know where to be with him and the pay is the same. And the salary is the same, these cases we have, I know of such cases in the Croatian state. I know about cases like that. You have a situation where an officer goes on vacation, goes on sick leave, objects stand because no one has transferred him to another officer, objects stand. Sometimes some projects fall apart because of what the objects are. And you can't do it that way. And as long as we don't make laws that will make it possible to solve it faster and more efficiently, to make that flow faster, we won't achieve the goal. And we won't move. We're not gonna move. It's simply the illogicalness we have, which we are aware of and do not respond to. I don't understand why we keep going round and round in that part. I don't understand that. So there's some improvements here, there's coordination, there's got to be going on, there's got to be something to do, but there's got to be something to cut, there's got to be a little bit stronger, a line, I'm not saying that all these people aren't okay, so all these people can't do the job. Let's do a redesign of all of this, see who's who I can use for, who can give the maximum of his engagement to where he works, and so put people up to speed. And not to break in again, bring laws where we fall into the traps of various negotiations, I don't know what we don't and we're going back in circles and we're going to have to work again and it's going to happen over time and it's still not going to be expensive and we're going to stand. We'll be standing all the time. If there have been some small shifts here, we have to do some things, okay, it's the same employment because of the need for the EU presidency, so absolutely it has to be done, but in general, it has to be done that in the public service, because of a certain increase in the volume of jobs, people from the state service can be moved primarily, and after that, if I have to say a certain period of time to say that people are going to work. It is now in this part of these amendments of the law and offered. We simply have to stop thinking for ourselves about putting on frames, putting on shackles and simply making it impossible for people to do quality work and finally, they become self-inflicted and disappointed, not satisfied with themselves, not satisfied with their workplace, simply getting one negative selection, a negative climate because then they're angry with those who do not work and are not people to blame if they don't. If a clerk doesn't have a job, if he hasn't been given a job, if he doesn't work, it's not his fault. He should've been given a job. He needs to find a job that he can do best, where it is, where the ministry, where it serves. And that's the problem we have all the time, it's always piling up, and for those reasons, we definitely have an inefficient public administration. Here's my real question and the explanation, please for this part, means amending Article 76(1) whether it will enable officers to move faster, more efficiently from one resistor to the other, from one ministry to another, within the public service, in accordance with, of course, the professional preparation and wages that people have, of course, do not need to be disturbed, you can't put a lawyer on the agronomia, but if some work in a ministry needs to now, because of some jobs, to strengthen more lawyers, so we have these lawyers strangely one in the state administration. Then let's pick them, pick them, read them, and put them on it, and let them do the job, and then they go back to their jobs. Thank you very much. We will support these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125885	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125886	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associate, colleague and colleague. So, what I would certainly like to achieve is that our public administration is effective, effective, service to citizens and that citizens get all the services they need, to be one quick and efficient way. On the other hand, we also want to achieve that civil servants, here we are talking about them today, are not to be confused because we have other than civil servants and civil servants and public servants, we also have employees in local self-government units and, of course, all employees of state, local and public companies, I'll talk about it later. So we want to have a just system, a fair uniform, a valuable balance, and that in this system those who work feel satisfied and benefit from that first task, which is primarily for the citizens. What we can safely conclude is that we are a highly bureaucratized country and that perhaps for historical reasons, there may not be enough culture of communication between the state administration and citizens for some others. This can be noticed at every step when, especially if we look at complaints from citizens when they complain about the actions of certain civil servants and, on the other hand, these civil servants are largely neither addressed nor educated, nor know how to do that part of the work, and that is, above all, the communication with citizens. It is true that by introducing a system of e-citizens and informing systems, something has improved in this direction because citizens have been able to get some information or some kind of document that they need. However, this remains a key issue, which is insufficient communication and insufficient information. I'll put it in one example, when I was building the house, so I took all the documents out to a useful license. And after that, it was not clear to me that after that whole process, the houses were still not drawn into the catastrophe. That's when they told me, so I have to pass the law to draw the house into a cadastre. It was not clear to me until the end, but that is what it says about the extent in which both citizens do not know or are not directed what steps they need to take and civil servants due to high red tape are mostly connected to their superiors to the summit and are mostly buried with a number of tasks they have to do daily and then they have little time to work with the citizens. What can, which is crucial, what I have seen in this law and also the proposer has explained in the public debate when he explained the comments, when he spoke of what is now important, he writes here to delete the provisions relating to the classification of jobs and the evaluation of civil servants and substitutors because these legal institutes are planning to be regulated by the Law on Salaries and its implementing regulations. Another thing, it allows for the admission to the state service for a period of more than one year to carry out the undertaken international obligations of the Republic of Croatia or to carry out the tasks of a civil servant who is temporarily directed to carry out the international commitments undertaken. So these are two key things and, of course, the law defines both the passing of an expert state exam and special cases where a professional exam must be conducted, the payment of an expert exam is regulated and these are some of the things that are being passed. However, in this explanation, the following sentence is crucial: “The reasons cited justify the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Service Officers because they do not tolerate the delay until the adoption of a new comprehensive Law on State and local officials, which, in the proposal for a normative activity plan for 2019, takes much more time to make and pass this comprehensive law. ” This is quite true, it takes a lot of time, however, some time has passed. And now the question is raised, I personally express, I am very skeptical that this law will be passed, there will be very strong resistance because we now have a situation that except for the state services that an unequal system in state services, I mean what my colleague Hrg mentioned about the different degree of burden of individual officials, different tasks and the way they do their jobs. And here I mean specifically the units of local self-government that their representative bodies can bring in independent amounts or the size of salaries for their employees. There are certain restrictions, however, these restrictions are not such as to enable a balanced or balanced system, so we have a message from local self-government who has that and who doesn't have that little and tightens their wages. Here, for example, take just local officials, so the mayor, the mayor, it's amazing, you're amazing that some officials have up to 3.4 times the salary of their colleagues and they're practically doing nothing more than they are. And just so you know, that's in my community case, and me when I was chief, we have people called themselves so-called. Volunteers, although they are not volunteers they receive compensation, however, that fee when compared to the salaries of individual commissioners is far, far lower. And in that sense, inequality needs to be taken into account in the future and I think that if this law succeeds, if this new law you're preparing succeeds, if it can solve these problems, then I'm taking off your hat and I'm going to vote for that law first. Now, I would like not to be longer, so this law in this part of it which is passed and regarding employment related to the Presidency of the EU Council, if necessary, is necessary, which we are now doing. It would have been good if we had organized things before, if they had prepared for it before, but here we are now back in the situation as they say there are always no more urgent things there are only people who are late. The Advocate General for Gender Equality pointed to a problem that can be read from this Amendment to the Law, so it is that there is an obstacle to the reception and termination of employment on the basis of the conduct or adoption of sanctions for criminal offences. She warned that, of course, persons who have been prosecuted for domestic violence, there are no obstacles for them, but she warned of one other thing, if a person has already been admitted to the state service and after that proceedings are being conducted, and this procedure ends with a sanction that it will not be, for example, suspended on condition, which the law then provides, in those cases unless a judicial verdict has been handed down, or his sentence has been replaced by work for general good, then the person has no obstacle, then continue to work. However, if the procedure proves or demonstrates that during the reception of the State Service, the procedure has been conducted but be careful now, regardless of the sanctions, he stops working. They're not exactly, they're not fair provisions and these things and they've got that in public consultation I've noticed it, you must have it, and I'm asking you to run it, take care of it. And one more thing, here's the end of my debate, and it's about the very procedures of the contest, we don't have to, we don't have to close our eyes and say that's not the case, the competitions are being conducted on the political key. Public service jobs usually get political, politically I'll say like-minded people or members of political options that are in power, be careful that's the rule. Again, I'll tell you from a personal example, so someone doesn't say I made something up. I received my time, watch out I got a solution about the admission to the state service, the solution I got, all the procedures I passed and the testing and all, afterwards a fellow here sitting in the assembly with us, boasted in a society as he prevented me from hiring, because after that I was verbally informed that the tender had been cancelled. I am true, at the time I reacted very bitterly, the lady who told me that news I can't say that I was offended but I was, I was very bitter, I apologized to her later, but it's possible, I tell you from a personal example, many have been through and on these things, the Ministry and we all have to work to make such things happen in the future and here in the public debate it's noticed. When a tender is cancelled, it must be explained very clearly why the tender has been annulled, because it is the easiest way to eliminate it when other barriers have been prevented. As far as this legislative proposal is concerned, it's a bit of an awkward situation, I can't right now, if I say I won't support it, why won't I support it, if the need for employment is for a certain time because of the Presidency of the Council, the EU Council, then it's a need, what to do, and I think I'll support this legislative proposal in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125887	Thank you, too, for continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, next on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU is a colleague of Vesna Pusic. Here you go, colleague Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Therefore, the proposed amendments in this document have a partial link with the Croatian Presidency of the European Council and in that part are rational and make sense in our opinion, so this refers to a contract for a certain period of time that can now last for more than 1 year without calling a new tender if such deadlines and project requirements are and refers to the fact that civil servants can be moved to other appropriate places in accordance with the job requirement. It would be actually terrifying and catastrophic if we had so many civil servants that we could hold one European Council presidency without additional powers. None of these countries are able, and especially fewer EU members, we will also need help from Finland, which is with us in this and Romania, which are with us in the three that are forming for the presidency. We will also need help from Brussels in this sense that we will have to hold some meetings there as most of the smaller countries have done and of course we will need additional people because these are huge additional tasks. It is simply in those 6 months that one part of the EU will run Croatia, so it would be actually terrifying that under normal circumstances we have as many employees as we will need in these 6 months. We therefore consider it logical and rational to be introduced as a newspaper. Moreover, certain flexibility in the deployment of civil servants to tasks that are at a certain point acute or current or require the most engagement is in itself good and should be permanently retained in this Regulation in some dimensions. However, in addition to these logical and rational ones, according to the GLAS and HSU Club, there are also a number of questionable changes. I will give some examples in Article 3. So far, a government service plan has been published and published in one daily list with national circulation, other words in one newspaper that everyone at each newsstand in every smallest place where the newspaper can be sold, it is abolished and will now be published only in the National Journal and on the Ministry's website. This is considered to be a reduction in transparency and unnecessary since the cost is zero and the daily newspaper is practically available to everyone, I would very much like to see who goes through the National Journal or the Ministry's network pages as it looks like the schedule for receiving into the state service, it is simply not realistic in these conditions may one day be, but in these conditions it is not realistic if we take into account the whole of Croatia, and not just Zagreb and the big cities and therefore something makes the procedure and this whole process is more transparent and practically nothing, we think it should be kept and that this is not a good, good move at this moment. For example, Article 16 is deleted as regards the evaluation of civil servants, Article 17 no longer lists jobs except for the exclusive management posts. Why? The explanation is that it will be in the Law on Payments, it is a very bad and illogical solution, because the Law on Payments should be managed, respected and implemented precisely by this law, and not vice versa. Therefore, in the Law on Payments, the classification, which is in the Law on civil servants, should determine how many civil servants in certain categories have salaries as well as in the Law on civil servants, it is certainly necessary to assess, i.e., clear criteria, which must be precisely in this Law on civil servants, it is entirely illogical for these criteria to be in the Payments Act. This evaluation and the criteria for assessing the work of civil servants, however much, I agree with the missing, problem, big job for superiors, it is embarrassing to give people bad grades, all the observations of this kind stand there and this may and may need to be improved, but not by moving from the Law on Civil Service in the Payments Act. These assessments are also the basis for promotion and pay but also for other forms of stimulation, so, schooling, participation in various international and domestic seminars, therefore, a whole series of things that must be an integral part of what is stimulating, so to say, for good and high-quality civil servants who do their job well and in the Law of Salaries, can only be conjecture relating to financial stimuli. But criteria and classifications must certainly be in this law. Article 18 once again confirms the removal of a clear classification of jobs from the Law on Civil Servants, which, for the above reasons, is considered to be extremely bad, that, in fact, from the consequences, the cause is defined, instead of the cause, by the consequences. In Article 27, the fulfilment of the conditions for progress is also linked to the Law on Salaries, we find it wrong, it must be cut with the quality of the performance of the job, with the schooling and similar elements that make up the fulfilment of the conditions for advancement, and then the results are higher wages. Not only but it's one result. So, the Law on Payments is the result of that, the Law on Payments is a derivative and should also be a derivative of the Law on Civil Servants. How the criteria and conditions for progress that have to do with the quality of work, which have to do with knowledge, which have to do with diligence, which have to do with the simple effect and performance at work, can be regulated by the Payments Act. Where the Law on Salaries pays itself one element of stimulant, that is, one element of the result should be such better work and a better effect. It is interesting that Articles 29 and 30 are regulated by the procedure of punishment in the event of minor injury to official duty. That's not being passed on to the Payments Act. And we come to an absurd situation, where they separate into two different laws, rewards and punishments. Rewards, for good work are regulated by the Law on Salaries, and penalties for bad work and bad workplace behaviour are defined by the Law on Civil Servants. We don't think there's any logic here and it doesn't, it just makes chaos, it separates sanctions from stimulation for the same type of job. So, one job, one man can work very well, so he gets rewarded or wrong so he gets sanctioned, but to separate it into 2 special laws, really, there's no logic. Third, another element is that defines art. 31. that there is no longer an unsatisfactory rating, which has so far produced the effect of ending employment. Whether it's being transposed into the Law of Payments or in some other way, it's not clear here, but de facto, the only thing that made sense in that evaluation in extreme situations was that. These are very rarely used, anyone who has worked in these ministries and in the state service knows that this is a very rare case, because people are simply uncomfortable and if it isn't some extreme case they won't be used. But precisely because of these extreme cases, such a possibility should be preserved and maintained here in law. In practice, Article 32 is equalized by civil servants and tenants, what are the differences? The tenants don't have to take the state exam, they don't have practice status, all right. However, what is interesting, and for which there are no arguments, it is that, while civil servants are being tested on the workplace by written means, the tenants do not, they do not have the obligation to pass that test or write a written test, which opens up a vast space of potential corruption. So, especially in conditions in which you almost equate officials, civil servants and, civil servants and tenants, which means that in the perspective it leads to, as I say politely, mobility between those two categories, so in the perspective it leads to people being able to move gradually from the category of furniture to the category of officials in which Transparency International tells us that the fight against corruption is in the sunset, that we have a growing problem, not an increasingly minor problem with this evil. We remove one, or we don't introduce one, ah, not perfect, but at least how much verifiable a criterion, which is the elementary written test and we leave everything to the interview. We know what talking or interview means. That is, it is subject to a high degree of arbitration, even when it comes to professors who do so on a regular basis, let alone when it comes to people who do not have a day’s job and day’s obligation. So, this testing is certainly something that should be kept or held for the tenants as well. And no more grading the work of the tenant, that's what it looks like. 33. The evaluation is defined by the implementing regulation, proposed here, and not regulated by the Law, it also reduces, as it would say, the predictability and safety of the criteria used in this evaluation and we believe that this is bad. So, we believe that this law puts a car in front of a horse, and that won't work very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125889	Thank you. And the last debate on behalf of the MPs' club is a debate from counterpart Arsen Bauk in front of SDP's club, please welcome colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125890	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, the esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues, looking at the calendar, we are at the end of January 2019, looking at the HS pages in February 2009, the HS discussed the proposal for a Law on the Payments of State Officials with the Final Proposal of the Law, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since December 2008. It's been more than 10 years and now we're discussing a bill that says that once this law that HS discussed 10 years ago is going to be proposed. To make the matter more absurd, the then proposal of the Civil Service Payments Act went into procedure as an emergency procedure to return it back in 2009, as if it had taken off the emergency procedure and returned it as a first reading, and then the Government did not propose a second reading from 2009 to 2011. After that, the government came in which I was a member, who also did not propose such a law, which is four years. Afterwards there was another government that did not propose the Law, so there was another government that is formally the same government, the one that is now, but has experienced certain political changes, neither has it proposed the Law. I'm sure by the end of this government's term, we probably won't, unless we discuss it, but we won't adopt it, so maybe we will. Then the debate was about whether the salary of civil servants should be influenced by the internship or the rating because the story of equal pay for equal work falls into the water the moment we have 0.5% per year of employment and then if we do so, then if you do the same job, then the one who has 20 years of standing more than the other has 10% higher salary and has no equal salary for equal work. And on the other hand, if the assessment were to be introduced as a pay criterion, then, on the one hand, we expose officials to the possibility of political arbitration, or by political persons, because the leaders of the Ministry of Political Persons, that those who are a little closer to the political option, which is in line with the political option of the minister from whatever party they come from, always becomes something, something better goes on. So this dilemma, which was then, on whether the equal salary for equal work or whether the internship should be taken as a pay criterion and on the other hand, the impact of the assessment on the salary level, is not resolved today, because, of course, by abolishing the provisions of 0.5% per year of internship and putting in, therefore, only the estimates at the height of the salary would significantly damage older officials who were pre-retired. So we would have a direct, therefore, they would indeed be, indeed, significantly damaged. This dilemma, I don't know how it's going to be resolved and whether there's a political view about it when we're not talking about civil servants' salaries. Therefore, in this Law, it is proposed to exclude the provisions concerning evaluation, the classification of jobs and wages, but in a way that states in the transitional provisions that they remain in force. Transitional provisions of the Law on civil servants' salaries have been in force since 2001, so for 18 years in our legal system, we have a provision to adopt the Law on Payments and that until then the power is a temporary solution. To make things more plastic, the regulation that prescribes coefficients has experienced 47 changes. I've proposed them somewhere 15, and it seems to me that the discussions on the text of that regulation every time look like the union's discussions with the government where in this case the role of the union has a resolute ministry that proposes special jobs for their employees because they are precisely, they are particularly important what again from the level of this ministry may seem really important, and in this case the Ministry of Administration, and I believe that it is also today, then it has a role to at least be careful that it doesn't go to some extreme, but since the Ministry of Administration is slightly smaller, this ministry is something bigger, then usually very difficult to resist it but well. Therefore, as regards provisions that refer to the adoption of the Law on Salaries. So I'm not sure that the system that is now in place is going to change easily and that it will succeed in negotiating with the unions, but we'll see. As for this concrete proposal to amend and supplement the law, I would divide it into three segments. One is the one I was just talking about, so it's about wages and evaluations, the other is about easier employment in the state service, and I think you'd agree with the lady. Pusic, when he says that it is illogical to expect that the same number of employees should be added to the text of the law when we are chaired by the EU Council in a normal situation, therefore, it is logical to do so, but I think that some of the provisions that would make it impossible for us to in some way justify the possibility of hiring in matters concerning the presidency and then at one point, such officials to switch to jobs that have nothing to do with it, so in that sense, certain control mechanisms should be a little more precise. Also, this provision in, I'm going to talk about articles of the basic law, not amendments, so in article 44 whether it should continue to be published in one daily list or not, I don't see why it's being abolished, I don't think it's something that really bothers the ministry. The fact is, therefore, that in a completely new way, the state exam or the state expert exam is defined, and so on, I think it can also be a positive change. The Directors of the Management Board of the Ministry shall be added in Article 74a. Since this matter is among other things governed by the State Administration System Act where it is prescribed that these are current ministerial assistants, is it in fact an announcement that that system of directors will be restored and that the post of assistant minister as a political place will be abolished because this is another significant change in the announcement, so other than the Law on Payments, the new system of evaluation, we have a new system. It would actually be a new system of state administration, but I think this solution is more correct. So if you're willing to place people in the post of assistant minister, so with a political decision, let's keep it that way. Some assistants have stayed, and when our government changed, some have stayed and when our government came, they have not changed their status. If they come from the state service, they have the right to return to the state service, it's only now a matter of appointment, so I think the existing system is more correct, so let's keep it that way, I don't think it should be changed. Also, there is a significant newspaper in Article 76 to facilitate the transfer that can also be accepted. What is a significant change is in Article 98, but it seems so vague. It is therefore considered necessary to supplement Article 98 that it is an easy violation of the official duty and not to submit a written proposal to initiate the procedure for minor violation of the official duty. Article 98 is therefore proposed to add paragraph 11 so that the officer responsible makes it easy to breach the official duty if the head of the body does not warn that an official has committed an easy violation of his official duties. Well, did I do a good interpretation? But in that case, if a case were to be initiated against a superior officer if he hadn't initiated an easy violation of his official duty, that would mean that we were actually talking about the reason before. So I'm not sure it's necessary to punish someone because he didn't initiate a violation of official duty if there's a way of making a proposal because then it would turn out that if you submitted a proposal and it wasn't an easy violation of official duty, then you should be punished for insinuating in some way that your subordinate committed an easy violation of official duty and the official court or head didn't so determined. So that's just one perpetum cell phone, was it before the chicken or the egg? If a senior officer is to be punished, should a competent officer be punished for not causing an easy violation of his official duty, and he considers that it was not an easy violation of his official duty because he is not the one who decides whether it is an easy violation of his official duty, but rather a court of law. So there's, there's a little doubt about it. I understand that there's this intensity that in some way increases the responsibility of the superiors to protect their subordinates, it could be an intensity, so let's formulate it a little bit that some other conditions need to be met. So, that's a little questionable to me. What's actually the main grudge, at least on my part, the bill's proposal, Art. 138, because there were often debates in the public whether officials in part of their working relationship in their rights as employees, applying the provisions of the Labour Act, and in some ways always held that due to certain specificities of the state service, certain rights should be prescribed differently, rather than the general rules on work, but that the general rules on labour are not applicable now and for the passengers, but to apply the specific rules applicable to officials, it goes in the opposite direction of the discussions that were before and I consider it unnecessary. So, in some ways, it reduces the specificity of the state service and it's not really what you do anymore, it's where you work. So, I don't see what a person who's a substitute, who works at the Ministry, does differently than someone who works anywhere else. Let's just say there are specificities for the officers, but what are the specificities for the tenants? Therefore, that provision, I ask that that provision be reconsidered once more. So, if you're going to change your working status, you might consider applying to employees, current officials who don't work in something called Kor Business Ministry, so they work in other parts, to apply the General Labour Regulations, and not to apply official so on. they do not apply work, but so-called. official relations. Given the large number of transitional provisions and since it is a first reading, I am in a sense clear in intensity and political determination, of a measure the political will of the proposer, but remains a large number of issues that need to be resolved. In particular, what would a new system of civil servants’ salaries be different from the current system? That's the basic question. So we have several variables that are present. One is the basic pay, so that's the general coefficient. The second is some sort of add-on, given the jobs you do and someone else. The third is, and the fourth is the evaluation and the legislator, that is, part of the Regulation, so the government will need a very, very careful assessment of the extent to which these elements will be matched. The current situation is that we have a coefficient and that we have a working internship and certain special rights in the Collective Contract. Whether this will be prescribed differently, you should see, but be assured that every proposal that goes on to change the current situation will come to some criticism of those who do not benefit from it, and then the question is whether the government will decide for some tactical reason not to touch anything, not to... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125891	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. That's what we're done with the debates on behalf of the MPs' club. Now we start with individual debates. The first is a colleague of Stjepan Curaj, here's a colleague of Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125892	I thank the Vice President, here after the club debates, I would also sum up something I've been saying in front of the club. Of course, the intensity of this Law is to everyone, I think it is clear that everyone in the final line and welcomed it because as he is said to be proposing this, these amendments as a result or condition of the upcoming obligations of the Republic of Croatia regarding the Presidency of the EU Council, by taking international commitments in this respect. We need to know that the public must know that it's not a small business, that it's thousands of people, hundreds of meetings, technical assumptions that cost, I think France just spent about EUR 170 million on its presidency, some countries around 70 to 100. So that requires resources, time, of course, human resources first of all, but also other resources, and that's what we certainly have to do to the best possible extent, we have to show ourselves there, simply as a matter of fact, well to take advantage of that opportunity which, after the Malta is not full of six years, or that after not seven years of membership, will, in fact, welcome us. What I have said earlier is that the greatest meaning and the greatest leap, or the greatest content of the changes, is going precisely in the ability to hire employees who will be referred to these meetings and at meetings in Brussels within individual ministries and above all, to be able to employ them for more than a year if we need to know that we are already starting meetings by committees, by different bodies, by the end of the second month already defining certain topics, already now we need to know what we want and where we want to do and what our priorities are, so we are already waiting for this job and we are already working very hard on it. So, just the chairmanship, we know that we also have that European, that, that mini presidency of three countries that are chairing, let's say, so that's, that's the present, future and the third one that's coming to the presidency, so absolutely, I think it's Romania, Finland, the Republic, I think it's absolutely something to bring, of course, to the Treaty on this body, in the engagement of certain other companies, etc. here, by this law, I also think that we all welcomed ourselves to be edited, introduced, or announced by this new model of evaluation and advancement, and that is what I was saying, it is certainly that we must observe the Law on civil servants and this law which declares that it will be about the evaluation and advancement of the civil servants themselves in two models. Just one model is design, the other is in the already based relationship of valorisation and evaluation. In this basis, I will repeat again, so absolutely I don't see any reason why we don't introduce a single competition modeling a national prom that's being conducted quarterlyly, which has a ranking list of all those who applied, from which rank lists can later be withdrawn so-called. People, invite them to talk and to certain conditions. Boding that is not only appreciated and the result of this contest or testing but also prices and assessments, the average that a person had in his studies and meeting a certain level of education that is needed for this job because it is not a matter of whether someone studied for 10 years, 5 years, had an average of 4.5, or 2.7, can nobody say that anyway, in the end line of our university, the results of the state graduation and the grades are also required in the course of the enrolment. And it doesn't matter anymore, so then high school again, too, and it doesn't matter. But when you go that step further and you need to be prepared for the labour market there it's no big deal, the paper is peppers from this country, from another country or any college. Not to mention some rank of points and certain colleges where we can't play silly too and say that it is no matter what end the economy in Zagreb or some university or somewhere else out of the country. Well, it's not the same because it's not the same thing to go to college. Then it can't be the same because it doesn't have the same norm. Of course we also have university rankings and world etc., and we should have it inside the country to know that somewhere diploma is worth something. When someone ended up in a certain university or whatever, a certain direction, that it was worth something, why, because there are such conditions, because it doesn't matter. And it was known even inside of college at some confessions, when you passed some exams and then, that's when you got a good grade, that really was worth something. That's lost. Today it's just paper, goodbye, we're all the same. Well, we're not all the same, and it can't be the same to everyone and it's not the same for citizens who pay that service when we talk about the state administration, and it's a service to citizens who need to be more efficient and economical, or as cheap as possible. It doesn't matter who solves and how he solves what objects. And that's why it's the first part that we need the selection process, the mode of employment, the more objectivity, the more statistics, the less subjectivity in the decision and the ranking list of points, the more the testing, the more the grades, how much they carry, how much they don't know what else and then only part of the oral interview that should also have a certain weight but can't only be crucial. And then we'll be able to talk more seriously about it when we get to this second part that's mentioned here and it's about grading and progressing by which models as well. Today we have a system where the fool is the one who works and works because he gets the same pay as the one who cares. And more importantly, when a sensitive object comes in, when something needs to be done that's urgent, important, then you'll give it to the one who does, who knows, that job you'll trust and not to the one who doesn't. And they have the same pay. And you need as little as possible, you can't, you can't possibly remove subjectivism, it's impossible, we shouldn't be slaves just to statistics, but always quality and quantity. And the number of objects. Well, to some extent, you are sometimes judged by the users themselves. I now heard from the citizens after the opening presentation and they said that but we have questions where it is arranged and where most solutions are negatively evaluated. Of course these citizens are angry, threatening, doing whatever they do, that they won't be very positive about that person. And that's what we need to consider. But there's really a possibility somewhere that there aren't so many negative solutions that it's about advisory services, about rights, about getting certain papers, etc., where it's really funny, receiving means something. So people who pay for that service, not feel like the last piece of trash, when they come in so scared that someone doesn't look at them wrong, then they're told to march out there, etc. And we have that, unfortunately, less and less, I hope, and we do. And we have so many valuable, so many good employees who just need a chance to work and show it. And then valorize it. And then it creates a story about 30% surplus and 15% lack of employees. And that's exactly what we need to do, as long as the labour market doesn't help. And that's why I just think that this unique competition and the system of testing that is independent can do it externally would remove a lot of problems and a lot of any speculation or I don't know what it is that we're not talking about the very quality that's going to come out there. What my colleague Bauk mentioned, I've been following his exposure a little bit now, related to the application of a superior who didn't report a colleague's irregularity here, but I think it might be possible, so that's Article 29 of these amendments, and it applies to Article 98, I think it should just be added if this previous procedure is confirmed by the failure. So if someone didn't report for an easy violation of official duty, someone established to others, his superior that he didn't report the person here in the application, and that person responds if everything in the court really determines the violation of that light official duty, then we can talk about the responsibility of that authority, this is how his assessment was that it was not, someone estimated that, of course, the one who was superior, is always his last, but we also protect that person that when the official court found that there was an easy violation of the official duty to both sanction and the person who did not report it, and it was necessary because it was unequivocally and unequivocally found that it was the same. This may therefore be something that could only be added to that paragraph 11 or Article 29 of the amendment and the addition of that injury. Absolutely someone to tell me, protecting things is certainly not desirable to ensure the independence of the precisely superiors not to create negative circumstances or some, means when someone has to report something that knows that he will personally respond and that he puts his business in question and then there will be less pressure than those directly subordinated to the application than when there is no such thing, so she turns out to be who we're going to put aside, we're going to keep an eye on anyone. So there's little to protect those superiors in such a way that they match the same, but if they determine.../incomprehensible/... Here's another one, I hope you'll accept this proposal in this first reading. I thank you for your further legal solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125893	Thank you, for your individual discussion, we have three replicas, colleague Maras, colleague Mrsic and colleague Tudjman. The first one's a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125894	Thank you very much, Mr. Curaj, in your debate you have touched many interesting things that would be supported because since unfortunately our administration is once organized in some situations, radio, not very often people get, get the same salaries and the same rewards and we can agree, I have the same experience, that it is very difficult to work out a ranking list especially when this kind of evaluation is what it is now, all have excellent grades, so it is very difficult to rank and reward those who are really the best. But what I think is one of the bigger problems, is what people are most sensitive about, is that it's incarceration or employment in state-owned companies and in the government, so I'm curious to know that this competition of 30 people at the Environmental Protection Fund is just 9 HNS employees and one HNS chief's wife is employed. What is the predisposition of the HNS to find their jobs right there?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125895	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125896	I thank you, so we can agree on the first part, and I'm glad that you agree with me, and just to remove any suspicion that someone is something or that they're denied because they're a member of something or they're favored because they're a member, and we don't know whether they're both, so they're neither good, they're not different. This is because a member of something must not be denied access to certain conditions guaranteed by the Constitution. This is the kind of thing you need to do. I don't know if the subject is so not, which are numbers, which are not and as far as I know we can see these finds that it's like everything's okay, but surely it's not good, to me it doesn't sound good, but that's exactly why this proposal I made is good. Let's put on a ranking list, let's all go for a test, let's see that everyone can look at 500 out of 1,000 people on a unique test every three months to be conducted, ranked, what their scores were and points and so on, then we'll eliminate it so that it'll be 30 out of anything and any party, but then it's known and why and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125897	Thank you, colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125898	Thank you very much, fellow Curaj you spoke very nicely about how this should look in the state administration, and you are aware that it is not so and you are aware that one of the reasons why our people are going out of Croatia is that now it is happening in the Environmental Protection Fund, and it is probably happening in other parts of the state administration, that party people are being hired and that it is the entanglement that is clearly seen and clearly that you cannot avoid any rank lists, no evaluations, competitions and all others because here is formally legal but it is not moral. And as long as that philosophy doesn't change that the state administration can't enlist party people to that end, there's not one way you're going to avoid it. It is clear that if someone is a member of the party, that he should not be banned from employment, but that ten people from the CNS in the Environmental Fund have just been employed, however, is a little too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125899	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125900	I thank you, so you can and should. I don't want to hear it's been like that forever there's nothing you can do about it. So we talked about education, we all knew what to do, we all knew how to still have political determination and responsibility. And surely, that it must not matter at all be any interdependence of a person, religious, national, appearance, he must be literally a number on paper, not any way to judge by his or her own affinities. And that's when we make a professional, unburdened state administration, where they are really employed by criteria that are clear and.../incomprehensible/... available. And then again you say there will be doubts, that there will be doubts, I think it will be, but it needs to be done in a maximum transparent way and this proposal that I'm doing is exactly what I'm proposing is just going in that direction, and I hope that you will support it, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125901	And the last replica of your presentation, Comrade Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125902	Thank you, colleague Curaj I agree with your thesis that we should have an effective state administration and that quality officers and tenants. But I'm not sure how much this, this conspiracy that we should call two, three or several times a year to open a competition for the entire state administration can work because it's being embossed with the social mobility that we don't actually have, so that we can then deploy the highest quality people across not only Zagreb but also other places. On the other hand, the election should give priority to those who have better formal conditions, but I think it is one, that can be just that criterion, is one extreme, but that should be crucial to be competent, or to test competence because one man can have excellent grades but has no certain competences needed for a place in the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125903	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125904	Yeah, I agree that's why it should be one of the conditions, how many points I don't know, but surely it doesn't need to be ignored, I mean, I don't think it's a solution. Of course it's important competence, that important work experience, we're not just talking about interns here, why don't we bring in the state administration of someone who has shown up already in some labour market or in some other business, so it doesn't mean a resume anyway, we have head hunting, we have a world of markets that absolutely elaborated to the smallest detail only in the state service it's nothing, just paper and go to testing and nothing special. The tests I'm proposing, just to clarify it would be at the level, so I said actually who's the state's prom in units, the centers of the state administration, unique, let them go every three months, and then they're especially competing, the ones that have passed those tests, competed for the competition, especially where they want to work, where there's, where a particular contest is being called. But the condition that he can compete with that competition is that he's ranked on the list, the single list, of course, depending on where, how much interest he has who's gonna sit... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125905	Thank you. Next individual debate, counterpart Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, this is one of the laws that's been most unprepared for HS since I've been in HS. This Law which should not have come to HS at all because, first of all, the Law on State Administration is also violated where it is very clear that the laws should be prepared according to the unique methodology of work or preparation of the Law for the HS. We also have an art. 100th, I think. 170. The Rules of Procedure of HS, which makes it very clear that the Law which has so many amendments so far, should come into an integrated new version, not as amendments and additions to the existing Law. This Law has been changed countless times and very much, I think even the best legal experts can't manage it, in which way, which part refers to the previous version, which refers to the current version and this Law shouldn't have come like this to HS. Why he comes to HS, it should be asked by the ruling, but I believe it is so that now in the past two years that are now ahead of us, when we are chairing the EU, as many people in the state administration who will then remain, therefore, will not leave the state administration. It is also against the law to adopt this law because the law must be in public consultation for at least 30 days. That's what the attorney for information warned her about. This Law was held for 15 days at a public hearing, therefore, was injured and the Law that made it very clear that it is necessary for the Law to be consulted for at least 30 days. The third or fourth thing why I think this is one of the most unprepared laws that came into this HS is to refer to the nonexistent law. Therefore, it refers to the State Service Payments Act which has not yet seen the light of the day in HS, it is still in preparation and the question is whether it will eventually come to HS because this Law has also done one thing that is completely unacceptable, which is that it has separated public and civil servants. The employer of public and civil servants is one, the state of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the separation of the Law on Salaries by two different laws, one on public wages, the other on salaries in the state administration, leads to the creation of two levels of employees in the Republic of Croatia, so one in the state administration, one in the public administration. But this law goes one more way that is entirely to blame. Instead of having a unique law that regulates working relations between everyone in the Republic of Croatia, which is the Law in the Work, which has so far regulated the rights and obligations of subsistence officers in the State Administration, we and the subsistences are taking them out of the Labour Act and putting them in the Law on State Administration. So, formally, they become civil servants, too, which is not the law's intensity. Look at countries that have longer democratic history than we, where civil servants are protected by the Law, they are apolitical, not come with political will, but come to places with their ability, with their quality and stay at those jobs until retirement and it is not thousands, two thousand, but it is a much smaller number of people who are those who guard the level of state administration. It is those who, regardless of how the ruling set is changed, are those who keep the level of state administration always the same, and they have nothing to do with politics, nor with rulings, nor with opposition, have nothing to do with love, come about their ability and quality, and these people need protection, and it is the Law on civil servants, not what we have right now. What we have now is the attempt by the ruling to arrest as many people in the state administration as possible, because so far it has not been possible under the existing law. It is also seen by the fact that the reception plan is suddenly moving out of public discourse, so it will be published on websites, so it will be published in radio and newspapers, but will not be published in public newspapers. The reason is likely to hide who will be admitted to what part of the state administration. It also hides another big trap in this Law, which is that it expands the possibility of obtaining or giving the Treaty of Action. I note that the Treaty of Action is a contract in which you as an employer to an employee who is not your employee, allowing him to work with you with his machines, laptops... In the state administration, it was used to the maximum. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's remember the Treaty on the Functioning of the Drivers, and some of them ended up in prison now because of that, and the Treaty on Action in the State Administration was taking advantage of itself against the law, and we're expanding this even further. There was at least one dam, if it... can't be more than 2% of the total wage mass. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we move that too, which means that these Treatys of Action will be mass and that not only will they be hired for European jobs, but they will also be employed under the Treaty of Action. I note that the Treaty of Action is more expensive, that it is much cheaper to have a Labour Treaty and that it is something that should be promoted in the state administration if we as a state have defined that there is and that we must promote the security of citizens, and the Treaty on indefinitely is something that is absolutely desirable that we have in the Republic of Croatia. The state administration must be apolitical. As much as this sounds like some kind of... Or someone who was a minister, so he knows what the government looks like on the inside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as long as the state administration does not become apolitical, as long as the civil servants are not those who will have their dignity and greatness they will continue to be subject to attacks by citizens who are not satisfied with the service but will be subject to corruption and, as we know, Croatia is sinking on that corruption list instead of going up. And she flossula of this law that we need the law to hire the people we need for the EU presidency. So don't we have those 800 or 1,000 people in the state public administration who will bear the burden of the EU presidency? I note that the state has received 1.2 billion euros from the European Social Fund for an additional education of 800 people in the state administration who will learn languages during that time and all that we need for the EU presidency. I wonder how many people have gone through this project, how much funds have been used and the EU presidency is at our door. It is clear that we need 100, according to some estimates of 180 to 200 people in Brussels who will bear the highest burden of EU presidency, but we have these 280 or 200 people in Croatia, in the state administration, and I do not believe that we have to hire now some party arrests that we are going to send to Brussels to earn their daily living there and that they are not doing the job that we should do. No one can convince me that this law makes it impossible for that to happen. I think that there are people in the state administration who can bear the burden of the EU presidency and that all that is important for the EU at the time of that Presidency can be rented. Consider Ireland, which reduced the cost of the EU presidency by more than 50% by using state residences, which did not pay rent, by rationalising the costs of catering and everything else. And I think that what the sponsors found, and I think that in Croatia there would be companies that would be happy to sponsor certain events that would happen in those six months. Therefore, these are all the things that the state and one responsible government had already had to do. This law will not lead to a political state administration, it will lead to further entanglement in the state administration and even greater mistrust of citizens with the state administration and will certainly make young people come out of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125907	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. A colleague of the Voice, a colleague of Maras and a colleague of Sagar. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125908	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrsic, you are absolutely right when you realize that actually observing this bill without a proposal of the Law on the salaries of civil servants is actually groundless and below each level. The more you exempt one of the most important parts regarding the KOR system and the contents of this law from this bill, the classification of jobs, evaluation, and progress. You're throwing it all out of this law and we don't have a chance to parallel this bill to follow how you're going to regulate that question as you say by the Law of Payments to civil servants. The question arises why, in fact, what is the point of passing this law. I hope that it is not the only purpose of opening up a space for the employment of people who will work on the chairmanship of the Croatian Council, and even less to enable the employment of directors in the ministry, directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125909	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Miranda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125910	Thank you very much. Comrade Voter, that this law leads to one terrible legal uncertainty and a legal hole in the system because you move the evaluation from this law, you move everything that is related to the salary. And I wonder by what law then wages will be paid in the civil service because this law regulated how it will be done. You are now moving from this law and the new law is not in the parliamentary procedure, so I'd say 15 days we'll arrange it, but it's outside the Parliament, waiting when it comes to Parliament. And that's something that's inadmissible, you create a legal vacuum, and you allow the arbitration of ministers and of all those who are the heads of the government's body to arbitrarily evaluate their people or to favor certain parts of them, and some of them are chicane.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125911	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125912	Thank you very much. You mentioned one thing to my colleague Mrsić, and it is still a problem for people to be employed in jobs, for example, by the tenant with the contract of action, and then they do not have a regulated status. But what worries me more is that they're hiring so-called. Counselors, all ministers almost have special advisors who receive 10 thousand kuna monthly fees. For example, the prime minister has a special advisor to this Bath gentleman who has moved from the MUP, for 10,000 advisers from the prime minister and 5,000 gets paid in HDZ. So I get the impression that ministers are using those positions to boost revenue in some case by their party associates, seeing this reporter from fellow Horvat. So you're using an act contract to basically hire your party friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125913	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125914	Comrade Maras, you're absolutely right because clearly through this law you've been trying to do what HDZ has been doing for years, and that's that the state administration is collapsing during their rule of staff, which then stays there. What all countries do democratically, to know that with one administration comes a certain part of the staff, and when that administration goes away, they leave with them. This law absolutely enables those who came with the HDZ government to remain in the ministries permanently and what is also important, when we talk about Zagreb Holding where you are in Zagreb, that it is known that people working on the contract on the part, know who will get the contract for a certain time and clearly and everyone knows who will get the contract indefinitely, because the testing is false, because everyone knows that a certain number of people are giving solutions to this testing and that is what bothers the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125915	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, Comrade Sagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125916	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Mrsic, the next item on the agenda is the Law on the financing of the political activity of the electoral promotion. So this law, regardless of these changes, could now be called the Law on the Organisation of Political Activity of Election Promotion, because indeed, when you talk about political entanglement in history, we have seen it. However, I would like to point to another problem that you mentioned to the fourth working population in the Republic of Croatia is working for a certain time. It was warned by the International Monetary Fund. We will even increase that number by this law, and out of 270 thousand young people, who have contracts, 60% therefore, each of the three, the two have a contract for a certain time. It's not a good situation, this law will just, this law will only help, so to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125917	Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125918	As far as this provision is concerned, this provision is put here to allow people who should not enter the state administration, under the hat of European affairs and the jobs that should be done during our Presidency in Europe, to enter the ministries, to enter the state administration and then to become and remain in the ministries by some strange things and work. It would be much smarter if we gave these young people a contract for an indefinite period of time, if we knew they were quality, but here we are going back to that problem, the quality of how young people are elected to the ministries, as they choose, here in Zagreb Holding, where it is a public secret, to know who will get the contract for a certain time, because a few days before he got the answers to the testing and that's what bothers the citizens. The state administration must be apolitical and when we become one, then we will be a real democratic state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125919	Thank you. Let us welcome students and students of the Zagreb Construction Technical School who have joined us at the gallery, good afternoon and welcome. ... We continue with an individual debate, next up is a colleague of Stypo Sapina, here's a colleague. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125920	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected parliamentary deputies and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. In this proposal, we have an assessment of the situation and basic issues that need to be regulated by law and the consequences that will arise under this law. As regards the rights, obligations and responsibilities of civil servants, they are governed by the Law on civil servants and the implementing rules adopted under that law. Issues which are not laid down by the Law on civil servants, or by special law, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by other regulations adopted under the Constitution, law or collective agreement shall be subject to general rules in the work. This law proposes erasing provisions relating to job qualifications, evaluation, remuneration of officials and subsistence staff. In the assessment of the situation, it is stated that the new Law on the Payments of State officials and subsistences, in a unique and comprehensive manner, will address the issues, which will address the salaries of officials and subsistence, through a new payment system and a new model of evaluation and advancement. By changing the status of the tenants in such a way that, instead of the general rules in the work so far, the Law on civil servants will apply, and no longer be signed on the work contracts, but will regulate the subsistence status with a solution as well as the officials. This law proposes, for a certain period of time and for a period of more than one year, and relates to the existing obligations of the Republic of Croatia, in connection with the Presidency of the Council of Europe, i.e. the implementation of the international commitments undertaken. It is proposed to rederine the state expert examination in a state examination, in a way that only applies to the general part of the national expert examination so far, while the specific part would be excluded, i.e. it would only be subject to special regulations. It is proposed to establish a new way of passing a state exam, written and to establish a state exam by electronic means at regional level. It is proposed to adopt a regulation on the admission plan to the State Service, which will specify the way in which the reception plan is prepared and the procedure for adoption into the State Service. Although the fact that the Civil Service Act has been amended 15 times since 1.1.2006, the amendments in question and additions to that law had to be prepared. This proposal of the Law, together with the Law on the Payments of Civil Servants and Receipts, constitutes a package of normative solutions to revise the pay system in accordance with the National Reform Programme, and determines the evaluation of work based on the results of work and expertise achieved. I commend this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on civil servants proposed in this way, and I will certainly support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125921	We have two replicas on your exhibit, Mrsic and his colleague Šuker. He's my first colleague, Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125922	It is clear to you that whoever wrote the law, it is clear to you that this law creates a legal void that we will turn the tenants into civil servants, and we will be a unique country in the EU, which will also be a civil servant, that civil servants will have to take a state exam, which will also be a honor to those who do so, but whether they will take a state exam and on the other hand, which, with those who do not want to sign a contract, because by way of effect of this law, solutions should be issued for all those who are subsidists in the state administration, which creates complete legal uncertainty because they are not protected by the part that is related to the Labour Act itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125923	Thank you. All right, Comrade Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125924	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shapina, I would actually be moved by the replica of your discussion of salaries, it's very interesting that today there was a push here as much as anyone has hired, as anyone has hired, everyone has forgotten what they were doing when they were in power, but what matters to me is the Law of Payments and the Law of Payments. It is something that defines both professionalism and expertise and reward for those who know and who work, and also elimination from the systems of those who do not work. That's a fact. The law on paying classes in the state administration of the Republic of Croatia existed, however, in 2000 when some came to say that they did not employ they put that law out of force and unfortunately that law did not see the light of day and we, if we want to have a quality and professional state administration, then we must first of all regulate it by the Law on Salaries, and then all collective contracts and other things that go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125925	Thank you. Here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125926	I thank my colleague Shuker, in my presentation, I said that the Law on Payments is in preparation I hope that in due course this law will see the light of day and will be prepared in such a way that what I said in my presentation can be rewarded by work and results based on his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125927	Thank you. Next individual debate fellow Tudjman. Here's a colleague of Tudjman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Allow, at the beginning, a principled remark concerning not only this law but our contribution, if I may say so, to the contribution of the Croatian Parliament to the red tape of our state administration or action. It has already been said that this law has experienced 11 or 12 amendments if I have not been wrong since 2005, meaning within 14 years, and if we want to have an effective and state administration and judiciary and the understanding of the law, then we would have to accept that proposal which has already been before the Croatian Parliament several times these years, which is that either every 3 amendments to the law must be a new law or at least in one mild version to adopt the consolidated text of the law so that there is no waste of time for those who are calling for the law or who have to work under these laws to be able to manage it more easily or to make these procedures more bureaucratic. However, what I think is missing here and that this law should be particularly highlighted, and that is, if we want an effective state administration to serve citizens, then we need to define the responsibility and obligations of civil servants and substitutors, both to citizens, but also to the entire system and to the institution, the institutions in which they work. Just plastic if we want to, if I want to document it or show it, when a citizen comes to the counter, then it's very often in one situation for an officer to tell him this request, your request is contrary to some other law, things can't be solved, things are blocked or the law is being amended. Or that the legal provision is pointless given the unpredictable situation of what the law couldn't foresee, so things can't be solved again. Or, in short terms, our laws are often conflicted and are indecisive in certain cases. Responsibilities when I say that the responsibility of officials should be for the system then that means that each official is responsible or should have such a procedure that he can warn from his position up to the administration, to the ministry, to the government, to such cases or when the laws are in conflict or when they are against the spirit of the law, what should be solved, that such a problem should be registered and solved at a certain time. It's just not possible today. Such things can be resolved which in our legal system is probably not possible yet, that the minister or government will bring a precedent so that certain problems can be solved by precedent until it is acquired by a certain procedure when the law has to be amended or that there is a obligation for those who follow the law, to propose and report to the party in which the problem is to be solved, this legal problem. Therefore, if we want a political state administration, then we need to define the responsibility of officials and deputies to be responsible for the function themselves or to propose amendments and additions so that this state administration is functional and that it can work. Without defining that responsibility, it is difficult that these other elements of the evaluation of officials and tenants can be effective and today it has been said many times here that these assessments are more formal and all uniforms and that they have no too much sense and cannot make sense unless you give people the authority to be able to participate and model the system in which it works. It also refers to rewarding or injuries on one side of the official duty but also to progress. According to the way it is now, only formal features are how it can be progressed, it is not predicted if I have read well, that it can be made extraordinary progress if someone has really contributed to making this system more efficient and that it can work better. I therefore believe that these several principled provisions should be incorporated in the second reading into this law, so that there is also a basis for the adoption of these other regulations and on salaries and on the assessment of civil servants and substitutes, or in order to develop this awareness of the institutions and responsibilities of all those working in those institutions and not only the policy and policy makers for the efficiency of the system, because today we are unfortunately in one situation, not having such responsibility as to actually have problems escalating us, then this arises as a political problem and we do not have a continuous solution or improvement of or of the procedure or of the legal provisions, so I would suggest that, in that sense, until the second reading, these provisions, which would make both of these laws and other regulations more effective and meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125929	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125930	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Tudjman, in fact, at the very end, you said that not only is the effectiveness of politicians on the implementation of the state and public administration, but that the problem should actually be fully solved. And our colleague, on behalf of the club, said that it was a single full resolution of the Civil Service Act and therefore the salaries of civil servants themselves and thus their reward. And today we've heard about that it's actually politics that might affect this evaluation or subjectivism of human leaders. There are examples in practice, in which we have often talked in the club itself, it is the L'ecole nationale d'government that the French have, so to a certain level, and therefore actually this state and public administration in the French Republic works in a better and more efficient way. You should actually work on it, but when it comes to this House of Highs then you hear the contrary views, actually a wish that does not exist to solve this problem systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125931	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125932	Thank you. So I think what we should, to what we should, is that statesmen and deputies are responsible for the functioning of the state administration. The political part within that should only be responsible for the direction in which it is going. And that's what would make this system stable on the one hand, and we wouldn't have a variety of bickerings about politicization, depolitisation, or how whoever's already looking at these problems, so that's exactly the point of this thesis if by law we don't predict that people who work in institutions are responsible for it, then we won't go in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125933	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125934	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, this is a very important law which I would say is accessible quite lightly and not only by officials but also by our citizens are very sensitive to these topics when it comes to the process of reception, the process of getting a job and what is said in a Colloquial way quite often and the entanglement in the state service and public service and the city service and the city firm, and therefore it should be regulated in a more transparent and clear way because then there would be no such situations as happening in the Environmental Protection Fund, which is run by one of the colleagues from the HNS where of all those who have been employed, 1/3 is exactly from the HNS. It's as if members of the HNS are predisposed to this particular job and when you join the HNS, you probably want to deal with the problem of nature protection, and there I'll all click on that. So this percentage of the success of HNS members in the Environment Protection Agency, which, i.e. the Environmental Protection Fund and the energy efficiency of a colleague from the HNS, is amazing. It is something we simply need to overwrite, I know that some parties have this clientelistic sound that they have been building for many years, so I would say from the government that I was in because, for example, when my colleague Vrdoljak and I were arguing about abolishing mandatory membership in the HGK, he was strongly against it, his assistant lobbying that it did not happen and behold miracles after the term ended that assistant ended in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So this clienteletic sound or omen of some parties has been present for a long time and I was neither satisfied nor proud nor when it happened in the government where I sat, the HNS has preceded it. I see that they continue so very strongly on this example from the fund, because it's impossible, look out, it's impossible that a third of those received are just members of one party. It's something that simply none of our citizens can accept and can understand. This government is marked by such cases, this government is marked by, for example, avoiding the hiring of officials and then taking contracts in action, ministers' advisers, so here we see now one economic adviser who works there, is a former journalist who has stayed with his colleagues from the newspapers where he worked in some unexplained relationships where some allegedly claim to pay his obligations and a man is employed there to advise, I don't even know what form it is and what kind of advice Minister Horvat needs at the moment. On the other hand, we see Prime Minister Plenkovic, an adviser who now explains this whole story about the news faca, quite often is a man in the media, employed by HDZ, and a double salary adviser with the Prime Minister and the HDZ president in the government, which would be nothing controversial that a man can now very hard to tell what his job is, whether it's a party job, whether it's a job as adviser to the Prime Minister. And it's bad for taxpayers' money to be served that way by party members and party employees. That's what our citizens don't like, that's what our citizens condemn and what they fight against. And on that side, yes, it's strange when I say it here today in a country where it's obvious both in the government and in the city of Zagreb where it's the most normal thing to hire brothers, sisters, those who, or daughters, are the sons of those who joined the Bandic Mayor's club from these or those initiatives. So that, unfortunately, has become common practice with us. And almost weird, it almost sounds weird when someone's saying it's not like that at all. So everyone accepted that everything was set up, that party relations were being dealt with in such a way that when someone came from a party to a job function, and the employees who were members of their party not at the post office, not at the revolving door, I know that they attacked us very hard when we were in the government, when we had a revolving door principle that the officers in the cabinet of the minister, after the term of office had been resolved and they were leaving and not HDZ coming to power now and saying no, no, we won't do that, we'll hire but these people will stay forever. And in this way Croatian taxpayers pay through their taxes the entire army of HNS, HDZ and others who are currently employed in the state service and may take a place for those people who could work there and who, unfortunately, in hundreds of thousands must go abroad to countries like Ireland, Germany and so on. And that's why it's very important that the law that we're talking about here today is that this transparency rises to a higher level, that these competitions don't be forms, that interviews don't work one on one with someone, and then he says he was the best, as you know, so here I'm telling you he was the best and then everything according to the law as now showed the report and the supervision of Minister Coric in the fund. He says everything was under the Law of Officials, or no offense was committed but yet the fact remains, a third of all HNS employees. It's amazing to say once again the predisposition that the people who are employed there just happened to come from a party where the head of the fund is also a member of the party. Until we deal with it, until it's in the minds of the citizens that it's not normal, that we all have to fight it so far we won't go forward as a society. And you're on the side I support that all data, the evaluation process be made available to the public that people know transparently who is being received in what way. As far as grading is concerned, I agree that this way of evaluating where everyone gets the highest possible grade in the yearly evaluations is not the happiest because then when you try to evaluate people by a certain curve that is normal, some are a little bit worse, some are a little better then people get angry because they've been taught to always get all the grades highest. And there's no difference, so no one even bothers, Benfits are all the same, no one can be rewarded. And there, I agree it should be tied to a certain work effect to make people really able, to those who are trying, and believe me, there's a lot of those in the ministries, that you can reward them, there's a lot of those who catch the curves, as the people's dictionary says, but there's no difference between one and the other now. Such a law is also needed and I advocate to adopt it, but I highly doubt that it is possible for values, European values, justice of solidarity and equality to be applied with the Government as we now have at hand. So where it's all expensive on the basis of political trade, agreements, non-transparent work as it's even possible to reach one quality law. How is it possible that someone will believe that there really is an interest in this government that something changes when I say a little example, an example from the fund that hired a third of the employees from one party, specifically from the HNS that we know how she published her voters last year? and it is obviously one of the interests that they have done so, so that some members and members can be placed here and there, on account and on behalf of Croatian taxpayers. This is what we all need to talk about, and then we will not have a store like this in the Croatian Parliament, we will not have the trade of Mayor Bandić with other representatives, nor will there be an example of where, whose daughter is working, after entering a club of representatives or a brother, but people will have certain trust in institutions, bodies and those they chose. As long as it's a swamp, it's a swamp, and drying out that swamp can't be the ones who created it, and in this case it's, I told you about HDZ and HNS, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125935	Thank you, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125936	I thank the esteemed vice president, colleague Maras and the people recognized a lot of what you said, a joke in the people, says why there's no sex in the state administration, so he says when they're cornered. All relatives. I've passed the state administration of the county, as head of state and as mayor, as secretary of state at the ministry, the biggest problem is that you, quality people, have to ask for a raise, because of the art that's happening in Croatia and what's the reality, 1/3 people know, they will and can, the rest are... 'Cause they came for some key. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No rewards, those who are quality, you can't reward them, those who don't work, you can't punish them, and they're big problems, and knowledge and kindness are proportionate, which the person in the state administration has more knowledge, it's nicer, which has less knowledge, it's more rude. And it's a regular event on the counters, when an ordinary man comes, then they reject him, and when he visits with him a parliamentary representative, then he can do anything about the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125937	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125938	The problem is this ever-present, which is a lower level of government, I think, even more pronounced. Because when you look at some cities where the economy is not exactly someone and where there are few jobs, most people are concentrated and centered on institutions or state or city, or community. And the concept of government in small communities, works that way, who will hire someone in the forest, in HEP, in the municipality of the city or in some place, where you will have direct influence and thus get votes. Well, it means that not with what happens to us in these environments, we have a situation where people have admitted that they are guilty, or that they have done illegal things, people choose them for mayors, because these environments are made by the principle of interest circles, and that's how they rule. So that's what we have to fight in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125939	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125940	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Maras, I would personally like to have a real job in the state and public administration of anyone who has earned it according to their results, to be sure to find a similar model to do so. But you're talking about pornography, yours, while you were in power, I didn't mean to mention it, but you mentioned... And you said that you were doing it then, and I remember your Prime Minister, here on this stage, said from the pay phone, that it was normal, that all those who came then with politics should then and leave and you said that they were all resolved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As many as are relieved, I don't believe there are many. Let's say in the ministry I don't want to mention right now, you were then with 157 employees, who were then employed by 303 men, none of whom were then resolved. So when you talk about purgatory in that, then you need to look at what you've been doing and actually leave us in the inheritance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125941	Thank you for the response of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125942	My colleague Babic has mixed two things, this was about employees in the cabinets of the minister, and they are all resolved. No employee in my office has ever stayed in law enforcement. Although these people are capable, you can see which careers they continued to work after, as speakers of certain large companies or as private entrepreneurs, etc. etc. I'm not sure that those who come now will work this way after these careers and that they can even work after these careers, otherwise they wouldn't be looking for a permanent job, etc. As far as this particular case is concerned, I don't know what ministry you're talking about, my ministry didn't hire 330 people because there weren't so many. So in my ministry it was all about maybe 150 people, now I can't remember exactly, so I really don't understand what ministry you're talking about, about mine for sure, and for others I can't comment on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125943	The next replica is the respected representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125944	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras apparently has the success of delivering the results to the citizens, fulfilling the promises that you have a problem with this. The same found state that was in the fund, and what it is today. Was it supposed to be a job? It's probably that, no one is in doubt about it, and we shouldn't doubt whether this coincides with something, if you have evidence, I'd like you to be the first to give it to the competent institutions. A revision has been made, and nothing has been done against the law, and that is one thing, and we agree that there must be no protectionism and thus form a public administration. Although certain estates may be difficult to exterminate or eradicate by any law. But what's symptomatic, you would talk about it, and you didn't talk about it when it was just you that formed the ministry so that you could, in a literal sense, catch the words.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125945	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125946	Thank you very much, Comrade Batinić. You have to remember a little bit better, or your party has had SDP on its back for years, so you're the last one to tell me something, I've been vice president of the SDP, and I'm still one of the most famous, known, combative representatives of the SDP, and now you of the HNS we've literally fed for years, you report that something has been done to us as a concession. So how are you not ashamed? We'd have 1.5 representatives in the Croatian Parliament if it wasn't for your SDP. In the city hall, they probably wouldn't have anyone, not by city councils, and now you're talking to me, be careful what kind of paradox the party that's been sucking SDP for years is complaining to me. Well, you better not talk. And as for the data, I have accurate data. Out of 30, 10 from the HNS, what's the coincidence? Is that exactly how it has to be? Where exactly are HNS's employees hired to this end except in that fund? I don't have to have any evidence special. I need this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125947	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125948	My colleague Maras, after this upheaval of the atmosphere after the replica of my colleague Batinić, I must admit that I am actually having a bit of a hypocritical conversation about the new bill on civil servants and here listen to the arguments about how we will improve the way we progress, the values and therefore the payments of those excellent if we know that a car is already a particular legend that says how easier it is to become head of the Ministry of Agriculture, by being a HDZ donor under regular number 191. So that's the reality that people donate HDZ's campaign to their money or other people's money, and then all of us in the state budget pay for their improvements and bigger wages. That's the Croatian reality. And we can talk here whatever we want, ideas and desires are one thing and reality is unfortunately something else. Until we change the mental circuit in the heads of certain parties, there's no front for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125949	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125950	Thank you very much. I'm still under this impression by my colleague Batinić, I can't just believe what a man has said here. So the party that was disproportionate to its political strength lived on others or specifically on SDP, had the influence of half the government with 10 times the support of voters, who cheated on their voters, left, supported HDZ, now the man is telling me something, so that's that man simply can't Wait a minute, you want, can you stop the time? [[Intruder Reiner: You've already given a replica, now you're replicating a colleague of the Voice.]] Let me explain it to you first, and then I'll move on. So, Mr. Vice President, I am speaking here in the replica of my colleague Glasovac because she mentioned the political parties in Croatia and the hypocrites that exist among them. And normally when it comes to hypocrisy and political parties that the HNS is first on the wallpaper. So I'm sure now that I've told you that, you see that connection and give me back, please for 30 seconds how long it's been to finish my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125951	Okay, here you go. You'll get 30 seconds, so enjoy it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125952	Thank you very much, here is a fellow vice president who realized that simply when you mention hypocrisy, politics that the HNS is the first to be simply mentioned, because of what I said, I will once again say, live on others, cheats on your voters, hires your members, and then some dare to speak here in public about how they would do something or how others work for them, trust me all... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125953	Thank you, thank you very much. Now you've already used a lot more than you should have. A fellow Batinic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125954	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Maras, injured Article 238, disrespects, insults almost 40,000 members and members of the CNS. Of course, there are more of us than members and members of the SDP and obviously the mathematics of fellow Marasu is not going. For this reason in lack of content,... I think that by mentioning hypocrisy, he insulted all members and members of the HNS and simply did not, the election results of 2015. 130 000 preferential votes, 2015 100,000 preferential votes, colleague Maras, so if you don't have math to support you, I'll figure out how many mandates it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125955	Thank you. Come on, I suggest that this one, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt, but I'm asking you to stay away from such difficult words. The next debate will be the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125956	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here are a few words on the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants. Namely, this bill and an explanation of why it is being adopted is going towards creating a tool for the state service to be effective, to be at the service of citizens and to be able to carry out the tasks that are very important to the Republic of Croatia at the moment, and this is the Presidency of the EU Council and, of course, the provisions of the sexes relating to the withdrawal of funds from the EU. And when you hear it introducely, you'd think that someone would object to the passing of such a law and that it was necessary for the Republic of Croatia. But the truth should be told that most craftsmen, entrepreneurs and farmers believe that we are a country whose administration is a burden on the economy, that it is agile and inefficient and that through such a administration you cannot accomplish everything that any fellow citizen could and should. This was also contributed by this government, although it was announced that it would go with the reduction of the number of ministries, that it would go with the reduction of the number of state officials, it was exactly the opposite, that the number of ministries had increased, that the number of central state bodies had been increased, and with the assistant ministers were reintroduced, the state secretaries and assistant ministers and directors of administrations and departments, so here, my question and it would be good to have, in the final word, the ministry's representatives say how many state officials are now employed in the Republic of Croatia, there were already some media signs that over 2,000 new employees in the state administration, so it's true or not. There was a lot of emphasis on hiring only party officials and members of individual parties, how to avoid it? Well, first of all, it should be said that honest people and hardworking people work in public services and that you can't have an effective state administration if these people are underpaid and the fact is that the salaries of civil servants and tenants are small both in Slavonia and in Zagreb and Dalmatia. Second, it is very important that they do not all have the same working conditions, that they do not have quality computer equipment, neither programs, nor conditions for professional advancement, attending seminars, etc. But he must, however, at some political will, be granted by the leader and simply the most qualified who are dissatisfied with such wages and attitudes toward civil servants and tenants leave the state service and remain or come only those who are obedient and who cannot be punished. I have information that so far only three civil servants have been evaluated negatively, negatively, so is it possible that only three why this is happening? Well, because the head of the body doesn't want to go into conflict with its employees inside its body and that early bird in everyone good or very good, and those who are of the ruling option great, here comes the administration, and we have an inefficient administration. One study done in providing social services to our citizens, how many state bodies of local (regional) self-government are used by that model of e-citizens, only 6% to 7% still require more than 80% of national authorities to contribute to documents on the basis of which they can exercise their rights to social giving or programmes. This is defeating for the Republic of Croatia, and if this law is going to change, it will improve, then we from the HSS would certainly support this law, but we are afraid it is not. And why this law does not go in parallel with this law and under this law the classification of jobs in the civil service and the model of the evaluation of civil servants and substitutes, rather than being dealt with by a special regulation. I don't think that's right, and especially since the admission plan for the state service will no longer be published in the daily newspapers but only on the websites of the state body and in the National Journal. From whom you hide, so I ask you to tell the closing statement how much you plan in 2019 to hire an officer and a tenant in state bodies and in which bodies. For people to know that, people need to know that, perhaps, those interested would report to these competitions and when these competitions would be about to take place. When it comes to increasing jobs due to the EU Council's chairmanship, however, new people need it, but let's be realistic, professional people with skills and quality are either in private business or in some bodies where they have a much higher salary, and you'll find it hard to get people like that as long as there's no room open for those who work, who work well can be rewarded with a higher salary, so I don't think we'll have any greater successes. And evidence that that is the case is also the result of the withdrawal of EU funds and there is a lot of people employed within these 2,000 people by state bodies to increase absorption power and human potential due to the withdrawal of funds from the European Funds. Everything is set for 60%, and 14% paid for the information for 2018. So we don't even have the right results. And here I would also point out that you will also provide for this legislation to be employed for a certain time, young, professional, highly educated people for a certain time, whether it is about EU funds while the project is under way or whether it is about the EU Council's chairmanship while it is going on, these jobs are taking place. So in this way you punish young people, the largest number of young people who have moved out of Slavonia, Baranja, Sreme, from other undeveloped parts of the world, one of the reasons they couldn't get a job indefinitely. Because if he is employed for a certain period of time, he can neither be credited nor planned to start a family, nor be able to take care of the housing, why, and the highest rate of youth employment is set in this environment in Croatia. And that's another element why we can't support this law because you're making people young again, educated to work for a certain time, that's not a good way to go, and we need to find models to hire young people indefinitely. But I believe that these people who are working on EU projects will gain that knowledge and skills and should be immediately allowed to turn this working relationship into a working relationship into an indefinite working relationship, and then certainly better quality and faster training and stay working in state bodies, because this is not a good way to do this, for you have a huge outflow into private companies, agencies that are emerging and that are drawing you away from the most high-quality staff from funds and ministries, and it is certainly not a good way to go. I must also point out once again that the reduction in the number of agencies and state bodies, 19 of the government's decision did not make financial discharges or economies, nor savings, but only solved 19 agency leaders and administrative councils where it was the government's political decision, not to go towards quality and create a prerequisite for having an effective state administration, that we have a high-quality withdrawal of EU funds and thus create conditions for citizens to be satisfied with the state administration or services that operate in this way. And my question is also, announced the merger of the state administration's office with the county, whether it will be, when it will be, in what way it will be implemented, whether it will be brought together and employees' salaries because we know that civil servants and subsistences in the public administration offices have lower personal income compared to employees in the county, how it will be resolved and who will finance it, because a lot of counties have no fiscal capacity to equalise salaries for civil servants and tenants with their employees. These are issues that remain unresolved, and we are only passing a new law that will be another law without quality solutions on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125957	Thank you. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125958	Thank you very much, my colleague should make this clear to you, and here I see it with the edge of my eye and the Secretary of State of Rome sitting between two pillars there, how many new people have been employed by this state service in the past two years, she has certainly had that information, maybe she can prepare herself for the next debate where that power will be asked. It's a very interesting question, how many new employees are in the public administration because that's what our citizens are interested in, it's wrapped up in a veil of secrets, here, and now I've given her a hint of what we're going to ask her, so I'd ask her to maybe do a little research by the time it comes to order, here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125959	Something will say, apparently, fellow Vlaovic, although the question was not addressed to him, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125960	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, I have said that there have been multiple reports in the media that over 2,000 people have been employed in the Offices of State Administration, Ministry, etc. And I would like to get that answer, too, if that's really true and what are the effects of this new employment in the state bodies in the Republic of Croatia. And what we also get through the media that the effects of such employment is that the perception of corruption growth in the Republic of Croatia is much larger, i.e. the IPK index, the perception index and corruption in Croatia 49, the EU average is 66, we fell by 2 points below, so we are even worse, more people are employed, and apparently citizens don't trust this system, especially because of the way this government is formed, because of the purchase of votes, because of the purchase of mandates, and I believe that this index of perception, corruption will continue to grow instead of going to have a healthy society, perspective society. which gives young people a chance. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125961	Thank you. Answer, next replicas of the respected MPs Martha Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125962	Thank you. Well, I've been listening very carefully to this debate since this morning, and I'm sorry that the debate on a small amendment to the law that is based on, in principle, the employment of officials during the EU presidency has come down to the story of the fact that, in the state service, they are all unemployed and arrests. I'd still like to draw attention from personal experience. I know, I worked both in the real sector and in the state administration, I have to admit that people on the ground, so I'm not talking about the Ministry and Zagreb, that people on the ground who work with the parties are doing a lot of work and I haven't noticed that there's a lot of work there, but on the other hand, you're getting reports every day that you have to deliver to Zagreb and I don't know, and that's things that you've been dealing with all day without knowing who these reports need. Well, I also drew attention to the State Inspectorate Act where you have inspectors on the ground, and then inspectors at the Central Offices who are asking for reports from the inspectors on the ground, and they show it as their work. , so I want to mention that it is about employment [[Intruder: Thank you]] in Zagreb and the Ministry, not in the field. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125963	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125964	Thank you, colleagues, for your replica. If you listened carefully, I said in my debate that... public officials and tenants who do their job quality and that, if we expect them to be even nicer to the parties, to be more efficient, to be paid better and to give them space to make professional progress, to perfect themselves from computer equipment and everything else that comes next. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course it's not good to hire only here in Zagreb at the Ministry. One of my discussions was and why should all the ministries be in Zagreb? Why should all administrations be in Zagreb? Why don't we dislocate something in Slavonia or Dalmatia, but here, there's no hearing and most of the new employees are probably in the ministries. And it's bad on the ground that individual offices and agencies are being abolished in Novi Gradiška, Županja, so our fellow citizens have to go to Slavonski Brod or Vinkovci to complete the simplest task. It makes business difficult for our farmers and our craftsmen. That's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125965	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125966	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Vlaović, you were talking about working for a certain time. I think it's the same big problem today in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, our youngsters go out, we talk all the time about how young people shouldn't leave, how they should have good pay, and then we keep them for a certain time for a few years. And when it comes to the entrepreneur, some privateer, I might understand something else, but when it comes to state, public service, agency, ministry, and I know a number of cases where young people work for years and every year extends to them for six months, then it's something that's inadmissible. We can't talk on one side, and then we can do the other. The state must be the one who has to take care of young people and talk about how it should be, and not then break the law and work on, talking about how we're interested that children don't go out, that they stay here working, and do something else entirely. And one measure that was abolished, which was before, which is professional training. Thousands of young people found a job through professional training, today it's It's been lifted and it's gone. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125967	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125968	Thank you, pal, for the replica. I said it was not good to force young people to work for a certain time and they were in the survey that was done, why they moved out of the Republic of Croatia, one of the major and most common answers was to leave because they can't get a job indefinitely, and it's still a high rate of youth employment at a specified time and I think that through this Law and through the measures implemented by the Government, the employment of civil servants and tenants, they should avoid that people are employed for a certain time, because it doesn't give them the certainty that they can plan their family and their professional training, and neither can they plan to provide housing. Of course, models need to be designed to keep young highly educated people in the Republic of Croatia, to have such salaries that they can live on, and we can see that this policy and this government are not going in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125969	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125970	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, ma'am. In fact, the State Secretary said in her introduction why and how this Law was passed. I will only repeat that, when the budget was adopted for 2019, also from Minister Marić here at the expenditure side of the budget, we could hear about the amounts of expenditure on staff expenditure, and also part related to the rent of space at the EU Council Presidency, the European Council, as counterpart Pusic said on several occasions, therefore, to the non-European Council, but to the Presidency of the EU Council. What I want to point out, without repeating myself in view of my colleagues, is to say a few things. So today we used these amendments and the additions of the Law on Civil Service Officers in a way that we talked about civil servants, the impression that and the perceptions that are publically related to civil servants and tenants, the inefficient state and public administration, and the question of whether that is the case. So here in the assembly are the people who were heads of the ministries, so ministers, state secretaries, ministerial assistants, and they should talk about a completely different picture regarding state officials. So, civil servants, the vast majority of them are valuable people and they are doing their job responsibly, I would ask and I would ask my colleagues here that those who have come to the head of the ministries, and the impression is in public, and also with state officials that the arrival of the minister, assistant minister or secretary of state is actually coming with him where they should manage the ministry. However, each of us who has dealt with this business knows that a good, disciplined and professional civil servant can only be helpful to you, no one will ask him, as far as I know from my experience whether he is a member of a party, whether he belongs to a party, to a group, that is less important, that he does the job, it is important that he can implement the programme with which a particular party is, we must say, to the authorities, and be prepared to implement that programme that she drew up. So, I have positive experience with civil servants. What I was trying to point out, and I would like it to happen in the Republic of Croatia, and that is what my colleague Jelkovac said in her introduction that we are making amendments and amendments to this law precisely because of the Presidency of the EU Council, and that is why certain changes are needed in order not to have ineffectiveness in carrying out this very valuable and significant work. So, as Croatia enters the EU in 2013, today we are in a position to chair the EU Council which is certainly a positive thing and a new experience for us, a new experience for Croatia for its leaders, but also for state officials. That's why I welcome all the changes that are written here in this, in this law. What I'm trying to say is that through what colleagues have been saying today, during the debate on the ineffectiveness of the state administration or the transfer of certain things to people who, civil servants who should be doing their job zealously. The fact is that some colleagues here today said that when certain officials go on vacation or the like, those items stay, they don't actually get rid of what citizens actually suffer for, that shouldn't happen to us. This debate today, which has been held here, can only serve to pass a comprehensive law of ties for civil servants, and thus the Law of Payments for civil servants. What the MPs of the opposition expressed in their skepticism is the fact that we may have a certain subjectivity in this evaluation that, at some point, creates, creates a certain suspicion. In practice in these 28 or 29 years, we actually know that we need one such strong law precisely because of the effectiveness of the state administration itself. I believe that this will happen without taking up time for you, I welcome these changes precisely because of this event that will take place in the Republic of Croatia in the near future, and I recommend that all my colleagues think that we should pass a fair and effective law that will help all of us, especially citizens, to change this impression or perception of civil servants and tenants. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125971	Thank you very much, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125972	Dear counterpart Babić, the idea that this is a law that will help us to better organise our EU presidency falls into the water, when you see how many employees were in public administration 2015-229.180, 2016.-231.224, 2017.-233.886 we wait 2018. At the time of the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic 1,633 newly employed in the public administration, at the time of Andrej Plenkovic 2,662 newly employed plus 2,700 last year, which means that at the time of the HDZ public administration, 7,000 new people are employed and I do not believe that among those 7,000, it is not possible to find 1,000 people who will participate in the organisation of our EU presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125973	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125974	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, but you, Mrsic, prejudge things, say that you should and know exactly how many people will be accepted for this presidency, but I know that on the web pages of the Ministry of Administration you have an accurate list of civil servants and public servants, I think you are mixing state and public servants here and talking about the number employed during this government or the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. I don't think he's right about what happened at the public service are the needs of these services, so nothing special happened, and in that part, the law was broken, knowing the way it was actually employed, so the 2 that went away from 1 can be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125975	The next replica of the respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125976	Thank you very much, Vice President, my colleague Babic, I had to react, I am sorry to have to react to that because you said that it is not a party member but merely a professionality and competence in employment which, unfortunately, is not true. So, I would like to see this competition that will not come, but we must be honest with ourselves and with the Croatian public who is following our work, so in Croatia if you do not have a party card, regardless of who it is now and what the environments are, this party card is rarely the main reason why you got the job. Therefore, no one in this world can convince me that 13 HNS people who have received a job at the Environmental Fund are really so much better than all others who are not members of the HNS, and I am not going to talk about the latest case in Otočac, where the man who has been fired on Plitvice and Velučište are now returned to Plitvice and Veleučište, just because he has the HDZ card.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125977	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125978	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, you were the head of one body and you know that for one post as a state official whose 5 has been called, and 50 candidates have applied, that those other 45 who have not been admitted to that post, everyone will think that some others have been admitted through a relationship or because they are members of a particular party. You're talking about members, people who are being admitted to the Fund, and you're saying they're all members of the CNS. I don't know about that information, if, you probably have that information, so you can talk about it, but I'm telling you from experience, because I know that everyone who hasn't been admitted believes that the other person who was admitted is admitted because he has a membership card or is a friend or acquaintance with a minister, the head man of that state body, and that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125979	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125980	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Babic, I hear here that the public administration is massive, inefficient, full of ears, drones, incompetent, etc. I would only point out here that everyone is judging himself. In fact, during the SDP, you in the area of the Varazdin County couldn't find a single construction site, to work, work, build, etc. Today, during the current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, meaning the HDZ-led government, the entire area of the Varazdin County is literally one big construction site. About 430 million kunas are invested in health care, about a billion and a half in environmental protection, so agglomerations are being built to protect water. Hundreds of millions of kuna are preparing for road investments, about 60 million kuna on energy recovery in schools Mostly. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125981	Here's an answer from the esteemed representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125982	Well, fellow Striker, I am that, perhaps you weren't there and our esteemed colleague said that, regardless of their party membership, when the leader comes to you, he certainly wants a civil servant who is working, disciplined and who is professional and no one wants to give up. You don't have a problem with, say, being a civil servant, you have a problem with someone who's eskiculating, who goes to sick leave, who doesn't do his job. Those people who worked at the Ministry, here are our colleagues who were ministers, we have a problem with that vertical flow. So, your civil servant can always, in fact, brake in your business. About how many former Kukuriku coalitions and what they were doing, I was also saying, here, and now I'm going to say, let's say, at the Ministry of Social Policy then they had 157 employees, their arrival in a few months, that number grew to 303 then employees, so 150 people hired more just a few months and none of them left, actually they all stayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125983	Thank you. The next individual debate of the respected representative Sabine Glasovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. I don't think I'm going to go too far if I say that in some perception of the public with politicians, it's likely that civil servants are somehow the most hated part of the system, at least when we talk about those honorable epithets that are very often honored by citizens, which is that, I don't know, they're overpaid, parasites, images of bears who can't lose their jobs, people who once get arrested above all, but also people who once get arrested in the state administration from it no longer can be expelled, unemployed, useless, mammals of state or our money, and we need to be aware that this anger of citizens, as well as the anger of citizens when they talk and talk about us politicians is in part justified. And what we can do first is, in some way, restore the honor of the professions that we do, and here in HS, we have opportunities to point to all the anomalies that are happening in public space, even when we speak in this area, but also to change the legislative framework to achieve a fairer perception, because surely all politicians are the same, and not all civil servants are the same. On the contrary, in the system of state administration, and even public administration, a good part or a large number of people are honorable people, professionals who do excellently, extremely correctly their job and who I believe are citizens who are actually at their service, whose servants, if you spent a certain external evaluation, would not have words of contempt. However, we come to the small part of the way people enter the public ministry. Here, we've had opportunities to hear today in this debate how, in fact, by corruption, by nepotism, by political corruption, by staged competitions, by contesting the quality of candidates, we're actually disrupting ourselves, we're destroying ourselves, and we're destroying the system that we need to create and improve ourselves. And therefore, it would be really good to remind, and this government, that it is still in force, for example, a regulation or a decision to prohibit employment in public services. I have a sort of impression, maybe that impression is cheating on me, but I have the impression that someone's put out of effect that decision and I have the impression that in the last two years, once again, at such an intense rate, I'm not going to say beyond the law that it's probably all expensive or I'm convinced, it's being conducted in accordance with the law, and I feel like there's a growing administration. Now, are we, is the first question being asked whether it's necessary and necessary, and secondly, if we've got the highest quality personnel in the state administration. If it wasn't necessary or if we didn't choose only the highest quality, but we chose them by party cards, by some other relationships, etc., then we contributed to further destroying the system of state administration in the long term and that citizens still have this perception of people they shouldn't have. What I will repeat, I said in one replica, it is absolutely abnormal and illogical that such an important law comes to the Croatian Parliament in a way that one important part of it, the content segment in it is no longer regulated. These are the classification of jobs, job descriptions, procedures, evaluations and associated progresses and related ones, then how we have the opportunity to hear from this Government and greater financial evaluation and making the difference between officials and officials or quality evaluation. We actually do all this together now that we have the law to get out of this law and we say we're going to regulate all this together by special regulations or the State Service Payments Act and we don't have the perception of how it's going to look and until the law is passed in the state service we have one legal vacuum, these people are nowhere. It's actually in some kind of air-breathing space. We have no chance to see what this will be a criterion, says no longer a direct senior officer and an officer assesses and assesses the lower-ranked civil servant, but it will be only one smaller segment that will affect his progress, his evaluation, his salary, and the other part will be objective, yes, but what? Where are your criteria? How will it be evaluated, how people, how they will be evaluated, what will depend on their salary tomorrow, I don't think we can see it here, not in this law, but also in some law that would make sense that we are in parallel with it and otherwise I think that in Croatia we should change the legislative practice and I think that we should be in the Croatian Parliament, maybe it's a bigger step but we should come before the Croatian Parliament with the laws and with the relevant rules because very often in the law we leave the regulation that almost half of the law is prescribed by the rules and at that point we don't see nor the rules ever be adopted, some rules in this way prevent the implementation of the law and I think that, long-term in the Republic of Croatia, we should consider that we now have a package of laws, or two laws, that we should get a picture of what this government actually wants to do to improve the quality of the work of civil servants, to distinguish the state officials from the state officials, to those who are above and to the average, and to the average, and to the extent of which we can're not, and to the average of average, and how we can be able to be evaluated of average, and how we can be evaluateds of average and how we can be evaluated. And I think that in the future every law should contain the words, and the sublegal acts or regulations to see which direction the legislator actually wants to go in, and then that makes it easier for us to declare a law. There are these laws and some good moments that will make the passing of a professional exam available throughout Croatia, which will be possible by written or electronic means, there are some other good moments, but first of all, because without that other law we cannot talk about improving quality and significant steps in this work only if the purpose of this law is not to open up a space for problem-solving problem, because we do not know how we will prepare for the EU Council Presidency on the one hand and on the other hand if we do not want to legalise one paradoxal situation, and this is that for the first time in the Republic of Croatia for the first time in two years Croatian citizens have been paid both State Secretary and Assistant Ministers and now we want to create a legal framework for the assistant ministers who have been elected in office, politically appointed in a mandate, to allow them to make permanent taxpayers in the state offices. We also want to enable cabinet members who came with the Minister during our government, who were leaving with the Minister, who were there for the term of office, and by this law you want to enable people who were politically appointed, politically brought by ministers, to make it possible, but the cost of taxpayers, they remain employed in the system with contracts indefinitely. As you're not ashamed to do things like this the moment I say, at the Ministry of Agriculture to make progress and become the director of the administration, which is what needs to be a HDZ donor. We heard today what's going on in the fund, what's going on with the HNS personnel. Is this why you passed this law to legalize these two things? First of all, I can understand, if we don't embarrass ourselves, the year is until we take over the presidency, we know what our capacities are, we know that we're going to be late, we don't know spatially, we don't know who's going to be with the space, who's going to do it all together, and I can understand this, secondly, if it's the intensity of passing this law, you might be ashamed that you're going to put Croatian citizens, yet unborn children in charge of people who are politically appointed, to hire in ministries as if you have not done so much in accordance with the laws that exist these 2 years. [[Time, ma'am. Voter.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125985	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first line has Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125986	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the problem in the country that exists is the lack of a system of progress and a system of transparent employment. So in the Republic of Croatia there is a system called clientalism instead of a metricocracy. In that former system, it wasn't much different, we had one game in order for a man to advance he had to be a member of the party. Today in the new system, in order for the public and state sector to be some kind of lower, medium or senior manager, it must also be a member of the party that is in power, of course. And that's our big problem. I'm going to say one of my examples where I was when I ran for Commissioner in one sector in my company my program was to get into a collective contract to implement the provisions on the system of progress, one other colleague said he was going to fight for pay increases and that colleague passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125987	Answer, here you go, Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125988	I agree with you that there is no quality system that you in the ministries that are officials adequately reward if they are really good, if they bounce off average and they probably do. Just as it's not fair for those who go rogue and whose business is regularly put on the backs of those who want to, they can, so they can load them even more to sanction them in some way, but that's the way it is. And as far as progress goes, you don't have to be a member of the game to make progress. I only have my own ministry experience when I was a ministerial assistant. Not one of my captains, not one of the leaders was a member of my party, maybe he was someone else, but mine wasn't. We tried to put people who knew their jobs, who were valuable and who worked, whether they were or not. But here I know for a fact that they weren't my members. So there is, and there is that in politics, depending on who has skirt and scissors in their hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125989	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Vuketic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125990	Thank you. You spoke to your colleagues at the beginning of your public perception presentation and at the end of your presentation when you referred to that someone was brought by political will and then got a job indefinitely then we see that the relationship between your beginning and the completion of the presentation is not a relationship that speaks of perception but reality. If we have a political will that manages a particular area and in a way that spreads the legality of that will, then it is corruption, by definition corruption and the reality of corruption. The problem of Croatia is that corruption so that it can be overcome for a start should be done with mind. I don't see any major mental activity, and I'm afraid that the degree of corruption will only become more and more pronounced.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125991	Answer, Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125992	Yes, colleague Vučetić, I told you about the perception of people who are employed in that system, but also after that, I also got through the fact that we are free of what would be said to the people's most perfect laws that we will write here and packages of the law if we don't change the mental circuit and if we don't start doing this to ourselves. I'm sorry, and I'm done. We can discuss every article of this law, the injustice that happens to people who are of a quality in the system and who are unfairly marked as non-workers, arrests, etc., but we will not do them any favors by prescribing clearer or less clear criteria than by saying again who enters our system, hiring only where there is a need, hiring the highest quality, allowing them to advance the most qualitative. Unfortunately, we haven't seen that movie in two years, and it won't help us make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125993	Thank you. Mr. Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, we've already heard several times today that there's going to be some kind of legal void, legal vacuum because there's still no new pay law, etc. I mean, when you read the law or the final bill of law, you should read both transitional and final provisions. It is clear in Article 45 that those provisions of this law relating to wages come into force when a new law governing wages is passed. So no legal wolf will be that clear. So you have to read the law. The second thing you said, you mentioned the Ministry of Science and Education. In your term and mandate, Minister Jovanovic's personnel structure has been changed greatly, perhaps not by formal members of the SDP, but certainly by most people who belong to your political group, your political, political orientation. And that same personnel structure is there today, 99.9%. So the Ministry of Science is not a good example of showing that HDZ is in love and the SDP isn't incriminating. I mean, let's not be ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125995	Answer, Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125996	But you're a smart man, and now you're acting like a psychic Milan, really, but you don't see well in that ball. People came with Mr. Minister Jovanovic who left after the government's term. Yes, in the ministry as well as in all other ministries, people who worked to attract European funds were hired, and you know it, there were massive competitions exclusively banned two for one and the full ban was not valid for these staff. You say it won't disappear this second part of the legal vacuum, maybe it won't disappear legal vacuum, but it's normal for you to speak today, we're completely reconstructing the system of state service, advancement, evaluations, etc. And today we don't know what's going to be different, how these people are going to be evaluated, how they're going to be promoted, and how they're going to be paid. It's not normal for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125997	Mr. Bauk is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125998	Thank you. During today's debate, Col. Glasovac, MP Babic alluded to the fact that during our government at the Social Policy Ministry, about 150 people were employed, and in this way I find it quite incorrect to accuse today's representative Opačić of illegal employment, so I ask my colleague Jankovic, since it is a member of his club to talk a little with his HDZ colleagues and to defend his colleague Opačić from their unfounded accusations, because I really, I don't think that's why the coalition now comes into question. And as for numbers, I can only conclude that since 2011-2016 the number of people who receive salaries from the budget has been reduced by 3000 so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u125999	I hope you won't answer, since he didn't replicate to you, so I hope you won't answer, right, but you can if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126000	Comrade Bauk, even though you didn't replicate to me, but actually colleagues. and look, I have to tell the man that it's not right, that he actually used a replica of me, for a replica of his colleague Babić, but I understand why he did it, because really in that mandate, actually Arsen Bauk was one of the key brakesters of employment in the government of Zoran Milanovic's civil servants and all the ministers know it, the whole public knows it. [[It is and it's not exactly your rules of procedure, but listen, we're here where we are.]] So what my colleague Babic actually mentioned is a brutal attack on the identity of his colleague Bauk, who is known as a very thrifty man, and in every sense, not only at home, but also in the state budget, you hear what he told you, he not only cares about his budget, but he also cared about the budget at the time. Where it wasn't necessary, they didn't get a job, not to say worse, to trap people. Even where it was necessary, he wouldn't give it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126001	Thank you, thank you, thank you. One of the most intypical two most intypical replicas in my long-standing internship in this House. Let's move on, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126002	You say fellow voters that there is a perception that politics employs people. Unfortunately, it's not about perception, it's about reality, and all people know it, and it doesn't make any sense to bend that fact. There is one single rule that is fair and that ruled during Milanovic's government, which is who with politics comes and goes with politics. And this law, it's actually the law of nepotism. Now that it's only been immoral so far, what's been unfair, it's now becoming legally possible. You tell your colleagues they can be ashamed, don't be naive, they don't know what shame is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126003	Answer, ma'am. A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126004	Perhaps fellow Stazic is trying in this way to legalise the political bringing of people to the ministry, which in the cabinet, which is to be transferred to other posts, and all of this tomorrow, that is, after the adoption of this law, is to be transferred to the expense of taxpayers and these people to be employed and permanently left in the ministry. There is so much more reason to doubt, if we see that more admission plans to the state administration, then if we take this part from the side, it will no longer be public and will not be necessary to publish it in a daily media in the area of the Republic of Croatia. So I'm wondering why such a step back in certain standards of transparency, if you don't want to hide something, hide it under some kind of sheet, something there to return, mutate, work and give birth to, make this little official kid on your white black... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126005	Thank you very much, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126006	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Glasovac, we have been objecting from the opposition over the past months that the state administration is too big, too massive, too much administration, etc. However, when the government sets out to abolish or merge 54 administrations, agencies, funds, state-owned companies, we have thus reduced 54 major posts less. Right out of the opposition come the nicknames for what you're doing. That's where you said the state administration was inefficient, full of ears, drones, etc. Well, I wouldn't do that kind of flat-rate thing, so I'd like to start estimating the results of the work. For example. 2009 The SDP of the Varazdin County, collected signatures for the design and construction of the fast road Varazdin-Ivanec-Lepoglava-Krapina. From 2009 to last year, the initiative didn't even have an manual number, so much for someone's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126007	Mr. Uncle, thank you. The answer to Mrs. Crescent's A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126008	My dear colleague, first of all, I don't think you've reduced the number of employees and rationalized the state administration, that's my impression, I don't have the data now, but rarely when the impression, especially the first one, cheats on me, no matter how I try to comfort myself, but in the end, it turns out that it was always the first impression that was right. And secondly, I'm not so sure about these suspensions and merger agencies, that there will be some significant savings. We still haven't received, we've been asking for certain agencies here, it's written that there are no financial effects, for the state budget, and then we're wondering why you're removing some institutions and some agencies. There are not things clear, there is a lot of illogicalness done, I could now talk about the system of education, which damage you'll do by joining certain agencies, so this should be approached in a slightly different way, I'm afraid there won't be any more important financial savings, and the question is how much damage it will bring in certain areas, in education... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126009	Thank you. Now, that was the last response to the replica, to the last replica. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126010	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, first reading, P.Z. Number 516. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 99 votes for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126011	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, first reading, P.Z. No. 519 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions relating to the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on the Constitution, Political, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Madam Secretary of State. Josepha Rimac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126012	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives. In addition to the draft draft Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, I would like to remind you that the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions since the entry into force of the basic text of the 2011 Law has experienced several amendments and additions that have improved the system of financing political activity and election promotion. However, further implementation of the Law identified certain problems and shortcomings that required further improvement and full regulation of legislation. In view of the scope of the necessary changes in the area of funding for the political action of electoral promotion that is changing the nature of past relations, and new areas are being regulated, it is proposed to adopt a whole new law that regulates the issue of financing political activities of election promotion and referendums in a single and systematic manner. More significant newspapers containing this bill of law than the current Law refer to the following issues. The financing of the referendum activity, which is now not regulated by any regulation, and since the decisions taken in the referendum are mandatory and can also be amended by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, is assessed by the necessary legislative arrangements and the way in which the referenda campaigns are financed and the transparency and supervision of their funding is ensured. The information system for the monitoring of funding shall also be introduced by means of which data input control entities will submit financial reports to the competent authorities, report on the donations and costs of election promotion and referendum activities and other regulations, reports and other data. This will simplify the assembly and submission of financial reports and other reports, and will also ensure their publication through the information system in a unique place for all entities, on the website of the National Election Commission. This ensures more effective supervision, the establishment of an easy search of the database, the assembly and submission of financial reports and other reports and data, and facilitates the monitoring of political funding by the public. The criteria for determining the amount of funds that units of local and regional self-government are obliged to provide in the budget for the regular annual financing of political parties and members of the representative bodies of the units selected from the list of groups of voters in such a way as to determine the minimum amount per member of the representative body of the local self-government unit at the annual level. This will ensure minimum common standards in regular annual financing from the budget of units of local regional self-government, thus enabling the freedom of units of local self-government to set higher amounts per member of the representative body for regular annual budget financing in accordance with the financial force. There is also a way to allocate funds to political parties from the budget for regular annual financing. It shall be determined according to the number of seats obtained, or the place of members in the representative body of the units of local self-government according to the final official results of the elections, and not according to the moment of establishment of the representative body as a solution so far. This will ensure that the allocation of taxpayers' funds or resources from the state budget and the budget of units of local and regional self-government is fully in line with the election results, which is only important and follows the will of the electoral authority. It is also regulated that a member of a representative body selected from a list of voters who has not opened a special account for regular annual financing within the prescribed time limit, the unit of local and regional self-government is not obliged to pay off the funds for a period during which the special account has not been opened, which encourages timely reporting and enforcement of its obligations. The same is found for independent representatives. In order to strengthen transparency, the obligation of the relevant HS Committee, i.e. units of local and regional self-government, shall be determined on its website to publish a report on the amount of allocated and paid funds for the regular annual financing of political parties, independent representatives or independent council members. The possibility is provided for that independent representatives and independent council members may waive the right to finance from the budget, to regulate and to act in the event of refusal of that right. It is found that if an independent representative becomes a member of a political party that participates in HS funds for regular annual budget financing, they belong to a political party whose member has become, and remains, meaning and remains more so far, according to the solution so far. The same applies to independent councilmen. In this way, all rights and obligations are passed on to a political party through the foundations of financial operations and are reduced by the obligation of those independent representatives and independent council members, and are also reduced by the number of supervisory entities, which also contributes to more effective supervision, and with the borrowing of the same standards, means transparency. Also, if I am an independent representative, the independent representative himself as such ceases his term of office, resigns or puts his term of office, means he assumes his mandate next from the list he was and does not necessarily have to be in the political party in which his colleague was on the list, which means that then the rights towards the political party cease. For donations whose value is greater than 5,000 kuna, we also resolve the obligation to conclude the contract and the issue of return means unwanted donations to political parties or independent deputies. The limitation of donations from individual natural or legal persons shall be particularly regulated for regular annual financing in such a way as to establish the same at the annual level, and in particular for the financing of electoral promotion in such a way as to establish the same by individual elections, unlike the solution so far, according to which the limitation of the amount of donations from a particular natural or legal person was determined at the total annual level independently of whether donations for regular annual funding or for donations for the financing of the electoral promotion. It is found that the cost of the electoral promotion cannot be paid to a greater extent than the costs incurred by the electoral promotion, given the purpose and the fee which serves to pay the costs of the electoral promotion. In order to equalise the handling of funds with a special account for the financing of the electoral promotion of all entities, an exemption from the application other than the obligation to collect the costs of the election promotion shall also be determined for the funds of the special account for the financing of the political party's election promotion. The issue of availability with all neutral assets remaining in a special account for the financing of the electoral promotion until the day of its closure is established. So by means of own resources, donations and funds to compensate for the cost of election promotion, not just the availability of neutral donation funds as it has been in the solution so far. More detailed arrangements are also being made for the financing of electoral promotion, candidates by political parties proposed by candidates. It is found that, to the amount of funds on the candidate's special account, the political party who proposed the candidate and the donation in the form of products and services provided by the political parties proposed by the candidates is not subject to the provisions of this grant restriction law, the limitation of the time limit on the collection of grants and the ban on funding by political parties as non-profit organisations. The total cost of electoral promotion is increased according to the lists of candidates in the elections for members of the European Parliament in the Republic of Croatia from up to 1500,000 kuna to 4.000 kuna, assessing that the amount allowed so far in view of the importance of these elections is not in proportion to the total amount of election promotion costs for the other elections. The level of fines for infringements is reduced as the amount of fines prescribed in the law in particular at local level has shown to be completely disproportionate in relation to actions which, in relation to the acts for which the rules have been laid down, are significantly higher than the amount of funds that members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government have achieved for regular annual funding from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126013	You have a series of replicas of Mrs. Roman. The first line has Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126014	Dear Secretary of State, I am sorry that this law was not under discussion before the start of Croatia's pre-accession negotiations to join the EU when hundreds of and hundreds of millions of euros of people agreed to join the EU with propaganda, marketing and convincing Croatian citizens to join the EU. When this sacred goal is achieved by unlimited funds from outside, from the EU, now we will limit because the constitution is changing. So, if the people want to change the Constitution, then that question must come to a referendum and the people will say whether or not it is. But one thing you can't understand is these two referendums that just took place for which the signatures were collected, and that's enough signatures were done by volunteers. So these are referendums that have not been paid but have been done by 1,000 volunteers and that is what you cannot prevent regardless of your attempt or through any law. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126016	Dear Parliamentarian Zekanovic, I would like to ask a clear question, if you would tell me that volunteers have collected signatures and carried out a referendum I agree, thanks to many volunteers and you are today a parliamentary representative, but I think you have the wrong subject and please if something is not clear from a concrete bill to ask me if I will answer you, and here we are only regulating the way to finance the referendum, so that it is transparent with a clear goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126017	Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126018	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, the Honorable State Secretary, in your bill of law, for providing the resources needed in the state budget for the implementation of this law, but you did not specify what resources are needed in all local budgets, since you provide for a commitment for each local budget to allocate a certain amount for the financing of political parties from 1,000 kuna in the smallest municipality to 8,000 in the City of Zagreb. What is the cost of the local budgets this year that you are predicting, and so far the law is not prescribed, so what is the amount of an additional million kuna to finance political parties?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126019	Here you go, Mrs. Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126020	Dear Parliamentarian, thank you for this question, this law introduces order, we clearly define and clearly define the number of inhabitants, or the size of the unit of local and regional self-government, which is the minimum means of work, means for the work of their members of the representative body, speaking of municipal, city councils or county parliaments. We believe that given the revenues generated by the units of local self-government, it is precisely from taxpayers and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we had a disproportionate, that certain units of local self-government were literally 1 kn, for one member of the representative body at the annual level to some who have thus singled out in a significantly larger amount. In this way we prescribe an obligation so that members of the representative body can have the basic resources for their work in their representative body, as you have here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126021	Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126022	Thank you, Vice-President, Your Honor, this law is nothing but a political harbinger where you are taken back to the units of local self-government money, setting minimum amounts, and that money goes to the central centres, with the moss in Zagreb. Personally in Vrgorec, we are exactly the city, where he had 1 kn political party, there was also a lot of kuna with regard to what HDZ left behind. There's a lot of kuna in every local self-government unit from the Dalmatian Zagora that I come from, and you know, since we know what HDZ leaves behind, one basic elemental disaster, which is a lot to fund for that one kuna. Personally, I believe that mayors can propose budgets, representative bodies make decisions, and why define minimum amounts, let more be invested in the preschool system and everything else that should be, rather than in the political system, that this money goes to central centres in Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126023	Thank you. You answer well first, and then, well, I accept, here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126024	Thank you. Mr. Pranic injured Article 238 and insulted the natural disasters and compared them to HDZ and asked him not to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126025	Now I'm left with either two warnings or none... Yes, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Rimac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126026	Dear Parliamentarian, you can have your opinion and vision and as head of the local self-government unit you have the right to propose your budget, but since this is a law that regulates and if you as a future candidate and candidate in local elections so far, you can also spend on your election promotion, as well as for your candidates on lists for a representative body, our obligation of the legislator is to provide minimal resources for the work of these members of the representative body. Since we know that the new tax reform, however, has returned almost means 2 billion kunas, units of local and regional self-government, I don't see this as a burden for local budgets, and let me know about local budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126027	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya asked for a word, so I could just finish the replicas. Wait, that's up to me. That's up to me, not you. We'll have replicas before, and after that you'll be looking for whatever you want. Let's move on, Mr. Grmoy, here you go, as a replica, see... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126028	I thought to the chairman that I had the right to ask for a break at the moment that I think it's necessary, but well, you're not allowing it, you're playing again for HDZ. So I had a question meaning, as regards what Professor Podolnjak and counterpart Pranic have already pointed out, where you impose units of local self-government and Mr Pranic as chief and city and municipal councils, what will be the amount to be given to political parties, and that money used by local self-government units goes to central governments, it is clear that you are preparing for campaigns, that you need, because HDZ is never enough money and now you want to raise that money. [[But you're right and you'll get it.]] Also, you bring here and you want to impose, i.e. to regulate the funding of the referendum, and yet you have not passed the referendum law and it is clear what your position on the referendum is, and you want to ban all referendums, as Professor Podolnjak said, for you only a dead referendum is a good referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126029	Thank you, ma'am. A Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126030	I thank the honourable parliamentary representative, it is a matter of the Statute itself and the statutes on the financing of political parties and independent representatives to whom the account is paid funds for regular annual financing. But again, this is not essentially an imposition against the local self-government unit, but this is exactly the means for the work of members of representative bodies in units of local self-government in which the leaders feel that their work is not important, that they may be raising their hands, and their work means worth 1 kn per year. And we didn't set the amount maximum, so we put in minimum amounts, which means if the fiscal capacities of local and regional self-government are slightly higher, they can also allocate more funds. As for the referendum itself and your position on the referendum, the legislator wants only transparency in the referendum issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126031	Thank you, Mr. coat of arms, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state. I would have one question specifically related to the provision of an article. 57th Law. And it is very simple, why politicians, above all local leaders, such as Milan Bandic in Zagreb, are allowed to spend hundreds of thousands of kuna in the campaign without having to show it in campaign reports. Milan Bandic, in the campaign, will be able to fly around the whole of Zagreb again, and only in a report he published after the campaign is completed will he have to show it. In fact, let me explain to you what this is about, Article 57, you have defined a new method of accounting costs, which will allow exactly what I am saying to be accepted, to receive the service, and to book only one day in the future when it is paid. And we know how this works especially in Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126033	Answer, Mrs. Rimac. There's no need. [[No need.]] Mr. Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126034	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rimac would do well to comment when we are already talking about a referendum and referendum on a bizarre situation that the local mayors can, as the Croatian court has said, decide what is in the interest of, say, the city of Zagreb and spend hundreds of thousands of kuna for me, the wrong political purpose, which is to promote a referendum that advocated some of its political goals that are certainly not prevailing in the city of Zagreb. So in particular, Mayor Bandic spent several hundred thousand kunas on Mrs Markic's referendum. And it would be as correct as it can't be financed by political parties that the head of some unit of local self-government can't say that's in our interest and give public money for the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126035	Mrs. Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126036	Dear Parliamentarian, it is not a question of the leader himself, it is a question of whether the citizens themselves will respond to this referendum, whether they will support it and what they will give. The law clearly meant that the regulation of the financing of the referendum was in line with the size of the unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126037	Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126038	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, I think the law is good and it certainly should have been passed because it is in this assembly that often calls for morale that this concept is entirely foreign to them. So they were selected in the election lists in front of one political option and at the constitutive session they are already in the second or third option with a view to obtaining some material benefits and then these political leaders are renting their own space, etc. First of all, I would like to stress that HDZ has an unconditional opinion for the fifth year in a row and last year has received and again unconditional opinion, meaning without any warrants and recommendations, which means that it manages the finances in a good way. When we talk about the headquarters of political parties, it is not prescribed that everything must be in Zagreb, some can also be registered in Vrgorec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126039	Time, time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126040	I would like to thank the honourable parliamentary representative. I just need to point out once again and say that in this proposal of the law we finally define and say we legalise the will of the voters, which is that it means that the results are recognised according to the final election results and not at the moment of the establishment of the Croatian Parliament or representative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126041	Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126042	... Your Honor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to ask why there's a hickey on the referendums and what makes it difficult for those who want to make referendums to do so. In fact, the funding of referendum initiatives by the foundation and foundations is prohibited, as I find the wrong team more so that these same foundations and foundations may have objectives that might be achieved by a referendum. So I'm asking you to answer the question why that is, and I'm also interested in why every donation of more than five thousand kunas has to make a donation contract. That's what I think, five thousand kunas isn't some huge amount, and I think there's some extra paperwork and red tape in the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126043	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126044	Dear Representative Pernar, as regards trusts and foundations, they have clearly defined the terms of how they can spend their financial resources and here we only forbid that a referendum cannot be financed by those users means from the state budget, nor does it mean that part of the political parties has no difference in the part of the financing means for political parties and for the referendum itself. And as far as the five thousand kuna contracts are concerned, I find it transparent and thus clearly defines every donor and... in the information system we can clearly examine, I see that today was a significant item in the debate of parliamentary deputies who was a donor to which political party or an independent representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126045	Mr. Vuketic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126046	Thank you. State Secretary, I'd like to ask you an answer to one question to make things more clear. Do you know if there has ever been a party in Croatia that has been granted funds for the financing of MPs or councilors back into the budget? Because if this never happened in Croatia, then we are discussing today in a morale way and when we have a chance to find and gather around the same trough, then we gather together and get on that bed... So I would only ask the answer, has it ever happened since Croatia came to the budget until yesterday that some option to finance councilors or advocates has returned that part of the funds to the budget? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we also have options that have taken over other people's representatives, councillors, and I'm wondering if he's using those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126047	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126048	Your Honor, I don't have that information, but we can ask the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126049	Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126050	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, it is nice to increase the funds for the parties, for the politicians, for the campaigns, but please tell me if right now is the right moment for such a thing at a time when health is cramping in debt, while we are short of 17 billion kuna for pensions, while we have to give 6 billion kuna to Uljanik, while citizens are bending under the burden of everyday life, while they are being blocked, while watching politicians enjoy all possible privileges including very high incomes, that you are coming back to this Assembly looking for more money, instead of telling us already too much, these funds should actually be reduced. What message do you send to these amendments to the Law, to Croatian voters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126051	Answer, please. No, good. Mrs. Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe that you have made a good point of why these amendments have made the necessary changes as well as the referendum initiatives, and it is obvious that the 2011 Law was in some way deficient or incomplete, and I think it is a good thing that the more transparent way is regulated and financed by the political activities of the political parties themselves. However, if we call for transparency, if we say that we want to know every lip that has come from and from whom it has come to a political party, other than those who, of course, forget it for someone, means for some reason to report, then I believe that even the referendum initiatives with full rights have nothing to hide and can equally transparently show their donors. As far as political parties' headquarters are concerned, I agree that they do not have to be in Zagreb, but I think it would be good to check that some phone numbers of a particular political party that do not belong to them, but, for example, to some institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126053	Time. Mrs. Glavak's time. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126054	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. So my question would be how long will we bring here laws concerning local self-government units and political parties, which are not respected? We're passing a series of laws, and these laws are being passed by political parties, they don't respect each other, and there are no sanctions. I will now be concrete, in 2017 we had elections for city and municipal councils, on these lists there had to be 40% women, 40% women, and most political parties did not respect it at all. Are any of them punished? My question, what are we making laws, one or similar laws, that we don't respect? Political parties, local self-government units don't respect it, and nobody gets punished. Do you know how depressing it is for those of us who respect the Law in the units of local self-government, when we know that others are not respected and not punished? How long will we bring such laws that no longer make sense?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126055	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126056	Thank you. But otherwise, the question concerns the Law on Gender Equality, but what I can say is, I believe that voters and our citizens themselves will recognize those who respect the laws and give them confidence unlike those who do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126057	Okay. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126058	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So with this part when you set a minimum standard, the standard that units of local self-government should pay, I agree. I personally believe that public affairs should be financed by public money, so that we do not happen to have certain political, relevant political options, have more money than donations than what they have from the budget, whether state, or local. But on the other hand, I also find it unfair that you didn't limit the maximum amount, even though here you're saying in your explanation that if units of local self-government have money for that, then let them pay as much as they want. I don't think it's a good message, I think it should be limited, that even so a certain standard is established in the Republic of Croatia, that there should be no more messages for those who have more and spend more and those who have less should spend less. And otherwise my principled position, and please your comment, is that public affairs should be financed by public money, and donations should be even more limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126059	Here you go. No, good. And the last one is Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Secretary of State, the debate also mentioned why foundations, or foundations, cannot donate, meant to provide funds for electoral and referendum political activities. I would just point out that according to the article of the two Foundations Act, the Foundation of Assets with some general useful and charitable purpose and no members, means it is a legal person without members, and, of course, opposes the very idea and purpose of the Foundation, that it deals with the financing of some political activities and the like. That's one thing. However, what I think is that, in fact, my colleague Pernar is most insolent, given his whole affair with the alphabet of democracy, that such things can no longer happen, means that no more, that membership is seen in the party at the moment of the elections itself, that publication of the results, but that the moment of constitution is seen as relevant. Well, maybe that's why he found himself hit here, and as far as other things are concerned, I'll keep discussing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126061	Mr. Grmoya, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126062	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club, so we can consult on this bill. In fact, we have already warned in our replicas of the fact that the government is actually intruding into municipal city budgets with this proposal, and it wants to give the Croatian democratic community additional funds for the election promotion. We have a situation, here's colleague Pranic's example here, where he as head of the unit of local self-government suggested that political parties have only one kuna for, uh, work, and now it wants to be imposed here from Zagreb, means to impose a certain amount to go to political parties, so it's totally unacceptable for us. Also, when it comes to what parties have given up, so wherever MOST was in power, there's been a denunciation, we have in Metkovic one kuna to the council, one kuna to the deputy mayor's fee, but here's today, in 17 there will be a session of the city council, HDZ and Jambo repay volunteer fees to deputies, 2.500,00 kuna, paying to mayors, it's a modus operandi. I personally gave up, while I was volunteering, 72.000,00 kuna, Deputy Katarina Ujdur much more because she was much longer, means somewhere over 300,000.00 kuna, so there are such examples, but of course HDZ will never apply it, they want to fill their register. When we talk about what fellow Sokol said, it means, about the mandate and the money belonging to the party, why didn't you apply the same principle to independent MPs, but you hit independent representatives, when they move on to the party, all the money goes to the party, and if they decide to be independent again, then the money remains to HDZ or any other political option, it's open hunting for independent representatives, so it's clear which one is Your intention here with this bill of law. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126063	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The HDZ advocates' club is also looking for a break to further discuss the bill's proposal and to refer to what has been said by opposition MPs in this debate so far through replication. I would recommend to the warm colleagues of MOST, from the SDP, and from the Living Wall that if they do not agree with such a bill that will be voted upon and which does not prevent the funds that will be paid back to them, for example SDP 14 million kuna this year from the state budget, that the doors to humanitarian organisations or MOST have 5 million kunas from the state budget also return and not take for the needs of the MOST. What? When the time comes, you'll find out everything, Gordan. If they, I say, disagree with the fact that there is such a bill, they may even support me since there is no money that can help them gain the trust of Croatian citizens, so they cannot be organised better than they are organised, so their rating is as it is. So, here, I propose to MOST that the money he gets be returned to the state budget, and as far as his colleagues are concerned, yes, he gave his decision to representatives one kuna, but it's interesting, he gave the Citizens' Associations around 750,000.00 kn to those associations that are about ready to go out on the street and protest probably to celebrate the opening of the airport that he announced two years ago that he would build it in the Vrgorac municipality area. And it's interesting how citizens don't sign off on these humanitarian activities that they're declaring here at HS, but here, from month to month, and slowly, their ratings are getting lower and lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126065	Thank you, too. We have, yes, yes, I've seen Mr. Pernar, I've seen it, I've written it down. Here we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure now, first Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126066	Here, so, since he's a colleague Art. In 238, so he calls and addresses here, so he didn't say anything, but he calls and invites the club of representatives of the Most to do something. [[Employment: Article, Article]] I promise that we will give up our money that we received from the state budget when HDZ returns the money, so when Branko Bačić returns the bags he was carrying and who knows where they ended up, we will pay all that money back, and if we have to pay it back to HDZ, it means, because it will mean that you have finally come true as a party and then we will donate it to you, we will donate that money to you as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126067	Time, time, time, second injury requires Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126068	The same injury in 238 is addressed, I don't know, by anything called our side, by me, as far as I'm concerned. 238, I said at the beginning, just please time then. Mr. Bacic, when you build the tunnel that you opened 10 years ago, the airport will be built, don't worry about these tunnels, and as far as the money is concerned, there was another situation in the town of Vrgorec, the HDZ Mayor didn't pay the council fees to the HDZ council, when they were in the majority, they didn't mind, when they went into opposition, they sued the city to pay them council fees. [[/Intruder: Which article?]] It's your modus operanda, Mr. Bačić, only materially.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126069	Here, you've got five seconds more, you've seen it. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Injured Art. 238. The Rules of Procedure, my colleague Grumoja calls me out and makes a lie, so he would invite him to get a little better acquainted with the situation and finally have a subconscious of what was going on, and colleague Pranic, never opened the HDZ tunnel, you know that very well. In fact, we've opened an object that's right under your nose today in Vrgorec. It was just meant to make this your airport [[Intruder: Thank you]] Two years ago there was a place where... [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Bačić]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126071	That, just to say my opinion on these violations of the Rules of Procedure, was the Round Table, not the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We'll get over it and we'll go on looking for parties, breaks and parties if you'd like, Mr. Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126072	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club of independent deputies because I see that from this debate about this Act and party bickering, maybe the time has come to consider that the parties are not financed at all by public funds, but are financed exclusively by donations, that we finally understand who these parties are working for, rather than hiding behind public funds. In addition, now that we have learned and what amount of the parties are getting from 5, 14, 30 or how many million kunas, it seems to me that we are approaching a paradoxical situation that the presidents of the parties have become small governors of the CNB, that they have so much resources at their disposal that Governor Vujčić can be called a colleague, and since this is happening then we are really immersed in the morning of democracy and no party bickering will move us away from this body that is only discussing how much he will grant himself the funds, which by methodology and which will always gather around what I said in the replica, I told her, the Secretary of State that there is no information that one party has ever returned funds to the budget that someone has given her for the financing of MPs and councillor. Until that happens, any concern for citizens is at the level of science fiction and it would be better to discuss the Holy Grail today, not to represent the citizens, to care for the citizens, while we ourselves bring the funds that are truly at the level of the governor of the CNB and therefore to all colleagues today who, I guess only by knowing, have realized that my fellow Vujčića, I congratulate you on this process of a new character dimension.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126073	Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126074	Dear Chairman, we are looking for a break from the Living Wall to consult on the illegal financing of political parties. In fact, the HDZ here is trying to argue that the banishment of others is immoral because they receive money from the state budget by attacking all sorts of things, however, the fact is that the trial of HDZ for the withdrawal from the state-run company of money is under way, it is large amounts, according to witnesses and certain evidence, it turns out that just over 24 million kunas of black money, stolen money, the question is whether HDZ intends to return that money, and why the State's Attorney's office did not press charges against witnesses in that HDZ trial and their former president, who suddenly changed their statements because we saw that in the case of Luke Modric, when he changed his testimony, they suddenly sued him for giving false testimony and in case of HDZ witnesses who suddenly did not remember anything, who suddenly carried no bags, suddenly gave up any of them any of their hands, that they were not getting their hands against anyone. Also, to give false testimony, also an important detail. If it is clear from the charge that the money was taken in black, the paper state of bookkeeping did not correspond to the real or better said if there were indications about it, which is why the State Audit did not question the credibility of HDZ’s accounts but rather accepts them as the Holy Scriptures and instead of abolishing the financing of a party who is seriously suspected of doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126075	I'll have a break by 15 and 15. It's 3:03 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.17 HOURS]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate first by clubs, the first Mr. Robert Podolnjak is in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126077	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary. It is an important law in which we will discuss today, the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendum campaigns. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, we want to send three key messages related to the proposed law. MOST is against any increase in money for political financing of parties, MPs, independent councillors and all who, therefore, have the right to finance. We have always advocated the reduction of funds in both the state budget and local budgets. Secondly, we are against all those provisions that would eventually allow political corruption to be at the level of any representative body, whether it be the Croatian Parliament or any local representative body. Unfortunately, with both the first and second messages, we have to realize that this law is not good. And thirdly, we are against any further difficulties in implementing the referendum, civil initiatives, and unfortunately this proposal, which is ahead of us, is going in the opposite direction, there are a number of provisions that are currently serving to explicitly limit the implementation of the referendum when citizens are collecting signatures and seeking a referendum on a matter. Let me get something more detailed on these key things. We have already pointed out that we are absolutely inadmissible to a provision which prescribes this proposed law and requires that certain minimum appropriations per member of the representative body for the financing of political parties, or independent council members, must be provided in each municipal, urban and county budget. So far, there has been a provision in the law that units of local self-government are obliged to provide certain appropriations in the budget, however, the law did not prescribe the amount or percentage of the ratio in which they were obliged to do so. Unfortunately, this bill makes it seem that although the secretary of state will say that this is a minimum amount of 1000 kn per councilman in a small municipality of up to 8,000 kn in the city of Zagreb, but if you went to multiply all the municipalities, cities and counties, all of them by council, there are over 8 and a half thousand in the Republic of Croatia, if we multiplied it all, we would probably get very large amounts of funds for political parties. I believe that the proposer of the government or the maker of this bill, the Ministry of Administration, has made a very good calculation of how much additional money the political party will receive on the basis of this legislative provision that is proposed. They probably don't mind a smaller town or a smaller municipality that singles out maybe minimum funds or 1 kn per councilman such as Vrgorca, we heard, but certainly there are many more such local self-governments that have been saving on that money, which are more important other projects than the financing of political parties, so even council members gave up that money for some better useful purpose. Now we're making it impossible for them by this legal provision. I seriously consider it a violation of the constitutional autonomy of the local representative body to define its budget autonomously and to be prescribed from the state level that the amount of money must be given to finance political parties. And as we said, it's definitely a harbinger for local budgets, for political parties at the state level, and it's known which party has the most councilors in local and county self-government, who will make the most of their income on that basis and therefore we're not surprised that you suggested it. But we're absolutely against it. Secondly, what we must point out is that, in our opinion, it is a certain possibility of political corruption that is unacceptable. The public has recently reacted to those worst cases when MPs change parties, travel with them budget money, and then the public wonders that it is possible somewhere between the end of the elections, the official and final results of the elections and the constitution of the Parliament to make certain changes, transactions and to actually create some new parties with some new revenue from this budget. And that part is eliminated. In this legislative proposal, it will not be possible. But what's opening up the replacement? Something we have not had so far is opening up, so the possibility of independent representatives or independent council members joining a political party together with that entry also bringing the money they have received as independent representatives or councilors until then, and this dowry brings political parties to which they enter during the term of office. And that money, of course, remains with that political party, whether after some time the councilman decides he doesn't want to be in the political party anymore. So it is possible that any independent representative elected as independent at the beginning of the term of office, by entering a political party, also brings the party a dowry in money but it is clear that the citizens did not want it. Citizens voted for an independent representative, he was elected on an independent list in a general election unit, or as an independent representative, for example, a national minority representative. It's even worse at the local level. Today I heard on the morning show, the first mentioned figure from a member of the State Election Commission, of over 1200 council members, independent council members in local self-government. This means that all of them, if the legal provision were in force, by entering a political party, are also bringing in the money they received, or who belongs as independent councilors, and bringing it into that political party. This can certainly be the source of political corruption, any move of money from, of an independent representative or councilman, and for such citizens voted in the elections, local or state-owned, can be transferred to a political party that did not actually earn that money from voters' votes in the elections. And that's why it's absolutely unacceptable to us. It is also unacceptable for us not to restrict the ability to donate political money more significantly. It is not only 200,000,00 kuna, the amount so far prescribed as a limit for legal persons to finance the annual regular activities of a particular political party, or in an election promotion for some elections. It could be far more money. Take the next example, you have a coalition of four political parties, which together will take place in the elections, had a lot of such examples in practice and at the state level. These parties can receive from the same donor, 4x per 200,000.00 kuna, each political party, that is, 800,000.00 kuna, and when they have a common list for elections, they can get another 200,000.00 kuna. So one donor can also donate a million kuna to the four parties that will take part in the coalition. So the limit isn't just 200,000,00 kuna. For multiple-party coalitions, this money can be even bigger because we allow donors to donate not to one political party over the year, but to a larger number of political parties. The legal limit is exclusively for a single political party, 200,000,00 kuna. Third, we have a disputed involvement of the matter of a referendum campaign in this Act. This matter belongs to the Law on Referendum, and today on the show in the morning a member of the State Election Commission said that, and that is logic. This proposed Law, with these provisions, goes absolutely to the detriment of civil initiatives that are completely different from political parties. In fact, civil initiatives are created spontaneously, ad hoc citizens are looking for a referendum, and the bill treats them as entities that have the same obligations and limitations, as well as political parties that are legal persons, who have regular funding, who have membership, which have regular donations, which are continuously existing, which have offices, employees, accounting and everything else. The same restrictions should also have civil initiatives that literally occur overnight under some bad law that is voted here, a civil initiative is created, organisational committees, signatures are collected, it is created ad hoc, there are no years and months of preparation for it. I am sorry that the Proposer of the Law, not in any of the provisions of this proposal, does not refer to the Code of Good Practice in the area of the referendum. I would draw your attention, because the Republic of Croatia is a member of the Council of Europe, and we must respect the guidelines and recommendations of the Venice Commission, and just to remind you, this year the report was voted in January on the update of these guidelines for fair referendums in the Member States of the Council of Europe in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So, something that's extremely fresh. I ask you to study this report, and how it is proposed to regulate the referendum and campaign, and to fund the campaign. What is proposed is absolutely unacceptable, because it very restrictively regulates the funding of referendum campaigns, and there is one fundamental flaw. By this proposal, you regulate only pro-reference initiatives. So what you're proposing to regulate, so that's an initiative that proposes a particular referendum, collecting signatures, collecting donations, and that's what you regulate. But what about those entities who would go against the referendum? How will they be financed? Do they have the right to a certain financial campaign? You don't have that part, he's completely behind you. You have nothing on the role of state or local self-government. However, what does the code tell you, and what does this updated guideline tell you? They talk about this, firstly, that it is desirable for Member States to write with their legislative framework the possibility of equal funding for both sides in a referendum campaign, because there are always two sides. One that's for a decision, and one that's against it. Therefore, respect for both sides that can be financed from public money. Secondly, what is important is to prohibit the use of public money exclusively by government or state bodies. Thirdly, certain opportunities are prescribed to finance civil initiatives, therefore, the possibility that exists in certain countries, I will tell you an example of German provinces where civil initiatives are partly co-financed or compensated for the costs of collecting signatures. Therefore, the referendum initiatives that have collected enough signatures and where a referendum is carried out successfully are entitled to a cost-refundation. This is a legal arrangement in the German provinces, which is logical because these referendum initiatives must primarily rely on the own resources of members of those who are in the organisational committee and possible donations, but not near what political parties have. However, all of this is missing in this proposed legislative framework that you have proposed, there is no such thing as none of what the guidelines of good practice in the area of the referendum actually say. We expect that you will certainly prepare this in the Law on Referendum and install these Finance Provisions into this Act as necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126078	Thank you, too. Now it's in front of the HDZ counseling club, Mr. Tomislav Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126079	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. State Secretary, fellow MPs, as has already been said, we have before us a proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. Although the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions since the entry into force of the basic text of the Law has been amended and amended several times, it means, 5 times if I am not mistaken, thus improving the entire system, certain problems and shortcomings that require further improvements and more complete editing have been observed. So that's what the secretary of state said, meaning to the new technical rules of HS, this is a situation where especially, and because of the scope of the amendments to the provisions of the law itself, it is definitely necessary to adopt a new law. The supervision of the financing of political activities and election promotion is essential for ensuring the proper application of the Law, timely detection and sanctioning of its infringements, and thus preventing the detection of possible corruption, which is, I think, important to all of us and what we all agree on. Following the implementation of the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotions, difficulties were observed in the implementation of the supervision caused, with the exception of the number of control entities and the way in which the financial reports were delivered and published, as well as other reports and data. This includes reports on half-year donations, donations and election promotion costs, media advertising of election promotions, etc. The financial report shall now be submitted to the competent authorities, the State Election Commission and the State Audit Office, and published as a rule on their own websites of control entities within the prescribed deadlines. The inability to carry out surveillance of the publication of financial reports on the day of expiry of the deadline for all supervisory entities, and the inability to establish the date of publication of financial reports on different websites by subsequent control after the expiry of the publication period, leads to an unequal treatment of supervisory entities or selective sanctioning, which is of course the reason something that is not good and which is the reason, inter alia, and that this Law changes it. Therefore, this proposal proposes that the annual financial reports, half-yearly donation reports, the financial report on the financing of the electoral promotion, the grant reports and the cost of election promotion, and the information on the amount of the price and the amount of the discount achieved in the price for the media advertising of the promotion, and the financial report on the financing of the referendum activities and other elements related to the referendums, be submitted to the competent authorities by electronic means or by means of input into the relevant information system, and should be published on the DIP website. Compared to... The National Election Commission shall be responsible for the management, maintenance, management of the information system for the control of funding. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, transparency of the entire system is certainly contributed in this way. The second thing that's been said about a lot of things here is the matter of the referendum. So, the question is that this Law, apart from political election activities, regulates the matter of referendums. I would point out here again that decisions were made in the referendum mandatory, and these decisions can also be amended by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, we believe it is absolutely necessary for this system of supervision and control to be regulated in order to prevent possible corruption and influence on the part of the party. Thus, the Law defines the reference activity, determines the sources and means of financing the reference activity from own funds and donations, determines the obligation of a special one, the opening of a special account for the financing of the reference activity, limits the permitted amount of the donation of the costs for the financing of the referendum activity, and regulates the issue of supervision and transparency. Now, some obviously mind, one remark that has been made, that it should be regulated by another law. I think it's important to measure, the important content, and not whether it will be regulated in this law or in some other law, and we believe that since political activities are regulated here, that since a referendum on some is also political activity, that the issue of its supervision is regulated here. Furthermore, it is said that it is actually too obstructive, too restrictive, etc. But what really regulates this law is a matter of supervision, it's one important thing and another thing that's made a lot of noise, and that's a question of the source of the funds. So it's prescribed. 81. that anonymous donations, donations by foreign states, donations by foreign political parties, foreign legal entities, budget-funded associations, and legal and natural persons, foundations and foundations are prohibited. So for each of these categories, there's a reason why it's involved. The funds and foundations, we have already said, they, they are also communities of property that serve to promote general useful and charitable purposes and definitely, are not meant to affect political processes in the state. Secondly, which may bother some in the opposition, some political parties are banned from anonymous donations, and donations from foreign states. Now, I also think that at the HDZ Club, if any initiative can be changed to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it will be influenced, and the Constitution will regulate the fundamental postulates of the state order, the state independence arrangements that must absolutely be closed by law, and the possibility of someone outside must be prevented from affecting the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Croatia. And I think it is extremely important, though, that may bother some, it is possible, but I think that transparency in this sense and protection, if you want national interests, to prevent any interference by foreign countries, which may be the preservation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia in this form and is not in the interest, that it should certainly be prevented. I think that's exactly how this law protects the national interests that are often spoken of in this House. Furthermore, the next thing I would point out is the allocation of funds for regular annual financing, it has also been said quite a bit. The law regulates the allocation of funds for regular annual funding from the state budget, i.e. the budget of units of local self-government, and finds that individual parties belong to the resources of a relative number of representatives, i.e. members of a representative body at the time of their establishment, means both to the parties and to the independent lists. So there is much to be said about why the minimum required units of local self-government should actually be spent on the financing of the regular activity of their councilors or members of representative bodies. What I'd like to point out is a few things. First of all, the criteria are prescribed, so given the number of inhabitants, it is therefore prevented that some small units bear a financial burden that they might not be able to withstand. Secondly, colleagues from the MOST who, unfortunately, are not here right now, and now they shed crocodile tears about how local self-government units will endure it. I would only remind this, on this occasion, that the tax reforms of this government, precisely to the units of local self-government from income tax, have provided additional 2 billion kunas for, which would otherwise be in line with the state budget. I also note that it is those who, among other things, are representatives of the Most, who are now diving crocodile tears and complain that units of local self-government will not be able to finance it, then voted precisely against these tax changes and against tax reforms, which gave that fiscal capacity to local units. So unfortunately, there's a lot of hypocrisy to be warned about. Also, what's important is that these coins are distributed according to election success, which I think is fair. If someone is less successful, he'll get less funds, who was more successful, he'll get more. However, given that large parties, such as HDZ, have exactly their own main sources of income, as we know, they need these funds the least. On the other hand, it is precisely independent lists, such as those of which are, for example, MOST and small parties, such as MOST themselves, that these funds are used to obtain funds for personal financing, functioning, which could otherwise not be obtained, and I say, who is big, who is in a big party, such as HDZ, are less needed. And in this way, we can actually say that political activity is stimulated at local level, because it also gives independent councillors the opportunity, given a certain financial background, let's say, that a certain financial force can act more easily, which is exactly what they would otherwise have, which would otherwise not have any practical means available, that there is no such thing. And that's what I would point out, so here we have one twist of thesis, so I think my debate shows that those who are not part of the strong party infrastructures will benefit most from this. And one thing that's important, one important change is that they're currently looking at the distribution of funds, watching the moment of constitution, it's under the current law. This proposal changes, meaning, not the moment of the constitution, but the moment when the final or official results of the elections are announced. I think that's a good solution, I think that's exactly what the transitions actually are dimming about that's quite often being talked about here. Of course, the transitions from parties and the return of mandates cannot be prohibited because it is a constitutional category, but this is exactly how they prevent situations as colleagues of Pernar, which has enabled a practically non-existent party called the Alphabet of Democracy, if I am not mistaken, to receive funds that are not actually entitled to, and that is about 330.000,00 kuna per year. Just by prescribing to watch the moment of the election, or the result of the election, and not the moment of the constitution, that legal hole that has been talked about here is closing. And that's what I think is also a good change in the law, or a new provision that this law should make, means that it should certainly be welcomed. Furthermore, as a measure to promote gender equal representation in the Croatian Parliament or representative body of the unit of local or regional self-government, it is provided for political parties to each elected representative or member of the representative body of the self-government under the gender represented to be entitled to a fee of 10% of the amount provided for by each representative. I think that's good, and that in this way the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality in one way are strengthened, that they are given another additional practical, practical benefit and practical effect, which, of course, we also welcome from the HDZ Club. Furthermore, the law provides for a limit on the total amount of the cost of the election promotion, and it is prescribed that the total amount of the election promotion costs per candidate list in the European Parliament elections should not exceed a million-and-a-half kuna, the current solution. So, the fact is that often it is said that too little turnout in the European elections given their importance, the fact is that European topics are very important to us, since Croatia is a member of the European Union, that a large part of our legislation is actually coming from the European Union, where we are involved in the decision-making process, and for this reason, we support this proposal, indeed, to mean that the amount of expenditure in the elections for the European Parliament, raised by a million and a half, in four million kunas, because that way, through strengthening the political activities of election promotion before elections, is encouraged and made possible, and the greater turnout of the people in these elections, is allowed to get more into their stimulation, in a campaign that will explain problems and topics related to the European Union, and I hope that this is why this provision of the Law will allow the increase of turnout in these very elections, which is of course, which is of course, the great importance of the European Parliament has to have the necessaryness and the necessaryness of the European Union, which is important in terms, and the necessary to adopt the EU legislation. So any provision that stimulates the European elections should and will enable and encourage people to go to European elections should also be welcomed by me, in this sense, and we, on behalf of the HDZ Club, also support this bill. These are the meanings of this most relevant topic, I say I would not now enter all the details, only to mention that there are certain observations of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Law, here are some of them common, here I would also point out that, in that sense, we have, that the words to the final results of the elections that are mentioned in several places in this Law should certainly be brought into line with Article 94. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, which defines the official results of the elections, as the results that are published after all legal means are exhausted in the protection of electoral rights or deadlines for their submission. In this context, the term should be either replaced by the final wording of the official word, or defined in Article 3. the meaning of the concept of the final result of the election. That is, that was the objection of the Committee on Legislatives, and so was the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, if I don't agree, too, so here's what's one of the things that might have to be reorganised. In addition, I say, there are still some nomotechnical remarks and so, we have technical observations, I would not now enter into details since I am on, that I am at the end of time, but certainly apart from these minor remarks, the metric of this Law is good, it brings positive changes in terms of the transparency of the supervision of political activities of political parties and referendums, and for all of these reasons, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126080	It is now up to Mr Milorad Batinic, who will speak on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126081	Thank you, Vice President, honoring State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Many times, and so today, it has been heard through replicas, and through the opening debates, one thesis that just colleagues who are parliamentary representatives at both local and regional level, themselves set out whether political activities, political parties and all that is related to it should be financed at all. A little bit, if hypocritical, whether or not the fig tree in your pocket, but time will tell. By the way, I'd like to start with Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which defines that the establishment of political parties is free, parties must make public accounts on the origin of the funds, on their assets, and, of course, this Law regulates and finance. There have also been previous years, when it has been related to debates, and to the rights of MPs, whether at all MPs need to finance public money, at local level, regional, or perhaps some, I don't know which of some of the stakeholders, interesting lobbyes, and they have to work, behave in public functions with public authority. We at the HNS Club believe that this law is necessary, and that the focus of financing political activities, political parties, should be, to maximise public money. Now, this Law is an improvement, giving a number of quality solutions than they were in the previous Law, and what is important includes the area of definition of funding and referendums themselves. There are also certain dilemmas that the referendum should not be covered by this area, on the contrary. We have had examples of what is a second referendum than the achievement of certain political goals, and therefore we consider it necessary in this Law to be also defined as a referendum. I will very briefly, more or less say, a lot of improvements in the whole, the Law is good, but also we have certain dilemmas, certain questions, so here I will very try and give some of our thinking, and some of our suggestions, I believe that we will consider you until the second reading, it might be good and appreciated. So, when we talk about regular annual funding from the state budget, as far as it's concerned, there's a more or less defined percentage, and now we come to that part of the funding, the annual financing of political parties, independent council members in local, regional self-government units, and there are some proposals for a minimum, which I can fully agree with, because so far there has been no uniform practice at the level of local self-government, there have been also those units that have not paid anything, of course, that is the decision and the jurisdiction of the representative body, but I believe that this is not good. Now, is this minimum, you've ranked units up to three thousand inhabitants, up to ten, over ten, and then big cities. Namely, I took it out here from the Law on Local Self-Government, the bodies of the regional local self-government unit, Article 28, which tells me how many members of city and municipal councils have individual local self-government in relation to the population. Well there are far more reasons, so from the unit, I don't know, 500 to 1,000 residents, 9 members, and over 300,000 residents, 51 members. Perhaps the proposal, to consider, to try, to stretch this part of the minimum funding a little bit, simply because I think, we consider in HNS, based on our proposal to calculate, that if we start with a thousand kuna, that in Zagreb, there are eight thousand kunas too much. By our calculation, the funding minimum, could be somewhere between 6500,00, 6800,00 kuna, weighting. So here is a clear guide, I can explain later, and a mathematical approach to that, I say, if we do, you will work in a way to look at the number of councilors in a certain municipal or city council, or in the county assembly, to be proportionate to the financing of political parties and political activities. That's one thing. Secondly, I'm asking why you haven't thought and predicted this bill, the maximum amount. That's what I'd like, and I think it's necessary, I think it's necessary. There was a lot of talk about the fiscal capacity of certain local self-governments, thanks of course to the Law on Finance and Fiscal Alignment of many units of local self-government, so to speak, and many did not need fiscal balancing because you have a range today of funding 1:8 1:10, from municipality to municipality with equal population. One has budget revenue now 1,900, and the other has some kind of unaccounted for 11 12,000 kuna income per capita and some momentum as soon as they have more money, and for political activities that I do not think is necessary. Because what's the difference between a political party councilman in one municipality or one city that has income I don't know 2,500 kuna or in that city the same size, the same size of work as a city councilman, as a political party that has, say, 10,000 kuna per capita. So he can pay five times as much. I therefore propose to prescribe the maximum amount. I think that would be a win for the law itself, and with far more dignity would be viewed as the work of political parties. Article 8 agrees with the fact that the number of seats received, yes, financing and not the foundation after the constitution, but we also have one dilemma and one question. So Article 8(4), if an independent representative or an independent councilman means he was on the list of a group of citizens, a group of voters, and that list was given a mandate and that list should have annual funding, and now, formally, it does not have to be registered either as an association or as a political party, and if we respect the desire to maybe have a tendency, the desire to become a political option. And now if this independent councilman, we're talking about one person to express myself in order to understand themann band, whether or not, he's going through his own will to the other political party and carrying the money based on Article 8(1), relatively to the number of places he has won by his own free will, he has transferred the money to another political option. It's a big dilemma, and to be honest, I can't find the elements to support it as such. It may leave as a possibility, as liberals we are not exclusive and for limitations, but it may be possible if it gets the consent of all of the voters. It makes some sense to me, so if I didn't know 14, if it was 11, 17, 50 as much as it was on an independent list if everyone signed it he could cross over and transfer the money to a political party. I'd like you to consider this proposal. Furthermore, the cost of electoral promotion, we agree that 1,500, 1.500,000 as planned for the European Parliament's election promotion campaign so far, but we believe that 4,000 000 is too little. Our proposal would be to increase from 1.500,000 to 2.500,000 to one constituency, 12 MPs, and I think it is more than enough and to strengthen the campaign because it is necessary, I think it would be appropriate. Similarly, on the basis of previous experience, especially as regards promotion, election promotions for the president or president of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that 8,000,000 is definitely far, far too far. Simply for what reason, this is about one personalized campaign, that's one thing, another if we take into account 10 constituency units at RH 1,500,000 per constituency times 14, let's try to subtract a little bit, I think we should stay there and that's much more than acceptable. President or President 8,000,000 kunas try to think of it this way, for us definitely not wanting to derogate the role and function of the President of the Republic, but we put 151 MPs who choose the government and put them in the position of the President or President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, his jurisdiction, we believe that he would not want to be auctioned, but he is in half more than too much. 3.500,000 to 4,000 thousand kuna is our proposal to go financing for election promotion, I think it's too much and that's too much, but OK, that's going to be our proposal. As far as the referendum itself is concerned, we believe that it was necessary and that it is necessary, I believe that even if there are, I believe that there will be certain initiatives for referendums, that some things may have to be defined more precisely, but I think it is necessary. Of course, for reasons to know who's standing, follow a trail of money, who's behind a particular initiative. There can't be public money behind the referendum, it shouldn't be because there's something wrong with the system. However, who, who gives money for the referendum, is completely legitimate and we support citizens' referendums, everyone, every citizen who has a particular interest will give their own money or contribute to holding a referendum. But I think that for the sake of transparency, for the sake of responsibility, this solution to the referendum is acceptable and must not happen, it must not happen that anything is hidden or that, God forbid, it does not know from where. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I would like you to consider these suggestions in your first reading. This part of the calculation of the minimum, i.e. our proposal, is also the maximum of funding. Try to classify and valorize with regard to the number of council mandates in local self-government units. I will repeat once again, so for the European Parliament, a million and a half are too little, I think the measure would be up to two and a half million kuna, given the importance of European elections, in order to take the greatest interest of citizens themselves. Likewise, for the presidential elections, we believe that this amount is more than double exceeded, overly necessary and can be used far better than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126082	Thank you, too. Now it's time to share Mr. Bunjac and Mr. Sincic's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126083	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, respected secretary of state, we are today discussing the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, and that would, for example, be like having a Law on pears, apples and coal production. Here, that, for example, has so much to do with each other and we actually have to ask ourselves why this law, this name, came to HS. Well, first of all, we need to know that this Law was not once called that, but was only called the Law on the financing of political activities and by adding the word referendum itself, it is clear that at the small door and quietly wanting to question the referendum camouflage and manipulate it in order to pass some things, as we would say, under the radar. This addition to the name of the referendum in the Law on the financing of political parties, otherwise added to the SDP in 2015, was their genius idea. However, we see that the ruling majority of HDZ now brings SDP's Law to HS. So, in fact, we see that whatever power it is, politics is the same and it is confirmed that HDZ and SDP are in some kind of informal coalition, and it will be in the formal coalition of the moment when the Living Wall grows a little bit more with the SNAGA. Because basically this bill doesn't differ much from the one in 2015, it's a little bit changed, some, articles have been changed, nomotechnical, but it's essentially the same content. Here, let's hear what, let's say, the distinguished counsel Shucker spoke of this same Act in 2015, has a preserved phonogram, I'll quote you now, namely, why this circus about funding a referendum? The circus. So this law forbids that a referendum is launched in the Republic of Croatia, so according to this proposal, no one will ever consider holding a referendum again, and you are now limiting all those who would like to help finance the referendum, so there will be no more referendums in the future. He said that, Mr. Shucker, don't look at me. And now, this same Mr. Schucker defends this SDP Act, so when you're in opposition then one law you attack, and tomorrow when you're in power that same law you support, is that not the first time, that's what you did, and when it was the marijuana Act or the Live Wall hemp six months ago, then you said that's the disaster Law, we're against it, e. after six months, it's super law, we're for it now. And why is that? Because you suggested it, and that's where we see the meaning of HS, a robot agent who when he gets a text and tells them to attack the law, they attack, when they're told to defend that same law, then defends him. Everything's on the way, by order, all that matters is who wrote it. Well, here comes the appointed representative, let's say, I'm 100% certain that if I said now, I'm ready for a coalition with HDZ, I'd be kissed by Mr. Schucker, I'd say Bunjac, so you're the greatest genius. It's HDZ policy, it doesn't matter what it's proposed, but that's HDZ's, that's the point, and they can, therefore, pass the SDP Law and admire it even though they think people forgot what happened four years ago, but phonograms do exist, now exist by new audio and video and video and session and everything is recorded, can't just be called to syncope and amnesia anymore. So, we're talking, sorry about the expression, about the circus or the law or the law, which means the basic problem? Why can't referendums and political activities be evened? So because political parties get money from the budget, and the referendum initiatives don't get money from the budget, it's not the same. HDZ gets 30, 40 million kunas, they can organise 20 referendums a year, 100 protests, because they have money, they don't need any donations, they don't need any volunteers, they have members, they have everything, they have accounting, they use it, they abuse state institutions, they don't have a problem. But a civil initiative, let's say, people who fight LNG terminals, say, or something like that, they don't have swears in their pocket, they don't have people, they just have, as they say, human solidarity and they can't raise those funds, and that's why this law is connected that in some way they don't give them those funds, they don't give them, or they don't give them. So what does HDZ suggest? For example, the HDZ suggests that this is who gives the money for the referendum initiative must conclude a grant agreement. Why would someone have to make a contract if there's no two-way shop, if there's no countermeasure to the contract, how does it exist? Not in sponsorship, the sponsorship agreement that when it's sponsored, you give me money, I advertise you, it's in the contract, but there's no donation to it. There's nothing wrong with it, the citizens' initiative, the citizens' initiative is not obliged to give the donor any, so of course, here's the support to Mr. Shucker, we never doubted it. [[No, let's not argue, please.]] So he comes into my word. [[Intruder: Please nice, please speak please Mr. Bunjac.]] But, well, just a little while longer, I can see that some suspensions are being mentioned, so soon they'll all be on the same bed, but good. [[You're right, you're right. Go on with your speech, please.]] It's the right of Mr. Grbin to take my word for it, since there are no arguments to report himself on behalf of the club. So that's what this is about. HDZ and SDP cannot come up with a referendum, they simply want to ban them and it is this law that is now being legalised and it is just a continuation of censorship policy and the introduction of totalitarianism while these same legislators yell for the Living Wall that they are totalitarians. Where is there no referendum, Mr. Boric? You know where there's no referendum in Saudi Arabia, there's no North Korea, there's no Cuba, and we're standing in the Living Wall not for 1 but for 10 referendums a year, to cut the percentage of signatures to 2.5%, so the signatures can be collected anywhere, not at the stands and offices of the state administration, that they can be collected for a month. We want a referendum on the EUR, we want a referendum on the EU, that's what bothers you, we want a referendum on real estate tax. And what do you want? Banning referendums, banning debates in the assembly, introducing Shakespeare's guillotine, introducing a bonus for MPs, reading in Globus what Mrs. Kasapovic said, so it doesn't turn out that I said who introduced the bonus MPs, read it, let Live Wall go. You simply do not want to hear the opinion of the people, you are more concerned with the opinion of one SDP defector than with the opinion of 380,000 Croatian citizens. You're worth more to a foreigner with 1% of the votes now advocated here to give her even more money even though she uses 4 GLAS fees than the opinion of the people. You want, a small group of clicks that fit into one room to decide what will happen to this country, and all in the interest of different interest groups, including those who carry out performances and blockades, which you are now hogging against us, but you will not succeed gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126084	Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126085	Thank you President, colleagues and colleagues for teaching this Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, I absolutely agree with my colleague Bunjec that it is incompatible to bring together political parties and referendums, it should simply be separated, not put in the same basket. The teaching of what this law adopts, which is 8 days to submit financial reports and count signatures, to deliver signatures, is simply too short. I am personally an activist who has participated in three referendums in politics since 2011, from the stand of all those moves until delivery here in the Croatian Parliament, in all these stages I participated and simply with these measures killing the referendum. He's simply physical, field, procedurally inconclusive, he's inconclusive with such limitations. It also needs some confirmation on no debt, it's the same attack on that convenience, on that accessibility, the whole point of the referendum is here I'm a citizen walking down some street you want to sign there, I want and sign, if you have to go there in some administration or in tax some confirmation to take out, when you have to like SDP himself suggested a worse measure, that you have to go to the state administration's office, be careful not to have this available, but to pull a sleeve, the organizer pulls a sleeve we go sir there 10 km to 5 floor before the officers so you'll sign there and all given there, it's just a murder referendum it's just inconductive, nothing, and everything under cover as a larger direct democracy, we're for the referendum, etc., the field is simply it's inconductive. But let's put this all in one broader context, let's remember Mr. Seks's proposal to raise the electoral threshold so that only HDZ and SDP can enter the Croatian Parliament, a few months ago this was brought out to the public. Let's just remember the context, the extra mandate, here's the HDZ no more 45% of the votes, now there's a 30.25 question how long it's gonna be, I told Karamark, the old key that can't pull the Croatian car anymore, and what's going on now, they'd be changing the law to rule until the day of judgment. Here I call you not to add 10 mandates or how many, immediately write a law in the Croatian Parliament 100% of mandates, and 151 mandates immediately to HDZ and give.../incomprehensible/... here and there a bonus to the SDP, do so immediately, so do not fool us in this way, do not twist, twist, manipulate the will of the citizens. Our electoral system is illegal anyway. Election units, compare 4, Osijek, Virovitica to 9. North Dalmatia, Lika. This one has almost 500 grand, this one doesn't even have 350,000 inhabitants. It's against the law, but we keep the election anyway. You've changed the Rules of Procedure of HS. You've narrowed down the debate here, the FINA reports, HACOM reports, you've thrown somewhere on board that no one knows where they are or when they are, except for who's really interested in them. Now you're going with the law against fake news whose proposal we haven't received yet. Fake news and the biggest fake news is just in the government of the Republic of Croatia. In a few hours we'll be discussing planes here, getting military equipment, remonting. Fake news by Mr Krstičević, by Mr Plenković, by Grabar-Kitarović, not to mention Butković's stories about the bridge on Krk, Goran Marić and stories about the refinery in Sisak, Plenković's fairytales about INA or Bošnjaković's announcement of this or that law and its changes. All the things I listed and other things, such as the trial, or the persecution of journalists at HRT who warn about censorship, clearly points to a crawling dictatorship, power at all costs, at all costs we must remain here in position. We're in the Living Wall to facilitate the referendum. In all possible ways and we aim at the Swiss model, 10 referendums a year. That's the goal we need to pursue, not 3 in 30 years. Compare some quotas and weather in Croatia and the countries around us. It is about 50 times harder to collect in Croatia signatures for a referendum than elsewhere. Recently I was with the Vice-President of the Italian Government, they have in their government Mr. Ricardo Fraccara, he is the minister of parliamentary relations and direct democracy, beware, they have a minister of direct democracy who develops tools for citizens to decide against the establishment, that is the path to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126086	Now it's Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic's turn in front of the Advocacy Club for Croatia. Here you go, Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126087	... They're very well-respected secretary of state. High home. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The appearance of this legislative proposal and the strings of the hybrid government of Master Plenkovic, except for the political one has a first-class historical background. We are witnessing an unprecedented procedure in the history of Croatian parliamentaryism. What's this about? Namely, the government of Master Plenkovic and associated families will learn in the history of Croatian politics and parliamentaryism as the first to come from political motive and because of intellectual laziness to reach for the theft of other people's unprotected intellectual property and in the parliamentary procedure with some cosmetic changes so that Vlassi or Turks do not file a legal proposal in relation to the referendum, literally repainted method and glue, from the once powerful sister party whose debris at this point in the assembly is vegetated as a parliamentary opposition and reserve echelon of the government's majority. Namely, gentlemen of the SDP, if it was not clear to you today what the basic reasons for your current political situation and general needlessness are, today you have the opportunity to finally learn about them in the fact that the government of Master Plenkovic is now in the name of HDZ, HNS, SDSS and families, but with the same motives as the Government of Milanović, Pusic is more successful in implementing your policy. That Arsen Bauk from 2015 in 2019 is called Lovre Kuščević, and that the same members of the HDZ who crashed on this legal proposal in 2015, will now be able to defend him with your heart, hide the key reasons why the SDP has become a collapsed and unnecessary relic of the past. You are a political party whose voters, as well as permanent social circles, in the politics of Master Plenkovic, regardless of what the HDZ voters thought, received from you an authentic, reliable and more capable representative, what you, Milanović, Bauku, Grbina and others in 2014 and 2015 did not go hand in hand, as well as in the case of ratification of so-called. The Istanbul Convention has succeeded, and will succeed, Master Plenkovic, the executioner of the same structures, the media interest centres of power which you have both served unspeakably and unspeakablely and who, after Plenkovic's court coup in HDZ, rejected you as an unnecessary and incompetent ballast, as if you never existed. High House, today we have no legal proposal from the government of Master Plenković or his Minister Kuščević, with cosmetic supplements from the Government, the legal proposal of Mr Bauk, Stazić and Grbin, from 2015 is accepted, and will be personally confirmed by the National Representative of Bauk. Not only that, Minister Kuščević went one step further, so according to the People's Representative, Bauk, he anti-cipated and respected all those changes sought by the SDP's NGO satellites in 2015, which were not able to be included in the Final Legislative Proposal because Milanovic's government, which fell into elections a month later. Because of the forgetful, and generally short public memory, let's not say, short minds, we go back a few years. First, 2014 under the impression of the victory of the referendum identity national will, which was opposed by the government of the Troika Josipović, Milanović, Pusic, SDP's constitutional legal mindmaker, Pedja Grbin, in the procedure referred to the protureferendum proposal of the Law on Referendum, whose modified version is soon expected from Kushčević's cabinet. The then opposition of the HDZ Grbin's proposal crosses, quote, the Law on the Disabling of Referendums due to the renewal of the SDP's non-governmental profit sector, whose corifies are now acting as executive secretaries from SEK SDP, I mean GONG, and others continue to unsatisfactory NGOs exorcise and deuncate so-called. Croatian fascism and revisionism, but also because of the proverbial curricula of the property and government of mag. Plenkovica, the coat of arms is also withdrawn several months later from his and Bauk's pâtés as a new palitative protourendum legal substitute, a legal proposal that we are discussing today. What happened and happened in the spring and summer of 2015? It enters a pre-election in which each government, as a rule, strengthens the calculant mentality, and the opposition, as we know, further reaches for a demagogy aimed at obtaining voters, whose will immediately after the takeover of power, of course, is denied. On this same Bauk Grbin's proposal, which is now wrapped in Plenković Kuščević's silk gaitan, with its power, of course, HDZ, presenting itself as a guardian of the national right to a referendum that the anti-national Milanovic government wants to limit. With a superficial insight into the Assembly's high-speed records, we'll notice as actors of old, good and all-known names, something like inventory furniture. Josip Borić, Jasen Mesic, Davor Bozinović, Frano Matušić, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Sunčana Glavak, Davorin Mlakar, Ivan Šuker, Eceter, of course I don't forget there and the duoque Branko Bačić. What did the gentlemen say about the same thing in May 2015, and what will they say today? Among other things, today's Constitutional Court Judge Davorin Mlakar has seen the key principled lack of this legislative proposal, which is mixing pears and apples. Namely, on behalf of the HDZ, Judge Mlakar resented the international Milanovic government's identification of two political incomparable entities, the course referendum of elections, and the inadmissible replay of the financing mechanism of both. On behalf of the HDZ, the MP and Judge Mlakar on this same legislative proposal has been shot down and because, I quote, it makes it impossible to hold a referendum, and by the constitutional judge it is not good for development, no less, no more, no more, no more national, but I quote, direct democracy. On that occasion, he was particularly inspired and psychically represented by Shucker, as if he were spoken by Mrs. Markic, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club. This same legislative proposal that stands before you, he called, quote, a circus about the financing of the referendum, concerned about the development of direct democracy and the perspective of the referendum, the People's Representative Shuker, lucidly and with his weight he noticed that according to this same proposal, I quote, no one will ever consider holding a referendum again. All of these were foolish arguments that we, on behalf of the club Independent for Croatia and today, support, despite the fact that the HDZ, because of the change in the general party line, gave up, had been audited by a fellow self-critic who would be listened to by the public during the debate. Of course, the HDZ Club's views were not impressed by Milanovic's government and Bauk Grbin's legal combination. In fact, something completely different happened. In the pre-election year, the objections came from an unexpected place, from the interrupted union giants and union collectors of SDP NGOs, such as GONG, and everything under the password of the day, I quote, Milanović's excavation of democracy will not pass unlike Plenkovic's post-sponsoring event, which today under changed circumstances, with the brief consent of then loud NGO cloake, of course, will pass. The key objections came from the State Election Commission, which in April 2015, in its clear statement by Mr Bauku, unlike today's silence, with this same legislative proposal, came under a key objection that it is impossible to even the rules of financing political activity and referendums in one law. In addition, the DIP has gained an impression that today, for some reason, it has evaporated to quote myself, the complicated provisions on the financing of the referendum, trying to make it difficult for citizens only to launch a referendum. What do we have today? Travestić's so-called Plenkovic. stability, the political party schedule on the surface has changed with Tubok, under the surface of the political class remained the same, divided into two sections of the same Brussels Cominterne occupied by the disabling of change and the fear of the Croatian people, so on. pulsism, something like that when Mrs. Pusic feared the pensioners would lose their pension if they did not vote to join the EU in a referendum. Still, some things have changed, and some of them are the same. For example, National Representative Bačić remained Branko Bačić, as well as at least 10 people who are sitting at the HDZ club today. The deep state has a new Prime Minister, no longer called Zoran Milanovic, today responds to the name Andrej Plenkovic, Ivan Vrdoljak and Ivan Vrdoljak, as well as Milorad Popovac, and the extreme political antiquities Furio Radin. Arsen Bauk is now not called Lovre Kuščević Conclusion Finally, the club Independent for Croatia, as a nationalist political platform, has never divinated, nor a referendum, or so on. direct democracy, from case to case, has supported them in principle. [[Thank you, thank you for the epithet.]] Independent for Croatia as a gathering of politically responsible national people who have never lost sight of all the advantages, but possibly lack of restrictions and abuse of civil referendums, it calls on the proposings to withdraw from the procedure this SDP cowardly egg that was in front of us in the cellophane of Plenkovic's government. The HS cannot decide responsibly on the different, possible and reasonable and meaningful provisions in relation to the financing of the referendums set out in this proposal, without knowing at the same time the content of the new Law on Referendum. Anyone with little political and legal brains, as well as a fundamental political morality, who is not busy with Brussels by curbing people's will, knows that the amount of donations, different procedural issues, cannot be decided in the same way, if the process of starting the referendum requires 10% of the total number, such as today in the Republic, or 1 or 2%, if the collection of the signature takes 15 days, 4 months or 18 months as in Switzerland. Gentlemen, first of all, let's discuss the new referendum law, an integral part of which should be the financing provisions, let's bring the best to the Croatian people, the most useful solution in accordance with Croatian, national and social surrenders and contemporary national needs, bearing in mind both the various permanent and insurmountable divisions and the historical wounds. Finally, given all the advantages, but also possible limitations, and the lack of direct democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126088	Thank you very much. Everything is as you wish, but below your level to call the NGOs a cloak. What if someone called your club a cloak, you'd get angry. Thank you very much, let's move on, Robert Jankovics in front of the club of MPs, for those who don't know cloak, let's go to the Wikipedia, Robert Jankovics is in front of the club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed secretary of state, secretaries, secretaries, therefore, first reading of any law, as we could hear this time, therefore, in previous discussions gives one very, very broad interpretation of the debates. On behalf of the club, I will try to deal with the metrics, so what it says is, the law is called, the law on financing, therefore, political activities and election promotions and referendum activities. So, when we talk about this Law, it is indeed relatively new to the date, therefore, the basic Law of 2011 for those who may not know, especially the esteemed public, so it was one of the conditions of accession of the EU Republic in Chapter 23 and then we were dealing exclusively with it in the first phase, so by regulating the financing of regular political activities, it was later, therefore, complemented, by the regulation of the financing of the electoral promotion, and the proposal of this Law would be complemented by regulation, exclusively, therefore, the financing of the referendum activities. And we think, therefore, at the club that, that there are good solutions here whoever suggested them, the solutions are good and that the direction of thinking in this proposal is good. So when I say that, I can start with the first segment, maybe the one that has, like, eight years of history, that's funding, so the changes in funding for regular political activities. Here we have 4 of those solutions that we think are excellent and that they lead in the right direction, therefore, to disable any stage of corruption, so the first of them that we consider a good solution is that the amount of which political parties, either from the municipal, urban or state budget, is obtained, determines, therefore, through the final results of the elections, not through the way, not at the time of the constitution, by the representative bodies or HS. Here, and these days we listen and watch a lot about it, and we think this legal solution will help avoid possible corruption in the future. As for determining the minimum amount, which, therefore, the municipal council, the independent, will gain power from the municipal budgets, we consider it to be lifelike. In many units of local self-government in Osijek Baranja County, the amounts are actually municipalities and cities were obliged to pay the part related to the financing of the political activity of independent MPs, they were funny amounts of around 100, 150 kuna a year which, therefore, was not enough for the banking costs that those representatives were, so they were obliged to open up to, and about the fact that here we could hear that it would potentially burden municipal budgets I do not consider to be enough, we do not consider it a living cost, so that determining the minimum amount would be encouraged by a number of local self-government units that this minimum amount of provision for the amount which therefore independent councils and other political parties in these municipalities would receive so much of an impact on the budget if we even looked at the total amount for numerous municipalities and cities, and could be reduced by the most of all the local ones, so much as possible by the locals, so far as the most of these are possible from the local ones, and the local ones, which are possible, and the most of the local ones, which are possible, and the most of the ones that the most of which are possible, the most of the most of the most of the local ones, which are possible, and the most of the ones that are the most of the most of the most of the locals, which are possible, and the most of the most of the locals, and the locals, and the locals, and the oness, and the most of the most of the ones that are the most of the ones that are the most of the most of the most of the most of the most of the ones that are the most of the most of the most of the most, and the most of the most of the most of the most of 1,000s, the most of the most of the most of the most of the most of the most of the money, and the most of the most of the most of the money, and the money of the money, are possible of the most of the money, and the money, that are possible of the most of the money, the money of the money, the money of the money of the money of the money of the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, and the money, the money of the moneys, the moneys, the money, and the money of the money, the money, that are the money, and the As for the third thing that we consider useful in the part of the law on, in part of the law relating to the financing of regular political activities, we believe that the reduction of penalties or infringements is also very life-saving because we had the fact that a number of independent council members who failed to submit a report for 2012 to 2015 passed the agony of law enforcement courts following the misapplication of the State Attorney's Office where they were charged with payment of around 70,000 kuna because they did not report the State Audit and the State Election Commission, and I must say that all these council members or a large majority of them did not receive more than 100 kuna in those years or received no more than 0 kuna at all, and were charged with 70,000 kuna. Fortunately, however, the High Violent Court rejected these indictments of the DORH so that all the independent councilors did not end up in bankruptcy or blockade. Therefore, we support that those penalties for those who, despite all these infringements, are reduced in spite of all these provisions, that despite all this, they are not followed to the last letter of this law, so I am talking about amounts ranging from 2 to 20,000 kuna, or in some way more life-threatening than a possible offence. The fourth thing that was very current here in the phase so that funding for regular political activities is said to happen if an independent representative moves to the community level to the political party to be followed by money, so that it can stimulate possible corruption, so from life experience I can say that coming to the representative body of any local self-government as an independent councilman is much harder than through a political party and I find it hard to imagine that an independent councilman will cross into the party just because he does not know how to carry out the administration prescribed by this law. So, I think we have the same attitude at the club that it's not life and it's going to be very little, and even if it is, it won't be for that reason. What is a real doubt on the financing of regular political activities is a question of whether it is a good solution to be a total, that political parties, independent representatives are at all financed from the state budget or local budget, or as some of my colleagues have suggested that this is regulated exclusively by donations, we believe that funding from the state budget and understands if the public is still better off because it ensures the impartiality and independence of political parties and representatives, because if their political work depends partly or largely on funding from donations, then it could also increase the impact of these donors on the work of political parties. So although I understand that populistly it sounds very good, I think that funding political parties from the state budget is also a lifesaving solution. So to recapitalise the part relating to the financing of regular political activities, we believe that the 4 ideas that I have cited are part of the fact that the amount is determined by the number of MPs that are determined by the final results of the State Election Commission, not by the time of the establishment of a good solution, and that the setting of a minimum amount is especially for representative bodies in local self-government units a good solution. All those who can, want to give it up can deny it, that it is therefore a reduction of the infringement provisions in accordance with life in accordance with the real state of affairs or that it is very difficult to imagine that this idea will be independent, that if an independent representative passes over to the party during the term of office and therefore delegates the mandate to do so, I think it will be very little and that knowing from the experience that it will not be because I cannot act as administration. As for the part of the election promotion law, therefore, I can agree with one of my previous colleagues that an EU-wide election of 1.5 to 4 million kuna seems excessive especially in the light of the world in which we live here in the Republic of Croatia today may be considered not to be exactly 4 million but to be less. And we welcome the fact that it finally defined what happens to the funds that remain in the special purpose accounts after closing or after completing the election promotion. And that part of the law, so we're talking exclusively about the metrics that have determined the most noise so far, the most topics are related to the funding of referendum activities. We have an opinion at the club that maybe that part of the funding of referendum activities could have been put into the law on the referendum that we have in the draft legislative activities for this year, but if we decided to solve it like this, then let's solve it like this. It should be said once again if for no other reason, then because of the Croatian public, this law does not regulate much of what my predecessors here have said about the referendum it will be defined so when the referendum law comes here. We are today trying to redefine the funding of referendum activities. I will illustrate exactly how much of this is true for all of our viewers who have not read the proposal of this law in part of the law dealing with funding, the draft law dealing with the financing of the referendum activity, the sub-titles are the following: Sources from funding, funding from their own sources, funding from donations, donation records, grant limits, grant collection deadlines, Special account for financing, opening a special account, closing a special account, limit and report. So in the section relating to the financing of the referendum activity, this law deals with what it writes, which is the financing of referendum activities, I am sure that everyone who is sitting here we want, we intend to make the funding of the referendum activity as transparent as in the last referendum initiative several times promised that we will be informed about where the money came from, what it was spent on and that everything will be transparent together. Therefore, this Law aims to regulate financing rather than measure. As for the ban on funding by my predecessors, I must say that for political parties and in the current version of the law, it has been so and I consider life to be so for referendums, especially what someone has mentioned for so far foreign states. All in all, the bill is good, perhaps, to increase the funds for the EU's promotion of elections may be the 4 million kuna with the current million-and-a-half kuna seems to be an exaggerated invitation from the ministry to think about it. However, there are excellent solutions here that will help therefore work as representatives, especially independent representatives at the local level but I think it will help one general transparency of all political activities in the Republic of Croatia. So at this stage, we support this bill and we urge you to consider whether they are excessively involved in increasing the resources available for promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126090	Thank you, Mr. Jankovics. Now in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have before us a new law on old things, very old and for the Croatian political reality very interesting. For eight years, we have been struggling to at least a little bit with the customs of political parties and various political initiatives to muddle, hide, to darken money through various informal funds, to non-transparently non-finance their activities. As you remember, the whole country was shaking because of an affair called FIMI MEDIA, shaking until today, but these are mild vibrations today. It's mild vibrations, we haven't come to that cherry getting someone out of the track, so let's see if it's really true that only one third of the promotion can be financed regularly and two thirds below the table. Because it was a habit that the European Commission saw in us as a national sport to milk public enterprises and many other public institutions or institutions and public sector legal persons to meet the needs of political parties. This was done in sophisticated ways through promotion, promotional films, marketing services, all kinds of wonders. Later, it went one step further, and then it was no longer done so directly but turned around. So then you have a case where someone spends 25, 26 million on your campaign, no matter what the limit there is 5 times less. And that's what the state audit says, all black and white, not only was no one responsible for it, but no one even returned the money that remained in the account because the candidate normally takes that money to himself. And today he's one of the most important political actors in the country. In fact, we haven't moved anywhere in eight years. The fact that we have been pressured by the European Commission several times has changed this law because people have actually seen that we have exceeded every measure does not mean that we have given up the ugly habits that our political parties have. They would never exist if they had to rely on their own membership. And it would be even worse if they were expelled from public budgets because only then would the area of corruption be opened because political parties would become an open target for companies, lobbying circles and those whose money was never a problem. Why am I saying we didn't get very far? So here's eight years after that 2011, when the law that this one is amending is passed, we have a case of the general secretaries of one political party publicly saying that she's defending the party from smudged some money says we want we can take the money off the bill and black out that you, with the most modern forensic methods, don't know how it happened because you can't trace it. So when the secretary general of a political party who is parliamentary tells you this, then probably a man knows what he's talking about. This law is trying to solve a lot of problems but it won't solve any of them. The objective government has come to the question of how to bring this matter to order, so it would prefer this funding law to solve the whole problem that exists when the Institute is a referendum in response. If they could have written in this law that the referendum just couldn't be held. On the other hand, we are so that this space that has been completely unregulated so far is made transparent. We don't mind holding referendums on the condition that the conditions under which it is done, who does it and whose money. The referendum is not a cheap sport. The referendum cannot be conducted by a group of enthusiastic citizens because it costs and simply costs by default. It's not just about volunteer hours, it's about renting public areas, as you know, all cities and municipalities charge for it, it's about a whole series of costs that require fast communication, deadlines are short, transfer of all these signed papers, control, arrival in Zagreb, surrender, all that costs. If you want to get to those who will be potential signatories of your referendum initiative, you have to answer, you have to be in the media, you have to reach out to them with your information, explain what is actually behind your initiative. Some will do so so that when they come to a village like I saw in my eyes, says, this is a referendum against Pupovac, sign, I approach and say forgive me, I know of two referendums that are currently in circulation but I have not heard anywhere that there is a referendum against Pupovac. Since they saw that I was not of the same nature, then they stopped explaining but the people who were there witnessed how they were trying to win them over. It all cost, we don't mind if we know whose money it is. Let it be known whether a referendum is funded by a large company that has financial interests, whether it finance some kind of political circle that cannot or must not go to elections, and especially through this it wants to realise its political interests, whether it may be a religious community that organises to corrupt or reduce the space of freedom of another, whether aggressive atheists organise it to reduce the rights of believers, anything is possible because there are people in all these segments who have money. So let the public declare who and how financially stands behind a particular initiative and the citizens must remain free to decide whether they want to approach and support it or not. So, on the one hand, we recognize and respect the government's efforts to redeploy this law a little bit cosmetically to say what's wrong with the financing of political parties but also in some way with a mockery, we look at the way they do it because the fact that we live in 2019 and that this law has no idea what advertising is on social networks, communication on social networks, and that it doesn't want to put it here at all because it says, it calls for the Media Act. It's like the Media Act is above this law. And we know that the most successful political projects right now and in the future are communicating right through these platforms. If we shut them down, then we've opened up a new space for them to do as they please and that we citizens or as politicians who represent them, we'll never know in what financial conditions it's been going on. That's why we, as GLAS and HSU, will be abstentioned by the drafts of this law without any reason, which contains certain provisions that we like as it contains many holes that are unfulfilled and we don't like it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126092	Thank you, too. Now it's in front of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Pejo Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor. State secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished colleague Bunjac, I don't see him. Here, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I will talk about our view of this law and why we cannot ultimately support this law. Of course, what we support is the accession of this debate, we support the accession of the debate, we support changes in the financing of political activity and promotions because we know it is necessary. What is certainly necessary because we have seen it in practice, because we have seen in practice the abuses of this institute is to settle the issue at which political parties acquire the right to finance from the state budget and we believe that a good solution that has been accepted and accepted from our proposal is no longer linked to the establishment of the Croatian Parliament but for the moment the election results are announced. This will avoid part of the illogicalness and irregularities that are visible today in that radical example of Mr Pernar and the alphabet of democracy. The second part we certainly support and which we think should be regulated is the issue of funding the referendum promotion. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think we're all aware of those who swore in this country to the family, swore to the people, and at the same time all they did was attack national minorities, sexual minorities, attack others and different ones. At the same time, those who swear to the people who attack all those who don't like them, like a snake's feet hide from where they got the money for it. As a snake's feet hide from where they got the funds for their work, where they got the funds for their funding, how much of it was, how they spent it. It does not occur to them to announce it even though they claimed to do so in the campaign, they changed their minds very quickly. They attack everyone around them, attack others for indemnity, but when they themselves should show the Croatian public how much they spent and where they got it, the government vow of silence,... However, the problem with this proposal is, and for a wonderful miracle I will agree with Mr. Hasanbegovic, one serious logical mistake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are going to the referendum system, which is clearly unregulated and which should be addressed, to apply the rules that will regulate its funding. We haven't arranged the signing, we haven't arranged the topics that can be decided in the referendum, we haven't arranged anything but we will arrange the funding of the referendum promotion. Dear colleagues and colleagues first amend the Constitution, after which the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, amend the Law on Referendum, and only after that, can we discuss regulating the financing of the referendum promotion. Far from me thinking it shouldn't be done, but it's the last car on the train that's been waiting for us for a long time. Here's another thing that I'm going to agree with Mr. Hasanbegovic, I guess I'm on my way today, which is that this law is largely prescribed by the law that the SDP's Representatives Club sent in the procedure in 2016. Yes, we should have arranged that then, that is, we should have done it by the end of 2015. Is that our responsibility, is, are we going to hide that responsibility, we won't. We should have done so, however, we left the rulings with a good proposal which they decided to accept. And many now say they've accepted it in 90%, yes. And many say, that because they accepted it in 90%, we should support it, but you know, that folk saying, the devil is in the details, and here are the details of the 10%, the 10%, which is why we won't be able to support this law. Allow me to continue this debate to explain what problems these problems are and which derogations are both from logic and from the proposals that the SDP has referred to in the procedure. It primarily refers to the question of sanctioning. As you know, the Committee on the Constitution of the Croatian Parliament has devoted a lot of time to sanctioning political parties in the term of office since 2012-2016, because they violated the provisions of the law on the financing of political activities. We from the SDP might know the most about it. But the Constitutional Committee under my chairmanship never missed sanctioned anyone who violated the law and it worked then, but the same provisions required that all 500 Croatian municipalities and cities do so, regardless of what they had 7,9 council members, regardless of what professional services contained 1 or 2 persons. And then we saw that there was a serious problem in the decision to sanction political parties, to break the law on financing political activities, to make political bodies, in which corners. The representatives of these parties shall sit. And that is why, in the bill of law that we have prepared and which we have referred to in the procedure, we have provided that the whole sanctioning and control business is to be left to the State Election Commission, as an independent, independent and professional body that is trained to do so. You do not accept it in this law, namely, in art. The 64th Law, for the offenses over annual financing, continues to be missed by political bodies, to decide whether they are initiating them, and it is totally unacceptable and I hope that you will adopt this complaint and correct the bill. Let's move on, by law, when we referred him, when we worked on him, we predicted there were certain restrictions, to donate political parties, by natural and washed persons in one year, and that's good. At the first ball and you keep it, but as the State Secretary said in her opening presentation, it is now being doubled, that is, if in one year elections, and we know that in Croatia elections are almost every year, then those funds, which will be donated for a special campaign in that year, do not go with the sum limiting annual funding. And now you imagine the situation when we have local elections, when we have more than 500 campaigns, when we have more than 500 campaigns per unit, and then we add to that campaign, especially for the chief, especially for the council, etc. And then the limitation goes separately, applies to each of these campaigns. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the 200 thousand kuna limit per year for legal persons and 300 thousand kuna for natural persons, this provision of the law, remains a dead letter on paper. And now interested, say, an entrepreneur, who is good with one political party, and given the authors of this law, let's say HDZ will be able to shake out its political option, which is prone to far more than those limited 200 thousand kunas, probably expecting something in return. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I said, the devil is in the details. Let's move on, remember the president of the Republic of Croatia, who beat one in the campaign, then none of what she promised to do, and one of those things was when they caught her in the driveway, which will be with the money she gets for refunding the costs of a political campaign. As a result, the President of the Republic ended up at the Committee for Conflict of Interest, it was determined that she was in conflict of interest, why, because she wanted to dispose of her money on the one hand, because she wanted to determine where the money would end up and she didn't want to pay the tax, so she gave the money to the political party and told them where to direct it. What we've all been appalled about, what she's repeated, the president ended up on the committee to decide on a conflict of interest, this law is legalized, and it's going to be the most normal thing right now. One little detail, two or three words in one sentence, and what was unacceptable suddenly becomes acceptable. There's more, especially because of my colleague Shucker, because I think he's going to figure out what the problem is because of this provision. In law, we talk about what anonymous donations are and then in one line we say that in order to prevent an anonymous donation, each donor should be recorded between the other and the identification number, which, of course, we will all agree on and then stands or stands. And then there goes the second verse, which says it's for a donation, not to be anonymous, enough to write the name, last name and address of the donor. That's what's in the law, and I'm hoping, fellow Joker, because I know how much you've advocated the introduction of a personal identification number, that you'll back me up and help stop this. Because it will happen to us again, that the dead and the nonexistent donate. So, the name, last name and address, in the modern state, in 2019, cannot be enough to identify a person, especially, when talking about donating political parties and political activities. However, according to this proposal by the HDZ or, I apologize to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I can do so. But that's not all, either. The audit limit rises from 100 to 230 thousand kuna. So those who spend less than 230 thousand kuna, so it was also an independent list, at the level of one unit of local self-government, and I think that's enough money, will no longer be within the reach of the State Audit, completely unacceptable, but that's a detail, where it changes in just one number, what we have suggested. The rest of the article remains the same, but the detail, it changes. And for the end of the treat I asked the secretary of state in my own line, but the secretary of state didn't answer that, article 57 of the law, something that when you first read the law, you probably won't even notice, but when I tell you what it is, you'll see, that the devil, as I said, lies in detail. Article 57 provides that business books, based on them and reports published by water according to the monetary accounting principle, are to be made in place of the principle of origin as provided for in our proposal for a law. Accounting is not my profession, and I allow myself to make a mistake when I explain what makes the difference. According to the monetary principle, you will record events, only when paid, according to the principle of origin, the event is recorded when, in a specific case, goods or services are delivered. What does that mean in practice? This means, in practice, that Milan Bandic, can uncontroll the whole of Zagreb, and during the campaign, give a financial report, which says, that he has not spent a single kuna. But look, it's a detail. The whole article remains, just instead of the principle of creation, we move on to the monetary accounting principle. Under normal circumstances, it's perfectly legitimate, both acceptable, but when we talk about financing political parties and publishing financial reports, this leads to every political option, which has a big enough impact on the service provider, pressing to pay him later, to be able to ensure that during the campaign he says, so I'm not spending anything, so I'm the best. I don't take anything from you, and then when the election goes through, the puff goes a million kunas and I don't know how many in some kind of discounts, hidden donations, etc. So much for party financing. I'll say a few words about the referendum, it's good to settle, but that's something that should come to an end. However, how good it is to settle it, I ask you a question, this law, we only foresee the possibility of funding those who are for the referendum issue not those who are against, and it is quite legitimate in every referendum, and so, for example, when we enter the EU, to be against the issue. As we have arranged for, so in the same way we must regulate against, but there is no basis for this referendum law, and therefore it is not possible to regulate it now and therefore it will not be possible to regulate it until we adopt the Law on Referendum, which will fully regulate the referendum promotion, as well as those who are in favour of the proposal and those who are against it. For the very end, allow me another 2, 3 sentences on the alphabet of democracy, we all agreed that the situation, in which the political party does not go to the elections, i.e., the performance, so it gets 20 votes, and then, after that, it gets a present from a parliamentary representative, unacceptable. It's unacceptable for that party to get funding, and then that representative leaves, so that money stays. For this reason, I propose that my colleagues and colleagues from the government consider, that in the transitional and final provisions, we regulate this situation and that we provide for the possibility that, for the current assembly of the Croatian Parliament, such political party should be denied further funding, and that the money that was to belong to the concerned should remain in the budget. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I have already said, the SDP Representatives Club is pleased that you took a good deal of the law, but because of those 10% because of those details, we really can't support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126094	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino, for the individual debates, my dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126095	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state of honor of fellow Members and colleagues. During the debate on behalf of the Club, Sokol expressed the club's position on the Law on the financing of political activity, election promotions and referendums. I took the floor to support certain provisions of this law, which are on the trail of my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club on 2 July 2010, when the Law on the financing of political activities of the electoral promotion was adopted, then, on behalf of the Club, I presented the position of the club in the first reading. I am saying this for reasons, which, even now, I am saying, that the financing of political parties, in most parts of the public budget, was the budget of the unit of the regional local self-government, and then nine years ago I had a review and an analysis of the financing of political parties in Europe, where, in European democratic states, it was shown how much and in what way the political parties in their accounts are making donations, and how much of the funding from state, public funds or local self-government units and foundations, and the analysis of the general conclusion was that less corruption is being managed, less irregularities in the financial business of the parties, and that there are fewer remarks on the work of political parties in those countries where political parties in large parts are based on public funds. As an example of a country which does not have such a relationship in the budgets of the parties between private and public, the UK is listed, where, to a large extent, political parties are relying on the donation of natural persons or legal persons, but the conclusion in that analysis was that for political life, political hygiene in a particular democratic state, it is better to have the party's resources largely dependent on revenue from the budget and thus is more transparent and can be monitored throughout the assets, as well as how the party works and how it can be measured by how and how the parties in their democratic profile meet what is in their statutes, in addition to their own statutes, and said, therefore, that this was the reason why and now I support the solution to establish, and at local levels, as it is at national level, and that because of parties taking participating local or regional self-government, the parties, that this party could function and fulfil all those obligations that it has political work in its own. For me, therefore, it is absolutely acceptable that these minimum amounts provided for by the law when it comes to units of local self-government, namely.../incomprehensible/... prescribing the number of residents as the measure necessary to ensure in the budgets of units of local self-government that certain amount for the financing of political parties. I think that this amount, although many of our local self-government units are not particularly strong in fiscal terms, I think that this amount is really very, very, very small and that it is no problem to finance any of our local self-government units because we have a unit of local self-government from 5 to, I don't know, up to 50 council members, if we talk about counties, therefore, when compared to data that are given and budget commitments, I don't think it really represents any problem for local self-government, and on the other hand, it allows political parties to function and regularly do business. On the other hand, I responded to the word to also support the ministry's position, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to determine how the referendum initiatives should be financed. In its opinion, the Venice Commission also stated that, in order to act and implement referendum initiatives in terms of funding, it would be good to make it as transparent as possible for countries to determine how and how to determine the method of financing the referendum initiatives themselves. It is clear that, as a representative of the HDZ, neither we in the HDZ nor in any way want to dispute, prevent, make it difficult for us to launch a referendum initiative, however, I believe that the law on the referendum that should come here in HS will show our position on the referendum initiatives, but I believe that because of the initiatives and citizens involved in these initiatives, they stand behind certain referendum issues that may be, from amendments to the constitution to those local referendums, it is good to know and to know how and in what way the initiatives behind a particular project and for certain referendum issues make funds for the implementation of the referendum itself. I believe that whoever is interested in this country is well-intentioned into the referendum procedure, thus putting more and more of its signatures on that initiative, that this process he opens, which promotes certain ideas contained in the referendum issue, in this way to be clear, to be transparent, to be clear, that the funds spent on this initiative are unequivocally implemented precisely with the intention to organise the referendum itself and that it can be assessed in a certain way by the source from where these funds come from. And finally, I will also look back at the alphabet of democracy, what a colleague of the coat of arms mentioned earlier. I did not understand until the end what he wanted to say with the proposal that the parties who were parliamentary at the time of the election's final results, at any level, at local, or regional, were in the state, so that because of the transition of a certain representative who was a member of the party who won the elections yesterday and won if he went to the elections and whose member he became a representative or council member, that his departure would leave the party without the funds that belonged to him on the basis of the fact that she had reached her term in the elections. I do not understand how this would have been done until the end because we had already discussed it on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, there was even an observation when, because of the transition of representatives from one club to another club, the political party from which, which came to the elections and whose list of representatives or councilors had now reached its term of office, the funds that belonged to the party on whose list it was, went to another political option, I do not see how and in what way it is possible to coordinate it, and I agree that in this case, where the representative is a member of the two parties at the same time as the Law on the political parties allows, that it is discriminatory, but I say, we will see, we will see this proposal from a colleague of the Grbina, including the SDP Club, and then I will be able to say my definitive position. In any case, I support the bill's proposal, it's good that the law, that the law will be discussed in two readings, so we'll be able to show all the suggestions, the remarks, any misunderstandings that are made this morning, during today's debate. Anyway, I said that I would support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126096	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, I will focus on the Law on the financing of the referendum. You know that in professional phobia, there's a phobia, so fear of a closed space called claustrophobia, fear of strangers called xenophobia, I think you've introduced a new term, that's a new phobia, which is called a phobia of your own people. You were talking about transparency, although we had one legislative proposal here a week ago, where I was saying that we would actually have two electoral cycles, where we wouldn't actually know who the real owners of the company were, you're the one who made the bill for the second month next year, we're going to have the euro parliamentary elections, presidential elections, maybe parliamentary elections, where there's going to be donors of the company that we won't actually know who the real owners are, and when we talk about transparency, we think we should pay attention to that fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126098	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev. My colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sladolev, I have made myself clear, I have said what I think about the referendum, and I am the co-signator of a number of initiatives to carry out the referendum, and I greatly respect the initiatives that move to collect signatures to initiate the referendum itself. However, and when I was, I was a signator of these initiatives, and when I'm not a signator of these initiatives, the people are not just 10, 50, 300 or 400 thousand in that initiative. The Croatian people, at least according to the list of voters, have about 3,740,000 voters somewhere, and it is necessary to take care of all, about the interest, public interest of every Croatian voter, every Croatian citizen, regardless of whether he is a member of a particular initiative and a co-signator of a particular initiative, or not, in this sense I was talking about the need for transparent funding of the referendum initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126100	I thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126101	Thank you very much, Reverend Bacic. Here we support the initiative to share the money according to the day of the election, so I ask that this law enter into force, these rules take effect with the adoption of the Law, so return to us from the Living Wall, the million-and-a-half kuna that the representative Runtic has taken to your coalition, and return to the GLAS representatives the four fees currently used by the CNS, this one, which you have a nice standing with them for your coalition, so here, if you are so moral, so fair, let with the adoption of this Law, immediately apply these rules, so that here, we determine the situation with 11.09.2018, and then you will prove your credibility. So, I think we should return what you took. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126102	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. My colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126103	You're either not listening to me, or you're deliberately trying to bend what I said. So, I said that it is necessary on the day of the election, on the day of the election results, to schedule financial resources, and today it is the case, today, so today, that certain MPs are leaving the political party, its parent party with which he entered the Parliament, the money remains. So, what are you talking about then, I don't get it. And as for fellow Runtic, if you have anything against his exit from the Living Wall, and crossing to the Most, raise a criminal report, as you said at the time that you would file a criminal complaint for leaving the Living Wall, to the Most. So, we advocate not to sign off on the party to which the representative is coming, the fact that he left one party, the other party, but that the money remains in the same party.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126104	Thank you. I would like to thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, esteemed colleague Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126105	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I cannot agree with you on the principle of introducing a minimum of funding from local budgets, financing political parties, but if you think it is good, there is no problem, but I see no reason why we have not introduced the above limits. Why didn't we simply introduce the upper limits by the number of voters, by size of cities, by size of the county, and the rest? Nor can they agree with another fact, if an independent representative, an independent parliamentary representative approaches the political party during the term, that the money belongs to the political party he is leaving for. And what if the reverse situation occurs, this criterion is not valid again, means if it moves from the political party to independent ranks or decides to be independent, regardless of what the preferential one can get 100,000 votes, that principle is not valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126106	I thank my colleague Pranic. My colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Pranic, a criterion has been established for local self-government units, where they must provide funding for political parties in their budgets, according to size, for certain units of local self-government, which is based on the number of inhabitants. I believe that this criterion, which has been taken, and how it takes care that providing funds for political parties would not compromise the obligations that a certain budget must fulfil when it comes to.../incomprehensible/... local self-government and I believe that this approach is very good, if some local self-government unit wants a larger budget, most of it.../incomprehensible/... let it, just do it. And as for the independent representative, well, he's the means given to an independent representative are meant for his work the moment he enters the political party, the political party provides him with assumptions for work. And it makes perfect sense that these money goes to the political page. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126108	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Next debate, dear colleague of Christmas Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so here we are today discussing the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. I'll start with the referendum because actually the most debate, the most criticism was in that part. As far as the referendum itself is concerned, we can all agree that a referendum law is urgently needed because there are many concerns here, however, this Law on the financing of the referendum, which will cover the financing of political activities, election promotion of parties is needed. To say that the referendum is an absolutely legitimate tool, that we at the HNS support it and so do I personally. However, I do not know the reason why it calls so much for the publication of the way the referendum is financed. Which is why someone would be afraid to say I gave the funds, let it be published because I think it's an idea that I support, and I'm willing to invest in the right to accept that idea or to allow a statement. We all swear it's all done voluntarily without any means whatsoever, without any necessary funding, and we know it's not. We know that it actually costs everything, from that booth where the signatures are done, so even in this referendum law, we have to really define the exact places and the way because no matter how much we want to show how all these ideas are noble for which we stand, the very way of collecting signatures is often and not so pleasant for those who pass by and drag them by the sleeve, go sign it, why won't you sign it, to the names of the ugly names of those who don't want to sign it, so it's not in this part, but certainly the Law on the referendum should also edit that part. And all donations need to be transparent, we have a mouthful of transparency, and when we need to concretely pass some law, then everyone would have little to do, but not to be so transparent, so we really need to be banned anonymous donations, both for political parties and for the referendums and for everything to be really accessible and visible. Furthermore, this law regulates the allocation of funds for the regular yearly financing of parties, and it is good to obtain funds and that parties have for that basic financing of funds from the State budget or units of local or regional self-government because donations themselves already raise certain doubts about who they are, why, although they are counterproductive, they are not mentioned anywhere because there is no counterproductive donation, so these are prescribed and the minimum funds that local self-government units need to provide for the financing of political parties in their area. Is it also necessary to secure the amount of the highest funds? It might not be bad, because although the population per unit of local self-government we know that the fiscal capacity of local self-government units is different, 10 times there is a difference between certain units of local self-government, so they are always not an objective display, so it might not be bad to think about it. In doing so, we also touched on independent representatives, which is the means allocated to the work of an independent representative, it is true that he has been elected as an independent representative, but that independent representative has been elected on a specific list where there were still independent representatives and if that independent representative moves on to a political party and provides funds to him or to go with him to that political party, whether it is just his decision, or if it is the decision of all those who were actually on that list, who worked and who participated in those elections, and perhaps they lacked a few votes that they did not pass, so whether or not to see a little of that said by counterpart Batinić, and we think that we should consider in that section a little more. And that third part relating to the level of election, the means of election promotion, how important for these first EU elections that are really important, and it is important to inform people because we see how low turnout is in these elections, how much skepticism among citizens, how much disinformation is in the EU and all that, but the increase in funds from one million and a half million kuna to four million kunas we still consider inappropriate in this time, and also the amount relating to the funds for the presidential elections. We think that's a little too much, too. As far as everything else is concerned, we think it's a good step, me personally, and we at the club, and we're going to support this law, but we should consider these things a little bit more, there's been a lot of debate on the subject, and I say as far as the referendum itself is concerned, I expect that he will come into the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible, and that we will define these things that are unclear from that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126110	Thank you, dear colleague of Christmas Macar. We have one replica, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126111	Dear fellow Minister Makar, you mentioned this very amount of funding for regular annual budget funding, so that the state budget, or parliamentary parties, determined 0.075 of the tax revenue achieved over the previous period, were also applied by some units of local self-government, so it was referred to not to be overrated or underestimated, so I think that this ceiling should exist, we can discuss these heights, but these are annual heights for certain cities or counties per representative, so this shouldn't be high on what it means, meaning 0.075 of the tax revenues achieved. So that would be a limit. [[Agreement: I thank my colleague Grodani Perić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126112	My colleague Macar's answer, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126113	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, so, fellow Peric, thank you for your support and consideration in the same direction. We really have this situation that could happen to make these differences drastic and there's really no need for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126114	I thank my esteemed colleague, Macar. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126115	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues here today we have been following almost all afternoon the debate on this law. Many constructive remarks and suggestions have been made, some of them adopted through the public debate we followed. We know why this supervision of the financial, financial business of political parties is needed, among other reasons is the detection and sanctioning, and thus the prevention of certain matters that do not comply with the law and what is important to say that if someone wants to bypass the law then he will find ways to bypass this law as well as any other. That is why it is necessary to ensure that financial reports are delivered and it is necessary to do so preferably through the information system for funding control, which I commend as one good step forward and I think that when something is in electronic form and when available on the screen, it is so much less likely to be misused. I also don't want too much about the referendum activities that are defined by this law, we know that the defined way and the choice of funding around it was some controversy, but I think it's good for opening a special account and also related to sources of donations. What I also think is good to determine the possible change of membership in the political party of representatives or members of the representative body in such a way that after the final results are declared, this does not affect the way the funds are allocated according to these final results of the elections. That it is necessary to regulate this law we also see from, of course, many others that are being touched, there have been issues concerning the selection of MPs in parliament, on women's quotas, etc., all of this is somehow interlinked. Recently, it also shows a case of unintended spending of political parties who tend to call another political party for ugly names, including corruption, thieving and so on, but we have seen from the newspaper signs that this case opens up a dubiosis in a financial business that has been discovered by an investigative journalist and, unfortunately, has experienced a certain kind of public persecution that we are publicly condemning, and we find it entirely inappropriate, that a person who consciously performs his work and his work is based on arguments and explicit data to experience such a kind of persecution. The findings of State audits show the state of financial operations in the parties, we know which parties received positive findings, which received conditional opinion, unconditionally etc., these findings are not the fruit of someone's imagination and these are facts and therefore this law can also be useful in those, in those facts where we see it necessary to make certain changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126116	I thank my colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126117	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Secretary, so here I want to say something about the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, a little surprised today by this amount of spilling bile at the beginning of the debate, and this number of loud cries with waving hands, probably some came in well under the influence of many events around them, and probably wanted to leave a certain impression that they were very good at handling all the facts of the law, so that they were the only ones in fact right. Because there's a fundamental definition between all the debates here in the assembly, when there's no order, why there's no order, and when we want to establish it or fix it, then we don't need it because order is good enough. So this marks not only this debate but all the debates so far and simply in such a divide between such relationships, it is not easy to discuss nor about this law. But when you see who's saying it, then it's another thing. When you are told about this by a party who calls itself anti-systemic or anarchist, is it normal to expect that they want order, of course they do not want and behave in each of their own procedures, debates and simply do not recognise that some others want to set rules that should apply equally to all, from this Assembly, to the Rules of Procedure itself, to the smallest details of future election promotions or campaigns on any basis, from local, regional, to the state level. But they immediately forget that they are what they represent themselves and say we are on the defender of democracy, all rights without any obligation, everyone. So nothing needs to be fulfilled, nothing, just rights. We can hold a referendum on everything, as we will, with 1%, 0% of the signatures, everything needs to be discussed, because politicians are unnecessary, basic messages, at least as I experience them. We heard some of the others, they were also loud enough to yell, and they first opened the transitional deadline, they took away the first player for a few days after election night. Well, not all these media stories these days, because it was all okay, obviously something wasn't right, someone was so worried that something was wrong, and so was the other party. However, the state has been strong enough all this time so far to establish rules, so everything out there has been made public, every report, any candidate, even from the local board to the state level. Every party, so many members, so many councils, every year so much money, so many donations, nothing can hide just like that. But there's also some state review to determine if it's right, and it's wrong for them to determine anything, if we're right, anarchy and democracy, all in one sentence. Of course, many people or citizens, listening to it, can come to certain conclusions, even believing. Let us remember ministers who had tariffs to meet under a tree, somewhere along the river or in the park, or they could press charges with tariffs, or they could organize a public competition or a calling on some kind of shows. These are the things that we've been through, just the ones that are most moralized today, they're the ones who are the only ones who are right, honest and so on, and I'm telling my councilmen one kuna, and for the work of the party, and for their work all year round, civil society associations, 750,000 of them. So those of us who organize a political system in the local environment, from mayors, mayors, municipal, city councils, to us kunas, to all others, to the group of birds 50000 because they must have an exhibition. Political parties, they don't need any activity during the year, nothing, nothing, you don't need to send a letter, it doesn't cost anything. What a congratulatory, or any kind of encounter, is out of the question. To them, I'm a good mayor. What kind of message does such a mayor send? I want no opposition, because the opposition with the kuna in my pocket, it's not an opposition to me, they can't have the same terms as I do, Mayor. I can always get myself a donation that that councilman can't, yet I'm doing something, and of course it's today a model of how to behave, sovereignistic, populist, and everyone per kuna. And of course the state says so, and yet maybe something's wrong. That's not right for me. A thousand kunas, a thousand kunas, five councilmen, five thousand, you can do something to me, but that mayor, he says the kuna is enough, then the other one comes forward, and he says we've been giving the kuna, of course, wiped them out in the elections, because it's not the result of your work that you gave to that councilman and the political party, it's yours, your thinking about how much those people are worth in that community. You don't have to throw yourself away, I don't think anybody's throwing themselves away. If there's a place you're in a rental town somewhere, you have to pay it with something. Who has so many members, perhaps besides the Croatian Democratic Community, that they can pay everything from membership fees? These parties that have several councilmen, they have two local self-governments, they would have abolished everyone else, because they are unequal, they would have put them all on the kuna, because they are unequal, these others don't have any mayor or mayor, and they would have all the same. Well, we can't discuss a very important issue like this, which I don't really know why these days, but it's just spinning in the media, the way the political work of parties is financed. And it's very simple to approach it all after the kuna, all of it nothing, it's just convenient to hear, but work costs something. Let's look at the audit results. It is those most attacked, the Croatian Democratic Community, for three years in a row, unspeakable, audit finding, unconditional opinion, that the system has been established. Look at their findings, the unit, the media notice, you mustn't notice, how dare you at all that we've got one, you can't. Because what? We can be in a few parties, it's acceptable behavior. It says in our statutes, the president determines everything, he can here, he can there, he says stop you there, you pull the resignation, you here, we're the most democracy, they say. They come here, they say they're the most democratic, everyone else is no good. And in this way lead the debate, forget that we had referendums behind which the judicial processes were also dragged, precisely because of the intransparency, or because of the lack of funding. We say keep it going. I don't think so. I think they still need to bring order into that segment. And what my colleague Grbin said, and all the other moments we've noticed, and deadlines, and days, and the number of signatures, and places, and so on. So imagine the leaders of local self-government when someone asks you for a referendum give us a public surface, you give him a public surface, there is a procedure. You give him that surface, and he's in front of the church, hop. Nothing to anyone. And only on Sundays. Or we don't collect signatures at all, we look at the number of signatures, there's nothing there, but all the signatures you want. So where did it come from? So there are situations that have been observed. This government, this ministry, has noticed and tried to give the first reading to the debate, all the rules, and the most important funding, because that's probably the most important reason. And that's why you don't deserve this law debate in a way, you want to ban a referendum, not one. You want to make it harder, if it's aggravation. What's the problem? Let's go with the suggestions, so what it says here is we better make sure there's no problem in showing needs and in a referendum. But just accusing you of it, you're against it for nothing. And that's why this story needs to continue until another reading, but some of them have to come to their senses, so it's not normal for one colleague of ours to tell another colleague to take 500 Euros in a week because a satisfied man works better. And then here every day he tells me, you're thieves, you're criminals, etc., and he's gone today, I wish he was here to ask him. So it's not easy to work in such relationships, but it's important to find a point, and the main thing is to regulate funding and political activities and election promotions, but also the referendum itself, it's all the political life of this country from local to state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126118	I thank my colleague, Boric, we have several replicas, dear colleague Angelko Strick, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126119	Thank you, Vice-President of the Assembly, fellow Boric, you have well noticed all those who strive to be better, fairer, more orderly society, call everyone and everyone around them, in the end it turns out that they are not holding anyone and nothing and that the regulations literally do not apply to them. We've been listening for two years, and it's such a perception to the public that colleague Ivan Pernar is a member of the Living Wall. For two years he has performed in the Croatian Parliament as a member of the Living Wall and it is perception towards out, that he is their member. However, when it comes to budgetary kunas, then it is a member of the alphabet of democracy, a foreigner who probably has a member who is both the president and the assembly and the supervisory board and all the honor and all, but it is still budgetary kunas which they need [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The guys share. [[Intruder: Dear fellow Striker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126120	Reply from fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126121	Thank you very much, colleague Striker. I didn't mention any names or parties, I described them, and I don't care if my colleague wants to be at 1, 3 or 10 parties as he thinks he should, because that's not the primary question. The primary issue is financing exactly the mandate someone got. If the mandate was obtained with one party, then, due to various after-election activities, it ended up in another party, no, and now it comes to the fact that this should be given for humanitarian purposes, it has been observed that there is something wrong in the system. It means you need to change. But anyone who's noticed that they don't know, understand, or that they're incompetent doesn't stand. Especially according to media representatives who have noticed that they have received a review unit, and these are the problems we have to talk about, but not in force and at the scream, at the scream, but at the arguments. This law offers something in that sense, is it best that we have another reading? Well, those who know everything would like to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126122	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Boris, next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126123	Dear fellow, you mentioned transparency, we know by law so far that the announcements of donations and reports each published on its web pages, but according to the new proposal of the law, the information system that will be in the State Election Commission will actually combine all information where all the timely, all analyses and analysts can be conducted in time, and also the availability and timely publication of data will be much more high-quality. Therefore, this bill and how this amendment contributes significantly to the quality of the reports themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126124	Thank you, colleague Boric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126125	Thank you very much, colleague Peric, again I say that the system has noticed shortcomings and we today have enough transparency to say how much something has been spent in something and in some activities, but now it is going even better. It means that everything is channeled towards the body that should be guided. Because what happens these days? We also have a law famous about gender equality, these days the DORH against everyone who didn't have on the lists a ratio of 60 40 raises meaning misdemeanor let's say applications, ask for data to determine exactly which list it wasn't or which list it had, so let's see how much it cost. It's 20,000, I mean punishment. Some parties will pay large amounts because they have come easily without it. And that's what the system noticed. If we're against it, here, let's open the debate and see that everyone's gonna be there to pay the penalty why, which someone isn't. He did what he had to do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126126	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126127	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, so little of this debate has gone too far with these referendums. In fact, the law isn't just about referendums. I'd just like to look back on the fact that you don't need to be afraid of your people's opinions. In no country there are such rigorous conditions for referendums as in Croatia, for example in Switzerland there are enough 50,000 signatures that have been collected for months, in Hungary 200 thousand that have been collected for 4 months, and Hungary has almost twice as much as we do, and now, with this law, it further wishes to intimidate all those who would possibly want to participate in the referendum, is essentially the intention to abolish these referendums as said by Mr Shuker 2015, and, among other things, Mr Kušević showed by introducing the so-called Lex Sheriff, where de facto abolished any referendum at the local level, raising the threshold of the collected signatures at an incredible 20%, which really means that neither with the best will, nor with the greatest engagement, such a referendum will ever be held. However, this Law also deals with party financing, and this is essentially where even worse solutions are proposed than in this referendum law. I asked the secretary of state if now is the time to raise funds to finance political parties, she did not answer me. I don't see the point of sitting there at all, she could watch this debate on TV, because according to this bill, political parties are given practically one billion kuna a year. You heard me well. Money is given, two budgets, say the Ministry of Tourism, or I don't know, the Ministry of Culture, huge money is given in a state that doesn't have for health, which has no pension, which barely pays for these all-called guarantees, like the Uljanics, where young people move out, where people can't survive their wages, not even a week, in a country where there's a completely useless state apparatus headed by a political elite, instead of the funds shrinking, the funds are still increasing, increasing. That's just something amazing. It's no, not just absurd, it's just embarrassing, that politicians are still given everything they have on this. So watch what this Law provides for, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The political party must be given a minimum of 8000 kuna for every councilman in the city of Zagreb, in the county of 5000 kuna, in the municipality of 3000 to 3500 kuna, for European elections, the campaign cost per list from 1.500,000 to 4,000.000 kuna increases by almost 200%. There are only 12 MPs on the list for the European Parliament, 12 MPs, that is one MP, over 300,000 kuna is given, per candidate, not per MP, per candidate, because the lists will be ten, twenty, thirty, which I know how many, give 300,000 kuna for a two-week campaign. So let me know what that candidate is up to in two weeks, on which he spends 300,000 kuna. For what? What are commercials, which are jumbo posters, so one jumbo poster is I don't know, a thousand kunas, so one single candidate, not a party, will set up 300 jumbo posters in Croatia with that money. What is the role of this Euro Parliament, what have Europarliamentaries done in Brussels in the last five years? Here, I'm taking dinner, who's going to name my Europarliamentaries right now but without looking at my cell phone? What are they doing in the Euro Parliament? 1.4% is represented in the European Parliament, they are completely irrelevant, we have no use for them, and now we are increasing them by 200% of the money that will be given to them. Yes, Croatian citizens, that's what the HDZ and its majority do to you. They not only give the parties money, but then give it to those councillors so much compensation, there are 9,000 councilors in Croatia. Look, first the parties get, first they get the parties' money, then the councilmen get the money, by the session they get between 3,000 and 7,000 kuna for one single session, the council members, then the captain's salaries, then the principal's salaries, then the deputy chief's salaries, and all those people are employed, they're employed as a rule. Come on, those sitting in the Parliament, these are at least professionals, these, you in municipal councils, county councils, working, coming to the session, I don't know two hours a month if the sessions are general and get a fee from 1,000 to even, I don't know, thousands of kuna. Croatia has 9,000 councilmen, New York has 50, 50 council members, and 2x is bigger than Croatia. If we were to go round up, the ones sitting on local committees, you'd realize there are over 20,000 politicians in Croatia, who are financed from the budget, at the expense of the people, bleeding. That's them. Nothing's good. Most of them, and you still want those funds to increase. Well, shame on you could be that you've passed that law in general. You should have sent Mrs. Rimac and your employers, done a territorial reconstruction, 80% of municipalities, counties, cities abolished, all these councilmen sent to do honest work some, not bread without a distraction, to parade, this, and spend budget money, to hire relatives, party friends and so on. The funds for the parties cut, radically. You give the political parties in Parliament 70 million kuna a year, in one term of 280 million kuna, and you still want donations to be donated. Where will my people be to you? Do you really think that you are God's days? Do you really think you're worth that much? Croatian people, look at them, they're increasing their fee by 200% as we've heard a little, and they're leading you to destruction. It is the message of this Law and it is the message of this Parliament in which the message is, therefore, short and clear, in Croatia the most rewarding interest to be a politician. A politician is a god, he earns, he supplies his whole family, he can hire all his friends, he can take care of, and so on, and you people work for three, four thousand kuna, have a pension of 1200, 1300 kuna that your Minister Pavić gives you, be worthy with your hand on your chest, and with your chess shirt under the terror of false patriots who are themselves, primarily themselves, and always and only themselves taken care of, on your torture, on your work, on your ideals, on your dreams and on your honesty. It's you, yes, gentlemen. Yes, as the gentleman says... And increase us even more, so you know how much we do says Mr. Boric, so we're killing ourselves from work, so we've done you good, look around you, here's everything, I don't know, birds sing, butterflies fly, we're in paradise, we're wonderful, thanks to the work of politicians, MPs, size. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mirrors, mirrors, who's the most beautiful person in the world? Well, you know who. Representatives at the Croatian Parliament. It is, therefore, simply the horror that we see every day, and this Law has only revealed itself to its full extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126128	Thank you, dear fellow Bunjac. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126129	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you have devoted most of the debate to the referendums, among other things the last referendum-related initiative, were the People's Initiatives to decide. They called in order, and I quote people's legality, people's will, and most of them participated in the elections, and the people said what they thought, none of them passed the electoral threshold. Now they're pushing for an amendment to the election law, and now I'm going to mathematically prove that it's one of the most common delusions. So, they argue that the number of MPs is down from 151 to 100, now it takes 13,000 votes to pass the electoral threshold, and if the number of MPs is down, it takes 20,000. And how do they plan to enter the Parliament if they can't win 13,000 votes, and they're up for 20,000? And as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126130	Thank you, dear fellow Uncle. Your time is up, thank you. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126131	Thank you very much, Uncle. So from what you just said, I realized that you don't like the referendum question, that you don't like them, that you don't like those people who organized the referendum, but that's how I don't like many referendum questions either. For example, I did not like the referendum question Do you want to join the European Union? I went to this referendum that was unfair, which is why you changed the Constitution in cooperation with your SDP fraternities, in this referendum is the minority of the Croatian people, the great minority has voted to join the European Union, and I now have to live by it. And I live. And why is that? Oh, because I'm a legalist. And as for you, accept simply that the people have their will, and sometimes that does not conform to your expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126132	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126133	Thank you very much. I don't know about your math since there are rules, and that billion looks big, really. When you count all these councilors, commissioners, mayors, and so on, MPs, there are billions of them, and there are financial reports that have to be carried out every year, so there's a fine record of how many of the parties of all incomes, membership fees, donations, council members, these, those and so on, so much annually, and there's a sum of everything and get somewhere over 90 million out of those 90, 151 parliamentary representatives sharing somewhere around 52-53 million a year. So all that local, down regional and so on, is the rest of about 40 million, that's a lot less than a billion. And it's not good for you to misinformation, for us politicians to be public in that way. Maybe your feeling is so much, maybe you're confused, a billion-and-two-hundred association, but that's no problem, that can do it, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126134	I thank my colleague, Boric. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126135	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric. So you jumped into your own mouth. You're saying the parties get 70 million kunas in Parliament, so x4, only in Parliament gets 280 million kunas. And if we added the wages, the fees, and everything else that was spent, the funds would be far higher. So, I've told the parties to be given, and besides being given to the parties, they're paid to the council, they're paid, they're paid, they're paid, they're given as employees, and so on, for 9,000 councillors in the Republic of Croatia. We have 9,000 councilmen. So come on, open up some analysis, you have in Free Dalmatia and so on, so look how much it's spent. Abnormal money is being spent, and the results are nothing, that's what concerns the Croatian people, that you have results, I think people would agree that you have more pay than you are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126136	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126137	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State. In your debate, you touched several facts, false facts, the first is how municipal council members in Croatia, who as you say have 9,000, have 3500 kuna fees per month. I don't know any Croatia in my 25 years... which paid 3500 kuna compensation to any municipal councilman in Croatia, that's one thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And another thing I ask you in your discussion, you can say anything, but my patriotism is not your right to touch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126138	I'd like to thank my colleague Lonchar. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126139	Thank you very much, Mr. Lonchart. So, I said that for each councilman, it gets 3500, up to 3500 kuna a year, it means every councilman. So let's say that HDZ has in your community, I don't know, 7.8 councilmen times 3500 kuna, but that's still being compensated, and it's still getting paid, so it's getting, it's getting very big funding. And as far as your patriotism from HDZ is concerned, I simply have the right to comment on it, so this is, under the Constitution, the right to freedom of speech, we have the right to freedom of expression, and I have the right to question it. Because as far as I can tell, your client is very badly concerned about the people. And that's what, that's what's not good, and that's what we have such a disaster in Croatia, a demographic disaster, above all, like we didn't have in the days of the Turks Osmanli. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126140	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Bunjac. The next replica is a respected colleague of Steve Culey's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126141	Dear Vice President. A colleague of Bunjac, will you and your party, your colleagues, Pernar and the president, give up all the fees you receive here as these disgusting politicians who exploit Croatian people and live as white sheaths, as a debtor on the crust. Are you going to give you up, and I see my colleague Pernar pulling you by your coat and saying don't say that, don't say that, what am I going to do? What could I do in this country and make a decent living? From your president who had his first performance in Sava on the stairs, here's colleague Pernar, when we gave him his statement back five times at the beginning, when Klen was telling him this couldn't go over again, repeat, once again. I was the one who wanted to take your camera out there, if I knew what mistake I was making and where you first made your defense video, you wouldn't have recorded it there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126142	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Culey. I would ask you to stick to the subject and agenda points. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126143	Thank you very much, Mr. Culey. I don't quite understand what the writer was going to say, but in our program, these things I wrote are written down, so I was talking about software stuff, and we're going to, when there's another reading, all of our programming stuff is going to suggest in the amendments, and you should also stick to your program, say, you said that you're going to be banned from the only home, you're going to change the law, you're going to cut the VAT to 23%, so here's a chance for you to keep those promises by the end of your term, to keep those promises. As far as I can see, there's nothing going on, but that's why your salaries and fees are increasing, so this is why political parties have even more money than it's going on, here we've even seen up to 200 percent of this, so I don't know, here you might know what you'd spend 300,000 kuna on if you were a candidate in the euro parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126144	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126145	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I have noticed that some HDZ members are contentious that my mandate at the beginning of the Parliament was registered at the alphabet of democracy, and that this party received money and that I was its member, and that the money that the party received was spent on my political work. It's a question to some of you. Since Mr. Pernar could have paid the money that the state paid on the terms of his mandate, spent in the context of being a member of that party, and that's suspicious to you, it's unclear to you, it's mysterious, mystical to you, I would dare say even controversially. However, one thing is not disputed for you, I will now read the report from the HDZ trial. Pavosevic pleaded guilty, so her statements from the investigation confirm that black fund money was used by a number of party officials, as well as employees and party associates. According to parts of the investigation, Pavosevic confirmed the charges of former party treasurer Mladen Barisic, confirmed that part of the money was not recorded accountingly, and that she hid the documentation because she was afraid of losing her job. This is about me having a problem in Croatia, not just financing parties by the budget and state, but black funding under the table. It is a problem in Croatia, where HDZ is in power. Keep an eye on what's going on. Pavosevic said that 90,000 kunas were paid to Damir Hoyki, Ivana Kindl and Jacques Houdek received 10,500 kuna, Vanna 30,000, Tonchi Vrdoljak was paid, says a million kuna, and I was shocked when I read it, says Pavosevic. Davor Dretar received 100,000 kunas, 456,000 Anton Ivanovic, 60,000 kunas were paid to Miroslav School, 200,000 Lana Jurčević, and 3,000 Euros were taken by Drazen Žanko. She added, that Jadranka Kosor's campaign was also paid, with a million kunas across the Masol company's payout without a date. Pavosevic confirmed she taught Darka Milinovic 10,000 kuna a month from Barisic's money, and Bianci Matkovic taught money. That's not what I'm saying, I don't know if it's true, it's the lady who ran your bookkeeping. And it's in court, not what she said- said in four eyes. For a time, she received 2,000 kuna, and later the amount increased to 8,000 kuna per month. She supported her claims to USKOK with copies of payments and a notebook with her own accounting records she had buried in the garden of the family house prior to her arrest. Barisic claims in the video that Sanader did not give him peace even while he was sick and had cancer, must collect money and call people. Mladen Barisic concludes in the video that he was Sanader's postman, etc., etc. In the video, Barisic said that after Sanader's departure in black funds, there were 300,000 euros and 2 million kuna left. After the government's surrender, Barisic said Sanader invited him to a meeting with Jadranka Kosor. Barisic says Kosor did not comment when she heard how much money was left in the safe. Mladen Barisic told USKOK's investigators that Sanader had told Jadranka Kosor that the elections could not be obtained from regular incomes and that they could use the money for the presidential campaign. As only a third of the money was legal, Barisic said Kosor acted scared but didn't say anything. Sanader told Kosor that elections are won with two-thirds of the money under the table. What he said was that he also personally visited the leaders of public companies, asked them to do business with FIMI MEDIA or give money to Sanader and the party fund. Barisic detailed that the HDZ state money was bought by the media through the accused former party and government spokesman. He said Sanader decided to invest in the media in order to have room to promote before the elections. To this end, the debts of Osijek's television station were settled and Barisic said he had raised 415 thousand euros that he gave to Macek for the purchase of the Zadar List. He goes on to say, watch this, co-ownership with Zagreb Mayor Milan Bandic was founded and the production of Sljema, which controlled Z1 television, Barisic said. Barisic argues, says he gained the impression that Kosor and Branko Bacic, who is one man sitting here in the Parliament, did not know what to do with the money and had long refused to accept it. After a while, I was told to hand over the money to the party and I did so, Barisic said. The ditch, by the way, is also your HDZ colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126146	Dear colleague Pernar, I've been allowing you five minutes to talk about topics that have nothing to do with the current agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126147	I'm talking about the financing of political parties, I'm talking about the black financing of parties that I find problematic and I don't want to believe that you will forbid me to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126148	Mr. Pernar, I'm asking nicely about agenda points and don't talk about topics that have nothing to do with this agenda item. I'm warning you, go ahead, time's up, now you're going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126149	We're talking about funding political parties here. The fact is, he's attacking me for doing something illegal. And that by people, by people who, if those statements I read from the media, witness statements if they're true, these people not only took money from the state budget but also took money from state-owned companies, they pulled it out. And just to finish, Jarnjak was initially a suspect in the FIMI MEDIA case but after the trial he became a witness as well as at the first trial Jarnjak said he knew about the existence of the black fund, the cash payment of fees but also that in customs the accused HDZ treasurer Mladen Barisic was numbering the Penez. I'm not going to read the verdict any further, but the verdict said they were guilty of Judge Ivana Calic, although ineligible. What's important is that this is about enormous amounts of money, you have a DORH report literally talking about tens of millions of kunas. And why am I saying all this? Because the state review, for example, suspects, say we suspect, they find it odd that 3,000 kunas were spent on fuel for 2017, it is controversial for the state audit. And these tens of millions of kunas for which there are witness statements, for which there is a payoff, that DORH, that state audit is not disputed. The state audit has never said, dear ladies and gentlemen, we suspect that parallel accounting was conducted in HDZ, we suspect that part of the money went past the account, or that the actual accounting situation does not correspond to the one in the financial reports. And the state audit did not therefore ask HDZ to suspend funding from the budget and it is about tens of millions of kunas. I ask how, how is that possible? What's the role of the state audit then? Is the role of state audit perhaps the liquidation of political impasses? Is the role of state review with the help of the media to blacken and portray as criminals people who are actually fighting crime? That's the question I'm asking. I am being attacked, I repeat once again on which charge, that I have used through the party of the Alphabet of Democracy for my political work the money that has come from my mandate. You notice what's illogical, the charge is insane. The money won the party at the end of my term and I used it for my political work as a member of the party. It's questionable to you, it's questionable to you. And you don't have a problem, you won't talk about how HDZ was funded and you're all repeating now you'll all say, we don't know anything, we don't remember anything. Oh, yeah? You don't remember anything. And what did we all do? We're fools, we're suckers, we're all senile, we have a syncope like Luka Blueish, what. So who do you work here so I don't tell the fools? You mock the Croatian public, you say the dispute is, 10, says the state review is controversial, watch this, throughout the year for the 10 thousand kuna team. That's controversial. So many of you ate in one evening. It's a questionable state audit and these tens of millions of kunas that actually stole from state-owned companies according to the testimony of your members and witnesses in court, that the DORH did not tell us it was disputed by those tens of millions of kunas, no doubt 10,000 kunas in the alphabet of democracy. It turns out that the alphabet of democracy is the biggest criminal in this country,... Money, it was a title of its own time even as Pernar burned your millions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What millions did I burn? What's coming from my perspective is that you decided to use the media to deal with me in two ways. Also, yes, I forgot that word, the Borg group, a billion and a half kuna, says Todorovic has been paid for advisers. Is it possible that it's paid that much? If it is, is it controversial to anyone? Of course not, of course not, the disputed is Ivan Pernar, he's the prime suspect, he's the one being investigated by the DORH, and Ivo Sanader is innocent. HDZ is not guilty and HDZ will never have to return [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Tens of millions of kuna, that's the conclusion. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126150	Dear colleague Pernar, I would ask you nicely to lower your tone because you're hearing very well, we have a voice in HS, so there's no need to raise your tone. We have one replica, dear colleague Stevo Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126151	I don't know if you were in court and now the judge says to you, you stole 100 kunas, and you say, and I know that Perica stole 300 kn and that Jovica stole 1,000 kn, so it doesn't matter how much anyone stole, it matters who did, what you did. So, you were in HDZ, you said you wanted to get rich in a hurry, then you failed, you didn't get a chance, and then you kidnapped into democracy, alphabet, then from the alphabet to the Living Wall. What's next? You understand, it doesn't matter how much, you stole a friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126152	Comrade Culey, I'd like to ask you nicely, don't disrespect your colleagues. We have a reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126153	Mr. Culey, I can tell you that I didn't steal one kuna. You'll tell me anyway, Mr. Pernar you stole, now you've said. Well, I can only tell you that you may be ashamed to say such a thing on the basis of nothing. So, you said you stole the money, and on what? Why? Because you use a lie as a weapon, a tool and a shield to defend your crime. And I'll tell you why you're using that. Because you're trying to remove focus from all possible charges and charges in a way that incriminates people who aren't guilty of setting them up, that's your policy because you know that the Living Wall is the only real opposition to your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126154	I thank my colleague Pernar. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126155	Art. In 238, you insulted me by leading me to protect thieves, and a little hurt that I called you a thief or that you stole. I was saying it doesn't matter how much it's stolen, how alienated it's been, how dark it's been, and especially that I've been protecting anyone who's in his time of any behavior of any kind of duty, alienated, blacked out, covered up. or something else. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126156	Thank you, colleague Culey. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed. We're moving on with... Do you have the same breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126157	No, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to request a 10-minute recess, so that the SDP club can consult a little after this debate by counterpart Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126158	Okay, is there anyone else? I'm setting a break to 18.35 hours. SESSION Interrupted at 18.25 hours [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.36 HOURS]] Dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126160	I thank Mr. Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues, she has one "Your face sounds familiar", for this law I can kind of paraphrasise "your law sounds familiar". So, basically this law is quite a bit, and this is especially what counterpart Hasanbegovic noticed in some solutions is quite consistent with the law which was addressed in the procedure of 2015, and I have to commend that part which, therefore, was on the trail and our reflections because I think it corrects the law, although it seems to me that this particular piece of work is the most objective part, but I just disagree with them. Therefore, in Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, and Article 6 states that the establishment of political parties is free, that the internal structure of political parties must be in line with the fundamental constitutional democratic principles, that parties must publicly account for the origin of their assets and assets and that the law regulates the position and financing of political parties. So, along with many of the fundamental values of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution, one of them is a democratic multiparty system, and a key part of that and a fundamental part, this democratic multiparty system is political parties. Unlike many who act in size and become unquestioned and are placed unquestionable, political parties every 4 years or more often test their work in elections. What they get from any budget is not based on a discretionary decision, but they get from citizens' votes. The provision further correcting that budget funds are allocated on the basis of results or on the day of the final, the declaration of the final results of the elections is being corrected by the current, present, current provision, although I think that when 2011 was put into law that even then it was thought that it was a moment that kind of mirrored the results of the elections, but this is now much more precise. So, I don't have any possibility of bypassing the fact that it might be good for the secretary of state in law to predict that when handing over a coalition list is precisely defined which candidate is which parties because these lists of parties are known how much they got, and coalition lists should be aware of how many parties within the coalition have received because then it would be another possibility to say, but now we have gone to elections, but at the moment the final results are announced I am no longer a living wall but an alphabet of democracy even though, even though because of my pro-Prosper views, Pernar might have been more of an alphabet than an alphabet of democracy, but well, that's one other thing now. The law also regulates the position of financing political parties, not individuals dealing with politics. So I believe that independent representatives and independent council members should not be financed at all from the State budget. This I believe should be restored to the state that was in 2004 and this was in one proposal or one version of the proposal. But as I know that the largest number of independent MPs was actually elected to the 12 electoral unit because in the history of Croatian multiparty from 2000 to 2016 when such election law was in force only Don Ivan Grubisic and Jaksa Bolova were elected in the ordinary election units as independent representatives and Mr Glasovic in the 2016 elections. All other independent representatives were elected as representatives of independent minorities and the provision that independent representatives receive money entered in 2004 in order to ensure that the majority of those representatives of national minorities and then should not be silenced but to remind the genealogy. So, I believe, this is my personal position that as a minister I have represented but I have never been able to translate it into a legal provision, that only political parties should have funding from the budget, not independent MPs, independent councilors or council members elected on the candidate list of voters. I also tend to make it possible for such council members to establish or enter a political party that they should be equal with all other political parties and, exceptionally, from the moment they enter the party, they should be allowed to continue financing. That's something I think you should do. I support, absolutely support the provision to prescribe what is necessary, what is the minimum amount from the budget of a particular political party in the local self-government unit, and I must admit that I was angry with my colleagues from the SDP in Vrgorec for voting for the budget proposed by Mr Pranic di was that provision. So, no matter what I think of him as mayor, I think he's got a bit of a wrinkle here, as far as he's concerned about the 1st kuna for the political parties. So that reminds me of the fact that there is no mediator between the king and the people on the 6-ianuary dictatorship of King Alexander. Councilors were elected by citizens and needed at least one reasonable measure of the political party for which citizens voted to receive funding from the budget. So if they don't want that money, then let them give them up. Therefore, your list has received 6 or 5 councilors and your party would receive these 5,000 kunas, and then you could say it back to the budget, we don't want it and there's no problem. Either that's why 5,000 kuna donate to a charity or whoever you want, fund five students or three students, etc., and other political parties that, so I'm not simply supporting that, to disable the self-will of the unit leaders of local self-government that they say we're more important than individuals of a multi-party parliamentary system and as far as the parties are concerned, we don't care about them. And that position also, therefore, is the provision of a minimum amount which would be prescribed as having the right of councilmen, the parties per councilman came as a consequence of the will of individual leaders of the unit of local self-government which are a), this now does not apply to you, Mr Pranic, who, in the alleged signs, "satisfaction" in one way and in the opposition did not want to give them what is minimal, which belongs to them minimally. So I support that part. I believe that infringement provisions need to be balanced a little, or normalized after all. So it's not normal for dragon penalties to be given to independent councilors who haven't even received kunas from the budget because they haven't published on the website when the state has no damage, so it's an act of exaggeration or an act of banishment. It is also not normal for local self-government officers or leaders to be punished, and there is a case, I heard because they did not pay the money to a councilman who did not deliver a jury account. So there's no harm done to either the local self-government unit or the state. That case on the Dragon Penalty for not submitting the report 3 days in time, within 3 days later, the Constitutional Court collapsed. And I simply think that this law in this section that follows the provisions of 2015 should be supported and in this part of what the colleague Grbin has set out on behalf of the club of representatives should be significantly, so they should be considered with care and give some logical explanations or simply listen to what he has suggested. So if the amendment to the article, if Article 57 would result in it being legal during the campaign, then that passing time 7 days before the election would report that you have 0 kuna costs because you have not yet paid anything for that provision should certainly be changed even if the Ministry of Finance persists on it until. So it's not, it doesn't make sense then, there's no need to report then. And then we went back a few years, a few years back. To conclude, despite all that may be objected to by political parties, those unlike many others in this country still have a measurable result, which is that every 4 years or earlier they go to elections and are assessed accordingly by the citizens. Even those who are called anti-systemic parties use all the benefits that the system offers to political parties and simply sometimes find it difficult to oppose this type of demagogy but therefore should not stop opposing it. We had a 45-year system where there was only one party so it was a problem and now we have a system where we have more parties and democratic elections, and now that's the problem. But a better system than a multi-party parliamentary democracy still hasn't invented the world. And if it's anti-systemic that wants to tear down that system, then I declare myself antianti-anti-systemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126161	I thank my colleague, Bauk. We have replicas. Dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126162	Thank you, Vice President. As for the political parties, it seems to me that the decision was supported by the Independent Youth List, your SDP, HNS, and it seems to me that even one part of the HDZ was acceptable to them because we could not even pay off that minimum given the burden on the city's register when we took power in Vrgorec in 2015 when we opened up a majority in the city council. So much for that. And how unacceptable it is for you as regards funding for 1 kuna to me personally, it is not unacceptable to present such a decision and it is the representative body that it makes. It is unacceptable for me to say that all of us here in the Parliament share 56 million kunas from the state budget and the kunas do not get any political options that may have a higher score than the individual current political party in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126163	I thank my colleague Pranic. Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126164	One who had a rating in the next election will confirm that rating will either win or fail to confirm. As far as this is concerned, you are formally right, the mayor proposes a budget, the city council accepts it, but if the mayor is the president of a party holding most of the city's council then he is not only mayor, so he has absolute authority in that unit of self-government and very rarely will happen that the council members of your party, so the independent youth lists, because you in Vrgorec are working in one party and in the Assembly on the other side, which is also interesting but good, that while you are going through there are no problems. So I still think you're a good mayor, and I'm glad you made it to most of the things you did there. But it also gives me the right to disagree with something you do. So I'm just saying that I'm sorry that the SDP council has supported it. Maybe it was really necessary at that point, but here's the next year I hope it'll be in this part of how the law prescribes everything okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126165	I thank my colleague Bauku for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126166	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bauk, I agree completely and fully with your attention to this situation that we have because I was talking about it because I think it's a question of the meaning of any body that shouldn't actually have any means to its work. So it's not a question of whether or not you need to get those funds as someone who's been selected on a list, but it's a question of what their tools are that they can use some opportunities so that tomorrow they can mate to the mayor in some of his unaccounted for activities, etc., etc. With kuna I see absolutely no motivation, probably no opposition to coming there to these sessions, not contributing to myself, not contributing... doesn't help anyone around. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it should be money that's motive for something but seeing how much money we spend on civil society associations and everything we have to cover to have a social life turns out that the political system that needs to be done isn't really worth anything. That's the kind of message. And the executive body as chief, the mayor they have their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126167	Thank you. My colleague Bauk's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126168	Yes, so, when the Association In the name of the family attacks the Government, I suddenly find it difficult to admit it, but as hard as it was for me, I don't have any problems right now, even when Mr. Hasanbegovic attacked the government because she partly prescribed the provisions that we proposed in 2015. Although in many, therefore, things do not agree, the fact that citizens simply choose the ones they choose should not be ignored. What sometimes, indeed, challenges a certain kind, come on, I won't say anger, but such a mockery, is when one represents, in the name of the people, and they called the People's Initiative to decide and then you come to the show, here in particular, so you or me, which four times the people have chosen in the Parliament, and then the people represent someone who went to those same choices and got nine votes of preferential.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126169	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126170	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, State Secretary, firstly, specifically in Art. 8, so the proposed law that reads, here's just to get my cell phone turned around, it won't turn around, I'm going to have to do this, so the funds from Art. 5. this Act shall be allocated in a way that determines the same amount of resources for each representative in HS or for each member of the presidential body of the self-government unit, so that the individual political party who was the proposing of the list belongs to the funds. Great, and I think that's okay. Just here one thing I think is technically not okay with this secretary of state and it would be good if you put this in another reading, here, listen to me carefully. So, to a particular political party, the electoral law still allows us to coalitions, so that should be stated in this article, that it can be a coalition, but also more parties. In other words, here are the hypotheticals, tomorrow HDZ and SDP co-ordinate, come together to the elections, Bauk will take Bernardic or Plenkovic in front of the HDZ. So, in the case of, well, you can explain to me later in the closing statement if I'm wrong, but I think we should split up here because the coalition is still standing by the current election law, so I should explain. But, I must say, I must admit that I was impressed by the speech of my colleagues, Bauka, and in fact the honesty of how the government of the Republic of Croatia, the current government of the Republic of Croatia, seems to be nice to him at the moment when, in the name of the family, the government, on the other hand, it is also nice to hear fellow Boric on the other hand agreeing with his colleague, Bauk, to me this brotherhood and unity, call the left hand, call the right hand, actually fantastic, so go ahead. And here I would point out, however, that this law that has been passed is almost identical to what the SDP has proposed, so I expect that my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP will support the HDZ Law, and especially because they were like-minded about the referendum when they were referendum initiatives and colleagues of Bauk and the truth, about Istanbul and the People, because they were raised votes and, according to us, there were enough votes. Both HDZ and SDP stood together, so, and challenged, were first opposed to the Initiative, later disputed the election result. As you fellow Bauk tried to do with a referendum on behalf of the family, where I was even the county coordinator, where I worked hard for weeks to realize that the community of men and women was married and nothing but that. So, what's the problem? The problem is that in this law, in fact, more and more referendum initiatives are being equated according to, so, according to these criteria, politics. Politics, as you pointed out well, and everyone else, gets money from the state, it's really millions of kunas, if I'm not mistaken 150 million kunas were mentioned here, while the referendum initiatives get zero kunas or they don't get money. Now, looking through the same law in fact at all, the referendum initiatives and political parties, in my opinion, is not acceptable. I would like this to be resolved through some other law, or that the referendum initiatives separate their funding and completely. Now, what the promoter obviously cannot understand, which is that his initiatives have collected this number of signatures with extremely little resources. If HDZ or SDP or any other party were to start collecting signatures, they would need hundreds of thousands of kunas, millions of kunas, so they should call volunteers to be paid, e, and here they were real volunteers. So, indeed, thousands and thousands of people who took vacations, who took their time off, gave time, so that they could volunteer and do the job. The only expense was actually to be ignored, it was the cost of printing books, some advertising material that was negligible, so in the whole process, it was the most expensive thing you know, and these are people, and people here are free of charge. So, as much as you try to reduce the possibilities of referendum initiatives through this law, you're not going to succeed because people are the value that you can't actually reduce. Now, here you have one situation now that, here it is, politics, you said that political parties must be financed, I agree, because then if they actually didn't finance themselves then what your parties are just doing, because they have hundreds and hundreds of units of local self-government, you know how it goes, the relative will do the job, later they'll pay for the campaign and so it goes. Unfortunately, the biggest parties that have the most units of local self-government actually in this way, illegally to understand, are illegally funding their campaigns, and you all know that and you know 1001 examples when an entrepreneur in a local self-government unit helped the party from which he gets the job and that's a big problem and that's what needs to be talked about. I'd like it to be a little tighter in this sense, to see who gets money from local self-government, which the company that works with them and to see, especially at the time of the campaign that the media has funded, which is through portals, televisions, radio stations, the money has come up. And it's not about the little money, it's about millions of kunas and everybody knows it. So it's millions of kunas. So, the aim of this Law, among others, is to break down the referendums, I welcome that part of the Law where when a man comes to the assembly there will be no power at that time as it was in this assembly to decide for another party, and he was either independent or a member of one party, it is not right, but I believe that the referendums must still be under another raiser or they must be viewed differently. Okay, I'll resume, the referendums, whether they like it or not, are a legitimate form of expression change of citizens and citizens can change the Constitution of their country, can change the laws of their country if more than 50% of them in the referendum say that that's where the story stops. So, regardless of the way the campaign and everything, if the citizens 50% plus 1 vote say that it's the law or that, there's nothing above it. And I will mention, for example, who I said today in the replica you may have forgotten, when Croatia entered the EU then the EU campaign was financed by foreign money with hundreds of millions of kunas, we were flooded with lenses, materials, workshops, flags, balloons with EU flags. Hundreds of millions of kunas all over the years and long before the start of negotiations, accession negotiations with the EU. And that money's coming from where? It came from the EU, it came from Germany, from France where everything from Brussels actually came from, right, and that wasn't the problem. If someone else, not to me but to someone, were to pay us for the campaign to join the EU, and not only him and in Sanader's time to understand each other and he was a great European EU advocate. On the other hand, you had no campaign, no money, no campaign, and now suddenly we are very concerned about who can finance the referendums and how the Croatian people will vote, and on the other hand we have allowed someone from Brussels to place hundreds of millions of kunas here uncontrollably and change the public change of citizens. And that's not all, then there were threats and pensions, etc., etc. I will never forget that at that time, at that time our General Ante Gotovina, I will say the hero, was in the eyes of a war criminal, so at that time it was allowed from The Hague to send a message to the Croatian people to join the EU, which was one precedent, which I hope someone remembers if someone who arranged an interview or someone else who watched him. So there are no double standards, the people of the Croatian people must have the last word, and please do not make it impossible for the people to decide their fate or that they can make referendums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126171	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. We have a replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126172	I know that sometimes you do, when we praise the Government because then, but here I will wish you a little, so I wish you an HRAST especially on behalf of the family, especially, Independent for Croatia, that in each election unit each party takes the HDZ 4.9%, it is almost 15% for your right hand, in each of these constituencies take what we are, no more than that but take so much from them. So, the fact that every political option has to keep to its credibility comes down to the following, we said the same thing in 2015 and 2019, so if we've proposed something and now HDZ is proposing such a proposal and we support you can't tell us that we've changed something, and you deal with them, you've entered the HDZ list, not even been coalitional, in the assembly and you've actually done the same thing as Pernar, only he for Alphaceda. And you for HRAST. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126173	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bauku, the answer of my colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126174	Dear colleague Bauk, here's thank you for your honesty, so our coalition agreement was that, as I was, I was never a member of any other party but HRAST, I never, therefore, thank you for your honesty and for wishing us a good result, but I am not a member of this HDZ, Plenkovic, left HDZ, who went all the way towards you, but I cannot wish you prosperity either. I would like them to have as few mandates as possible while they are like this, but I don't see that in due course, as I can say organically, this one can't have any sympathy for your party, so I want you to have as few mandates as possible, or to experience one complete cataclysm in view of the policy you're having.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126175	I thank my colleague Zekanovic, we move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126176	Thank you very much, the President-in-Office, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, so much has already been said so that I will then stick to only one part of which is not spoken by colleagues Grbin and colleagues Bauk who have well shown the SDP's views on this subject. Otherwise, when we passed this law in 2011, it was a prerequisite for opening the 23rd. Chapters which mean that this law is now entering this package of anti-corruption laws, and we have witnessed that since 2015, when Croatia by the index of perception and corruption had 51 points and the only time in its history has been outside the circle of corrupt countries, the index of perception and corruption from year to year is getting worse, after 2 years of being 49, I remember 50 points below which countries are considered corrupt, it is very important that we regulate the election campaign well and that no black funds, black bags, money under the table, the purchase of council members, the purchase of parliamentary deputies after the completed elections are not methods which, through political corruption, reduce the trust of citizens in public authorities, in politics and politicians, and thus reduce their will to the elections, which then only leads to a circle of political corruption that passes into the system of corruption, in fact, is the only the thought of corruption that no one would be able to offer any more than corruption and corruption. It is therefore important to ensure through these laws that citizens truly believe that their election date guarantees that the vote they give to a man who believes to represent their interests and until the end of the term of office will be his representative and not that by changing the party uniform, they will support the majority for which he has not received support. What I want to especially emphasise is which civil society has pointed out and that is to regulate political advertising on social networks. We are witnessing the roles of social networks if we follow elections around the world, we see that advertising on social networks has become very important, and it is therefore unusual for this advertising to be regulated by this law, however, as we have seen in e-consultation, the notion of media advertising of election promotion and referendum activities, advertising on social networks, the government has refused to regulate and while referring to the provisions of the 2003 Media Act and the Law on Electronic Media from 2013. I therefore believe that these are not good enough reasons and that until the second reading absolutely should regulate political advertising on social networks because, as there is one proverb, it is no longer a question of regulation but how to do so. I therefore ask that, until the second reading, once again, the possibility of regulating political advertising on social networks is considered in order to ensure transparency in this part as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126177	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Lackovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126178	Dear Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state. So in this here already late hour, I would like to point out some per me failures that need to be harmonised in relation to the second reading of a very important law and that this very inconsistencies and inconsistencies that were wanted to be corrected by existing laws would not be passed on later on to a new legal solution. Therefore, under Article 6 of the proposed law, the right to finance by the political party is according to the final results if they have received a member of the representative body. So here we have one moment of final results and so far we have had a constitutive session, so in Article 8(4), it says that if an independent representative or council member enters a political party that participates, so according to the final results, then the funds belong to the party and I see nothing controversial here, but I see a questionable one fact that if an independent councilman or independent councillors who enter from the candidate list of the group of voters into the representative body, why they would not have the right to set up a party and that the funds belonging to them as independent council members by the same model belong to the party themselves. What kind of problem is that? Here you have a problem of inherited situations which are difficult to resolve under the current law, there is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice which is currently current and which the DIP wants to revise in part and the word of the situation when after entering the representative body or parliament, independent members form or establish a party, or at the time of the establishment of the representative body, they were a political party that participates in the work of the representative body and you now have a situation to state in the transitional provisions in Article 98 that independent council members who have opened up a special financing account until the date of entry of this law and have become members of a political party that participates in the Assembly or representative body, may continue their regular activity through that account but can also shut it down or transfer funds to the party. So here in the transitional provisions again mention the term of the party that participates in the work of the representative body and now the question is being raised which party, that party which at the time of the publication of the final results has been established and what now with the situation in which we have in our county, where the party is formed just for the sake of easier financial management from the time of publication of the results to formation. So you can't cut or at least have to put it inside, so by which model the transitional provisions will be treated by a party that participates in the Croatian Parliament or representative body. You now have parties that are participating in the representative body, since according to the current law, they were established on the day of the formation of the representative body, and you cannot recognise them as having the right to continue to function until the next elections, because when the next elections come, then it will be important that they participate in these elections and have a member, and once again I want to draw attention to that if the ability to move and receive the financial resources of an independent representative in the political party is recognised by those independent council members who have won the mandate as independent but have formed their own parties. It is certainly a commendable fact that an entirely illogical provision has been corrected that compensation, an increase of 10% has not been recognised by the independent councils, and I want to stress another situation that will affect the non-transparentity of funding, which is the limitation of the total amount of election promotion costs and referendums where, for example, you put in me too low amounts for cities up to 100 000 kn and 1 million for the city of Zagreb, and let's say it's less than it is for one county, 600 000 kn one county or one constituency has a right million and a half kn and now that when you put it in line with the city of Zagreb, it turns out that it should at least have 3 million, and now it's not for non-transparent financing that will not go through paper but because of the fact that the price of media advertising services must be given to the media and the media that you have a long history of public relations that you have a lot, and that you have a lot of goodattitude , and that you have a lot of publicrelations , and that you have a lot ofresponsibility. If anyone, any party has a legal financier, how do you come and spar, say, I don't know, now to large parties or parties acting either at the level of the Republic of Croatia or at the level of large cities. I consider it a restriction, not to protect small ones, but it will only affect the non-transparency of funding and that it suits those who retain positions unlike those who should be included in election cycles, I think it is under number one, entrepreneurs, businessmen who have their own money who do not have to be afraid to show their money, which they can put in their campaigns and fight for what they consider to be good for the improvement of the Republic of Croatia. Please make these remarks concerning, to be given to transitional provisions, to be seriously examined and put into the Final Proposal of the Law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126179	Thank you, colleague Lackovic. Next debate, dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126180	Thank you, Vice President. The Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, as defined in the State budget, in accordance with the draft budget and for 2019, is defined by around 56 million kuna for the financing of political parties located here in the current meeting of HS, or on the day of the constitution of HS. If all parties in the Republic of Croatia should be equal, and I personally think that they should be equal and I am actually performing in this debate now from the aspect of those political parties that are not currently in HS, how they can be equal with these political parties if 56 million kuna is distributed mostly in part for HDZ and part for SDP. Since some of the smaller political options that are currently coming to the political scene, regardless of whether or in the current term, may be equal if much larger funds are allocated, the Maltas do not, for larger parties. If we are about to finance, I personally think that there should be some funding, not in the amount of 56 million kuna, because I listened to this Assembly and the parliamentary speaker of many ministers, mainly in regional development where there was no money for the assisted areas or mountainous mountainous areas, they said it was difficult to find 10 to 20 million kunas, we see that it is very easy to find the funds of 56 million kunas for the regular work of political parties, in fact, for the work of all of us, and since we know who creates a picture in the Republic of Croatia, we do not need to run away from our own responsibilities regardless of opposition and power, they are created by political parties, I personally think that the political picture, and in general, the image of the Republic of Croatia, is not exactly the thing that many people who leave it. In my performance, I will look back at the two facts that I have spoken and in the replicas themselves, I simply cannot accept the position to impose once again on the units of local self-government. Here, a nonstop thing is imposed, any other legal changes, always the funds of the local self-government units must carry out certain funding. We are now looking to introduce minimum censorships of funding for annual financing. We in Vrgorec have had the current decision in force, it will take a decision for 2019, given the financial situation we found, since we couldn't pay the minimum, we were simply forced to introduce such a thing because of any penalties that would be paid, for not paying much more monthly fees. If this tendency of the law goes into the introduction of minimum funds, I don't know why you weren't correct, so you wrote maximum censorships. Maximum censorships, just as you handed over the City of Zagreb, units of regional self-government, smaller and larger cities, why are no maximum censorships defined in the bill? That would be the minimum of humanity in today's politics. In the second part, it is not clear to me that when an independent representative moves on to a particular political party, with a political party located at the stage of the constitution or where he has already had final results, he is actually moving all his money to the expense of the party. If it comes out of that party, regardless of what it can win 100 000 preferential votes, specifically if it comes to elections for the Parliament and if it becomes independent, then the money cannot be paid to that independent representative in a special account even though he was present at the constitutive session neatly. I simply don't understand this criterion, I don't understand the criteria where political parties are again eligible, not independent representatives. But what happens in the next situation? Let's say we have five parliamentary deputies in five different units of local self-government on the voters' candidate list, and they form a party, not during the constitution, but during the call. Why can't the party that was newly formed be, say, two years from now be able to transfer money because you're saying the parties have to be there already. It's illogical, I don't know why, let's say, that detail couldn't be seen, why it doesn't really look at the detail, let's just break it more with these constitutions, with the moment of the final results, but simply to underline the line every year. Every year, who, sitting in which clubs and making such one-year decisions, is financed by all the political options that are represented. And I'm going to look back at my presentation because I see that some MPs, I hope the president won't remind me of it, have gone a little off-the-book, I'm going to look back on one subject that's a little bit talked about in this HS, it's about all the elections, it's an assembly of election committees. To whom does the most expensive journal in the Republic of Croatia that literally only sits four, five hours in the constituency? We know how the election committee is made up. The president, the vice president and eight members, those eight members, who chooses them? They are re-elected by political parties, and that is when representative bodies were disbanded. If we have a candidate list of a group of voters with a list bearer, with his OIB who was there in that assembly and if he was a city councilman, if he goes out on that list again with his same OIB, he has no right, the political parties have it. Why not simply be one proposal, because now look at how many electoral committees you have at RH level, so multiply that times eight, so multiply that times the number of members, four members in the family, and let's not lie, at least I personally passed the election cycle ohocho, as regards Vrgorec himself and the county. So it's a way of legally buying votes in Croatia on election day. 200,000 votes are bought in such a way, 200 thousand votes, those political options that are represented at the time of the break-up. Let's finally be tolerant of all those political options that are coming, so let's go to a fair and correct race, according to the system that the electoral committee is composed of the city's electoral commission, appointed by the County Election Commission, and that people are elected by the president of the city's electoral or municipal election committees and that they bring confirmation from the Employment Service that they are unemployed. That this final fee, which is the largest in Croatia, is not going to people with 5, 6, 7, 8 thousand kunas of monthly salary, but to be at least the most needed, at the time of the election. And we all know what election board members are for at the moment of the election. We know very well about the coll centres, and we know very well about the agitation, and we certainly know about the polling list, but obviously the big political parties or any other political options, which are currently in such conferences before the release, do not want that right to be denied. And otherwise, with the release cut off for the political existing options, it would finally allow us all to be equal at the beginning of election races, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126181	Thank you, colleague Prnić, we have replicas, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126182	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Pranic, following your discussions today, we agree that we are dramatically disagreeing with the view of individuals dealing with politics or so on. The independent, although very few there are independent, each one is dependent on someone and political parties. So, I support all the solutions that the political party's relationship with independent individuals, which prescribes that it goes to political parties, including that if an individual sets up a party, that there is no logic that it functions as party president, here's to say Mr Hasanbegovic, Esih and Glasovic, were founded by the party after entering the Zagreb City Assembly with an independent list. And it doesn't make any sense that they function as three individuals, instead of a club or a party with three MPs. And, of course, that's the way to deploy funds to the parties. So, I agree with this that the constitution should be moved, but no, no, sorry, Mr. Vice President, I didn't end up calling on behalf of the club if I could have another sentence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126183	I'd like to thank you for your freedom. Dear colleague Ante Pranic, the answer, no. Next replica, dear colleague Željko Lackovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126184	Thank you, Vice President. So, I support Mr Pranic's proposal, which says that it should be given when putting people in as members of election committees in the process cycle of elections, to view social status, or unemployment, because it is indeed true that in this way a single army of voters is generated. Is it a privilege for those who hold power and should remain such a privilege, I am not sure, but I know one more thing that should definitely change, in the Croatian election cycle, and that is the amount of compensation that judges receive, that is, members of election committees, i.e. GIP, ŽIP, who receive absolutely inappropriate fees for very little work. A few years ago, as mayor in my town, I refused to simply pay off.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126185	Thank you, dear colleague Lacikovic, for your response, colleague Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126186	Comrade Lackovic, I absolutely understand you and I absolutely support you and I understand why you supported my presentation, let's say, in your replica. So two are the things that big political options keep alive right now at the time of the election cycle. It is money obtained from the state budget for regular funding and that is on the day of the election of the voter's responses. One who understands the election process at all, the election day, understands what I am saying and does not want large political options to change the composition of the electoral committees, by the system to be named unbiased, the same thing that will never be done by any reform of education, while the school committees mostly name the majority composition of school boards as founders of regional self-government, means until we get rid of the policy, primarily the election committees' ministry, we will never get a fair political system in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126187	I would like to thank my colleague Pranic and the last replica, Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126188	Thank you very much, Vice President. I appreciate your work and your desire to streamline all costs and expenses, also a reduction in the fee on one kuna and zero, and you have made an observation as to why the law is going with the minimum amount of compensation. Then I don't understand if you're trying not to make a minimum amount, why do you advocate, that the legislator should prescribe the maximum amount. Which, like you said, you wish the law had the maximum amount. As far as the election committees are concerned, I can tell you that it is on every basis of the branch, or city, municipal, committee of the party that delegates its member to the electoral committee and we strive to really be unemployed in front of them and young people. Another cartoon, I don't think, and I don't agree with you, if I'm here on the HDZ list you're on the Mosta list and tomorrow we form after a year, two, one of your parties, that amount belongs to that new apartment, because surely those who gave us the vote have also given us our website.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126189	I thank my esteemed colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, a fellow colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126190	In my response to the replica, I will look back on another problem, I hope you will understand me, and that is how much political options and political parties pay, the area of space owned by the local self-government unit, and the basis for which they pay them. So look a little bit in Croatia, how the mayors, mayors, mayors, just the mayors don't have the property, but here's the Republic of Croatia, in the case of former committees, where SDP finds how much they are paid and paid in accordance with the court's expert's assessment of the value of the space or are just being paid in a flat-rate manner. If there is such a minimum amount, I personally believe that all the mayors and commissioners will assess that according to the court expert the value of the areas that are owned, so ultimately the political parties that work will pay the space so that they should otherwise pay it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126191	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. Final word, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126192	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. We are really talking here today about some kind of upgrade, and we haven't even solved some basic questions. Let's say, when we talk about a referendum, the question is how many voters exist in Croatia at all, because, let's say, arbitraryly from year to year, we claim that the voter is as much or as much and then we ask these citizens' initiatives to raise 10%, and we don't know for ourselves exactly what number it is exactly. What's more, we actually know, but we keep falsifying that data. It all started at the time of the 2000 HDZ government, which held two elections in January, were first parliamentary and then presidential, the second round and in that second round of presidential elections there were 264 thousand voters more than in the elections held only 22 days earlier. Then we had a referendum on EU accession where 400,000 voters were registered, so in 2013, there would suddenly be 3,800 000 voters in the 2015 local elections. So in just two years, the number of voters decreased by 300 thousand, although it's absolutely not possible because the annual decline is demographic, so the number of people born and died is about 10-15 thousand a year. So in those two years, the number of Croatians could be reduced by about 30,000 maximum, not 300 thousand. It was a correction made by Mr. Bauk, the then minister of administration, but even that correction was essentially wrong because those estimates we have at the State Statistics Office show that in Croatia there is a maximum, but a maximum of 3 390 000 minors, which means that even with that corrected number, there are 400 thousand voters who do not exist. The nonexistent. So we have ghosts, I don't know, dead, who doesn't vote, but in any case these figures are completely irrelevant. And this when the minister says, I don't know, the citizens' initiative, any, you have to raise 380 thousand or 10% of them are actually asking them to raise 11 or 12% of the votes, which means that the state has already put itself in an unfavourable position for those who collect signatures with intention to make these initiatives impossible. And here we can, of course, ask ourselves why in Croatia, like some other countries, in general when people go to elections, they don't have to sign. In Croatia, the vote is unsigned. Is that a question of the number of voters? In fact, just the tip of the ice santa because it applies not only to referendums but also to parliamentary and other elections. This is what raises doubts about us, doubting that the government actually wants to remain in power at all costs, that it does not respect some basic democratic procedure, not only about the referendum, but about any way of declaring citizens, and all with the aim of manipulating and, therefore, by bureaucratic imposing the rules, ensuring its authority for a while. So this question is very important, but in this way it cannot be solved, at least completely and for this reason, the Living Wall will completely reject this bill, we will vote against, whether anything will change until the second reading, let's hope, but it has proved that there is usually no change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126193	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for this final word. Final word on behalf of the Proposer, Honored Secretary of State, Josepha Rimac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126194	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, distinguished parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. This debate, which lasted nearly 5 hours on a very important Law on the financing of political activity and electoral promotion and referendum, has certainly shown that the Proposer has foreseen a series of improvements and what is most important that the law itself brings greater and clearer transparency of work, in particular political parties, independent representatives, but also how to raise funds, whether for regular annual financing or for election promotion as well as for their spending. What I certainly wish you had mentioned more in the debate itself, which is the introduction of a new information system that will greatly, all of us who participated in the elections, facilitate all of the procedures that we have in each individual election, whether it is parliamentary, European, local or presidential elections. Also as legislators of this law, we wanted to clearly define and improve the meaning of all the shortcomings that were in force in the law, primarily respecting the will of the voters when we talk about final election results and not the very constitution in terms of transition, the transitions of individual elected MPs both in the Croatian Parliament and at local level. In this constructive discussion of yours, we have heard a lot of open topics, a lot of things that may have not been clear to you, I believe that until the second reading, we, as well as the promoters, will consider all your proposals and that in the second reading, we will have an even better proposal of law, even more transparent. And I believe that in the debate, we're going to focus more on the law itself, on the content of the law, and not on the other laws that are related to this topic, meaning election processes. Once again, I thank everyone, and I believe that until the second reading we will follow certain constructive proposals and that we will have an even better law as legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126195	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this closing statement. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Administration, Mrs. Josipi Rimac, for the reasons and for the answers to the counsel's questions. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126196	Proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, first reading, P.Z. Number 519. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 78 for, 22 abstentions, passed law, pardoned the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126197	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 444; The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Article 172 of the Constitution and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. I call upon the representative of the proposer of the respected State Secretary of Defense, Mr. Zdravko Jakop, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126198	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Today we present to you the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment and the Differences against the Proposal for a Law adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 19 October last year are certain nomotechnical harmonisations and we have given reasons in accordance with the debate on the working bodies and session of the Croatian Parliament. The proposed law harmonizes the provisions of the applicable law with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council as well as with the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons which have been transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia by directives which determine the area of construction, modernisation and use of capacity for the production and repair of arms and military equipment. The entry of the Republic of Croatia fully revived the application of arms codification procedures and military equipment in accordance with... norms adopted as Croatian military norms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The use of these standards is mandatory for participants in the process of manufacturing arms and military equipment and it is necessary to implement, codify arms and military equipment in this legislative framework. In the same way, it is proposed to regulate and ensure quality and quality control of weapons and military equipment. The proposed law also reduces the deadline within which the Ministry of Defence decides whether it is a confidential invention of interest in defence from 90 days to 60 days, which speeds up the process of creating new and innovative products for defence and market purposes. Finally, the aim of the proposed amendments to this law is to introduce the highest standards in the production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment, as well as a clearly defined and applicable system of codification and quality assurance and control of weapons and military equipment quality. Therefore, I strongly suggest that you support the final proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126199	I would like to thank Mr. Jakop, the esteemed Secretary of State. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126200	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you're saying you're going to introduce the highest standards around the aircraft repairs. I wonder if it was found in the ministry that someone was responsible for that remont plane in Ukraine. In fact, it's known that we've given 150 million kuna and we haven't gotten back any money or planes. These planes stand today at the airport, so I wonder if inside the ministry itself someone is responsible because it has been found that the company, that the employees of Aeropartner who intervened in the business, participated in corrupt operations and were charged against them, so I'm wondering if someone took responsibility for it within the Ministry itself and if they were in what way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126201	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126202	I thank Mr. Chairman, I welcome the representatives of the ministry. On behalf of the Club of the Most Independent Lists, I will explain why we will be against such a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. So, according to the proposal of the Most Representatives Club, the applicant listed the following. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists states that the abolition of Articles 10 and 15 of the existing law shuts down the possibility of survival of a part of the defence industry which is not profitable in the peacetime but is extremely important for the security of the state at wartime. Without support for the maintenance of cold power, we come to a situation so that tanks in the event of war may become significantly less useful because their maintenance and repairs would be very questionable, which means that these tanks in the event of war would be useless to us. The proposal shall specify the provisions of Articles 10 and 15 of the applicable Law on the Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, as well as the area of construction, reconstruction or modernisation, and the use of capacity for the production and repair of arms and military equipment, as well as the transport of arms and military equipment. The use of all available resources in the war is governed by the Defence Act. However, the MOST did not thus formulate its proposals in the debate but stated that the abolition of Articles 10 to 14 of the existing law put an end to the possibility of survival of a part of the defence industry that is not profitable in the peacetime, and is extremely important for the security of the state at wartime. The second thing that the promoter is wrong is that the use of available resources in the war is determined by the Defence Act, it is not at all disputed, nor has MOST opposed that available resources are regulated by the Defence Act, but the promoter is obviously not aware of the fact that there are available resources in the war, which will not be if this proposal is adopted in this way by the final law because the possibility of maintaining the cold drive of part of the defence industry is extinguished. It is also known to the sparrows at the branch that in peaceful times part of the military industry does not work, and it is completely out of business that a part of such industry is of paramount importance to the security of the state because in wartime conditions, it is difficult to create a military industry from 0 in particular if there is exposure to the embargo or sanctions that we felt in the Homeland War in the worst possible way possible. By neglecting that part of the industry that has no reason to do business in peace, but as a result, it is not going to be subsidized by the state anymore that many manufacturers of irreplaceable military equipment and weapons will simply disarm the plants for what is currently not profitable and will permanently lose the possibility of war activation in the real time needed. We mentioned and mentioned the Đuro Đaković factory as one of the most renowned arms and military equipment manufacturers in Croatia. The Croatian Army currently has about 75 M84 tanks in version A4 A5. These tanks produced by Djuro Djakovic, for example. They have certain components Đuro Đakovic has no reason to produce at the moment, but in the event of war, such production of some of the more used components would be necessary for the maintenance and combat use of these tanks. Without support for the maintenance of cold power, we are in a situation where these tanks in the event of war may become significantly less useful because their maintenance, repairs and hence the use would be very questionable. Today, the Croatian military faces the poor management of individual economic operators, or the motherhood of the state towards those legal entities that produced arms and military equipment. A series of companies that have acquired large renaissances have failed due to the lack of support from the state, for those who do not know we know that in the MORH we will only mention some of the companies that were the base of defence in the Homeland War, that later due to the poor and incorrect policies of the state-owned company Alan and the MORH were pushed into bankruptcy, the failure resulting in a lack of defence production capacity, namely Novisuis, Imostro Imotski, Arma, etc., some of these companies such as Novuis produced some of the most advanced and unique systems in the world whose production will never again be possible because no one has made it possible to invest or preserve the cold drive. The Proposer is therefore neither legal nor professional, nor political right. The justification for disagreement with EU rules on the free market and the non-injuriousness in real, non-real frameworks of the state budget is untrue, because neither the EU prohibits such rules, nor is the problem in the existence of funds and unpredictability, but rather in the mere inadequacy and lack of will to verify which these are strategically important cold drives and in which they are to be regulated. The proposer states that eradicating the possibility of abuse is therefore in line with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe 2009/81EC of 13 July 2009 and that there are possible and different ways to achieve what the contents of the Directive are without breaching the provisions of the Directive. The legal, political and economic position of the applicant is entirely incorrect as can be seen from examples of other countries that have similar legislation as it is now, and as this will no longer be if such a bill is adopted. Therefore, that directive does not prohibit the outset at all. Although a whole series of points and articles of the cited directive point to exceptions that essentially provide for any form of business that is in the interest of developing the security and defence capacities of a country, I will, for example, here. To quote point 19 of the introduction of the Directive, which states: "The conclusion of contracts falling within the scope of this Directive may be excluded from its application in cases where it is justified by reasons of public security or necessary to protect the essential security interests of a Member State." Therefore, the proposer, as is unfortunately the case for Croatian institutions, is too strict and unequivocal to interpret the provisions of the Directive, of course at the expense of the defence industry of the Republic of Croatia, since, in addition to the possibility of transfer of technologies to the Republic of Croatia, it is also possible to strengthen other branches of the economy. Justification that the provisions of the Directive can be met differently, for example. International agreements are referred to by the Proposer to check how long the procedures for the conclusion of international agreements take place from drawing up drafts of various consents, voting in governments and in parliaments, etc. It's lifeless, impractical and very difficult. The real reason for the suspension of the offset lies in the inability of the Croatian defence administration to carry out such tasks. In particular, it would refer to the amendment of the article. 17 of the existing law in a way to remove the government's obligation to report on imported and exported weapons and military equipment, it is true that I am based on art. Six and 45. The law on the control of the traffic of military use and non-military killings provides data to the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, which unites them in the annual report on exports and imports of military use goods and non-military means of killing for commercial purposes, which have been submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for adoption. However, such reports do not show how much funds and what kind of assets are imported for the purposes of which the ministries, defences, internal affairs or other matters are not mentioned, nor are the problems mentioned, affairs about them. A very smut is reported by the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, it's a very smut of reports, and I'm not talking about the MUP. Remember the recent examples of purchases of used F-16, the Mi-17-SH remont and the purchase of vests for the MUP. These procurements, which filled the media space due to intransparentity, irrationality and doubt of convenience, are clear. We ask for such reports to be more detailed, to include in this article an additional obligation for the ministries in the reports to also show that imports, exports, weapons of military equipment that have clearly caused increased interest. The Proposer suggests eradicating the ofset possibilities and seeks to conceal it under the cover of the free market, however, as it has already been in us, it is a misreading. The applicable market rules, both the Republic of Croatia and the EU, do not naturally defend any transfer of technologies to the Republic of Croatia under the offset contract, but are prohibited from working under non-transparent and uneven conditions, just as is the case, for example. worked out in the purchase of an F-16 plane, which the public doesn't know all the details yet, and as things stand, they probably won't even know. Change Art. 22 and 23 of the existing law, as proposed in the final proposal, continues to be a step backwards both in the security of the citizens and in the security of the state and thus, the club of representatives remains and we hope that after some accident in which someone will die in the plants for the production, storage or transport of weapons and military equipment, no one will speak and we won't have to say, we told you. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 25 is proposed to regulate safety in such a way that manufacturers are obliged to organise capacity assurances from the access of unauthorized persons to adequate physical and technical protection during the working process related to production, remonting and transport. In accordance with the provisions of this law and other laws, such a vague definition can lead to someone realizing that safety should only be taken into account during working hours, and some later, so we do not accept the pausal explanation of the motion given in the final draft of the law. These are just some examples and therefore the club of the Independent Lists cannot support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126203	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja for this debate. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So here is the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms as well as military equipment, which welcomes its adoption, these changes and additions to production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment, and these amendments and additions have more objectives. Regulation of the codification of arms and military equipment in the legislative form. Quality assurance regulation and quality control of military equipment weapons according to the STATAG standard 4107. Deleting the provisions on cold drive, a process that is in practice on the market in accordance with EU rules on the free market, avoiding overlapping the provisions of the Law on Production and Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment with provisions of other laws, which specifically refers to the regulation of construction, reconstruction or modernisation, and the use of capacity for production and remonting of arms and military equipment. Disposal of economic operators of the costs of implementing measures to ensure and protect the production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment, when the production of remounted weapons and military equipment is not in place. Dissolve the scientific and research community and accelerate the process, create new innovative products for defence and market purposes. Reduction of administrative barriers to economic operators and scientific research institutions and simplification of business, related to the production, remont and transport of arms and military equipment, as well as the introduction of the highest standards in the production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment through a clearly defined and generally variable codification system and quality assurance and control of arms and military equipment quality. Here we should especially highlight the huge space for economic growth and development right through the production of weapons and military equipment in the Republic of Croatia. The companies involved in this production produce envious results, both in achieving high-quality production of weapons and equipment and in their innovation. These economic operators ensure stability on the market, not only their business but also the business stability of their co-operatives, but also make a significant contribution to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia worldwide. All of this proposed is in line with the legal property of the European Community and the additions of the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, in Article. 28-30 The Treaty establishing the EU together the European Community, which regulates an unregulated and non-harmonised area and prohibits the import and export quantity of restrictions between Member States, as well as measures with the equivalent effect of quantitative restrictions. There is clear talk of what laws are related to this law applicable to the production, remont and the arms market as well as military equipment and further we can say that the Act on the Control of Goods, with separate intent, the Law on Control, Transport,... the purpose and the unsuspecting means of killing, the Explosive Substances Act, and the production and transport of weapons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These laws are directly related to the production of remont, as well as the transport of arms and military equipment, and we can say that economic operators having military and civil, and manufacturing remonting programmes, dual purposes will be exempt from costs, as I said, implementing measures, insurance and protection of production, remonting and transport of arms and military equipment, when production and repairs of weapons are not in the administration. This is important to emphasize, given that this segment compensates for what someone said and I think it speaks clearly about what economic operators get from this law. The proposed law also reduces the period within which the Ministry of Defence decides whether a confidential invention is of interest to defence affairs,... the days are reduced to 60 days, decommissioning the scientific research community and speeding up the process of creating new innovative products for defence and market purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These amendments to the legislation will add to the reduction of administrative barriers, economic operators and scientific research innuendos and simplification of operations related to the production of remont and transport of arms and military equipment. The aim of this law is to introduce the highest standards in the production and repair and transport of arms and military equipment through a clearly referenced generally variable codification system, which is clearly described as quality assurance and control, the quality of weapons of military equipment. Once again, the HDZ Club welcomes the adoption of that law, and we hope that it will be of vital benefit to our producers who work in production and I think that 28 companies working on the production of weapons, murderous goods, equipment and its trade, and absolutely their co-operatives who are significantly more and cross several hundred, who are in the system and who are very well-recognizable throughout the world, and we hope and believe that this law will contribute to a better standard and accelerated processes in the military industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126205	I thank my colleague Djakić, we are moving on to individual discussions, dear colleague Miro Bulj, is not present, dear colleague Irena Perievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126206	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected representatives of the defence ministry, Mr. Jacob and Mr. Barac, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, this law should be praised because he is one of a series of laws passed by this government and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia to the principle with Minister Krstic, which is planned in terms of establishing better standards and improving military infrastructure. And I don't agree with what I just said, that this law has no right or professionally adequate justification, on the contrary, if we carefully read this law and the arguments on the basis of which the directive was created, or whatever was previously taken into account that we do not list, then we will come to the opposite conclusion. It is totally unacceptable for me to have some thesis that the Croatian defence system, therefore, did not have adequate infrastructure or would not have it, if we return to the nearer Croatian past, then we must be aware that in moments when the Croatian defence system had no adequate infrastructure at all, it had enough human factor to replace this first, especially today, when we have both first and second and therefore, I do not understand how someone could talk about some poor infrastructure management or poor defence system or about a bad law that comes from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic. And what's important to say, by this law, economic operators, who have military and civil production remont programs, will be freed from the cost of carrying out insurance and repairs, when these weapons programmes are not in use, that's absolutely logical. These amendments in this law will contribute to reducing administrative barriers, which is very logical to me, those economic operators, which I mentioned briefly, will simplify the business, related to production and remont. I don't see what's not logical here, and I'm going to remind you in the end, not to be longer, since this is already a late hour, and there are no more opposition deputies, because obviously these laws are not interesting enough, although they are very important, that the previous two governments have had the opportunity to pass two key laws, given that Croatia is a member of NATO and the EU, and as far as strategic documents are concerned, i.e. The National Security Strategy and the Homeland Security System, the National Security System Act, unfortunately, failed to do so. The government has already adopted both key documents at the half of its mandate. Not only has it adopted these two key documents, plus a series of these laws that I have mentioned, has established a co-ordination amongstsor, which is responsible for the implementation of these strategic documents, which has already held 5 quality sessions, which are very proactive and which solve all problems at an adequate level, in that inter-resorial cooperation, which is expected between the MORH and all parties involved in solving the problem, concerning the Croatian defence system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126207	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. The next debate is the esteemed colleague Angelko Strick, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126208	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Assistant Minister. The Act on the Production and Remont and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment regulates the planning, development of production and remont, the criteria for the determination and use of capacity for production and refurbishing, insurance and protection of production and transport, production and remonting of arms and military equipment in the war and in the event of a direct threat to independence and unity of the Republic of Croatia and the recognition of patents for inventions which are of interest to defence affairs. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into NATO in 2009 fully revived the application of the arms and military equipment codification procedure in line with the STANAG standards adopted as Croatian military norms in accordance with the STANAG standards adopted as Croatian military norms. The application of those standards is mandatory for all participants in manufacturing, remonting and transport of arms and military equipment, as well as for ensuring the quality and control of the quality of arms and military equipment. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws of economic operators having military and civil and manufacturing and refurbishment programmes of military purposes will be exempt from the cost of implementing measures to ensure the production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment when the production and repair programmes of arms and military equipment are not in use. The aim of this law is also to introduce the highest standards in the production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment through a clearly defined and generally applicable system of codification, quality assurance and quality control of arms and military equipment. When we talk about world arms trade in 2017 towards Swedish international and... The Stockholm Institute has reached $374 billion adding that over the last year, market analysis recorded significant growth in arms trade. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to them, 20 of the world's largest arms exporters were the United States, Russia, China, France, Germany, UK, Spain, Italy, Ukraine, Israel, the Netherlands, Sweden, South Korea, Switzerland, Canada, Turkey, Norway, Belarus, South Africa, Australia and among the 20 largest arms importers were India, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, China, Algeria, Turkey, Australia, Iraq, Pakistan, Vietnam, Egypt, USA, South Korea, Indonesia, Taiwan, Singapore, Venezuela, Bangladesh, Israel and the UK. Their analysis shows that our neighbouring countries among the 20 largest exporters are Italy alone, while among the arms importers there are no countries in our neighborhood. When we speak to the Croatian defence industry, I note that during last year, our soldiers in retirement missions were sent equipped and armed with all the products of our Croatian producers. I therefore believe that they are the best promoter of our defence industry in the world and that it needs to be supported by what this law provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126209	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Angel Uncle. Final word on behalf of the motionary State Secretary, Mr. Zdravko Jakop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126210	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. I have to say here that this government and the Department of Defense daily gives support to our military industry and this is also visible from a concrete example that our soldier is equipped with our equipment and that he is the best promoter of our industry. When we talk here about these MiGs, I must say that the competent authorities have received all the necessary documentation and that this is also a problem that we inherited and believe that from day to day we are looking for solutions so that these aircraft are in the air and that Croatia can meet all the requirements regarding air navigation control, our sky and all the tasks that Croatian Air Force and Croatian Army have in accordance with the law and the Croatian Constitution. When we talk here about this cold drive, I regret that this function has never been put into operational use so that this area has been resolved by other laws, among other things the Defence Act and the Ministry of Defence also in this area gives support to our military industry. And when we talk about offset, that part and this law are in line with the European Parliament and Council Directive. And here you said well it does not prohibit agreements and contracts and the Ministry of Defense absolutely works on it. As for the purchase of F16 planes, it was very transparent, systematic and legal. And the Republic of Croatia was unable to influence the outcome of the transfer of technology permit, so-called The TPT was the exclusive obligation of the State of Israel which had to ensure this in agreement with the United States, and it was spoken of by both the Ambassador and the Director of the Ministry of Defence of the State of Israel. And finally I want to thank you for your constructive discussion, on your proposals and we will continue to work in support of our military industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126211	Thank you. Replica, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126212	My dear secretary. Here, I'm wondering if there's a possibility that since we haven't achieved this, this acquisition of the plane that it's a purely political decision or that Trampo's cabinet didn't simply want to sell us planes because of some geopolitical interests, the situation and the rest, because as far as I'm concerned, I'm following geopoliticals, that Trump wanted to sell us planes, he would have allowed it regardless of the procedure, to, let's say, some permits and so on. Is it possible hypothetical that we, by the political decision of Trump's cabinet, were prevented from getting these planes because apparently, and that's what your military analysts said from the ministry, that in NATO's strategy, the RS has no military aviation, here, that's another issue actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126213	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. The answer to Mr. Zdravko Jakop's respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126214	I gave the answer to your question, so the state of Israel has committed itself to solving that part, which, unfortunately, has not happened, and now we are where we are, and the procedure is led systematically and transparently and legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126215	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. The next replica, dear colleague Josip Djakic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, so here is when the unequivocal doubts about the process and the transparency of the procurement of F-16 today's evening writes clearly and publishes documents that Americans delivered to the Croatian government in 2017 that they agree to sell their F-16 aircraft. That they didn't find common language with... It is really not a crime of the Croatian Government, nor of the Ministry of Defence, nor of the Minister and Vice-President of the Government, nor of the Secretary of State, nor of anyone from the Croatian Government. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe, we hope to have the F-16, I believe that's what you're thinking, and that this procedure will end in the future with the supply of the squadron you need.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126217	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josip Djakic. We've concluded the debate with this. I would like to thank Mr. Zdravko Jakop and Mr. Peter Barac, the secretary of defense, for his reasons and for his answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126218	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Production, Remont and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, second reading, P.Z. 444. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Remonting and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 99 votes are in favour, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126219	We move to four points of the agenda that are next as planned, we are based this morning. 247, Rules of Procedure of the HS decided to conduct a united discussion, and this is about: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, Second Reading, No. P.Z. No. 520 - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the First Additional Protocol with the General Rules of the World Postal Union, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 521 - Final proposal of the Law confirming the ninth additional protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union, second reading, P.Z. No. 522 and - Final proposal of the Law confirming the postal payment services agreement with the final protocol, second reading, P.Z. No. 523 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the relevant Committees on Law and the Competent Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. I now call on the Secretary of State of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure, Mr Tomislav Mihotic to give us an additional explanation for all four Final Proposals of the Law. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126220	The Honorable Vice-President of HS, MPs, these 4 of the Law, is the first final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol. The World Postal Convention is one of the fundamental international legal instruments of the World Postal Union, which is binding on all Member States. The Convention shall contain common rules applicable and applicable to all international postal services, as well as provisions on services for written consignments and postal packages, and the Final Protocol to the World Postal Convention shall contain reserves on that international Treaty. The new World Postal Convention adopted at the Convention in Istanbul, which is confirmed by this Act, amends the provisions governing the ownership of postal shipments, the processing of personal data by users, the use of Union forms, the contents of basic postal services and additional services, the return of shipments, the customs of postal consignors, the responsibility of appointed postal service providers and the sender for individual consignments, the payment and payment of invoices in international exchange in postal transport, the amount of fees, methods and criteria for financing the development of postal services in less developed countries and others. The final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the First Additional Protocol with the General Rules of the World Postal Union, the General Rules of the World Postal Union shall contain provisions ensuring the application of the Constitution of the World Postal Union and its harmonised work, the work of Congress, the extraordinary Congress, and the establishment, the working meetings of the Administrative Council, the Council on Postage Operations and the Advisory Committee, the provisions on the international office, the procedure for submitting the proposal to Congress, the establishment and regulation of the costs of the World Postal Union, the contributions of Member States and the development of contributions, the use of languages within the Union, the arbitration procedure and other significant issues. The first additional Protocol, in addition to the General Rules which are confirmed by this Act, lays down the amendments and additions to the General Rules, in particular the provisions on the functioning of the Congress, the composition and functioning of the Governing Council, the Postal Operations and Advisory Council, the provisions on obligations under the responsibility of the Director-General of the International Office on the preparation and delivery of Union body documents, the provisions on the procedures for submitting the proposal to the Congress, and the provisions on the contributions of the Member States and other issues. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Ninth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union. The Constitution of the World Postal Union is a fundamental act of the Union which contains all the fundamental rules of the World Postal Union and cannot be reserved on it. Amendments and additions to the Constitution of the World Postal Union adopted at Congress shall be adopted in the form of an additional protocol with the Constitution. The ninth additional protocol, in addition to the Constitution of the World Postal Union, which is confirmed by this law, lays down amendments and additions to the Constitution which contain provisions on the part-line and objectives of the Union, complementing and interpreting the concepts used in the postal sector, provisions on Union acts, and by way of effect and the duration of the provisions of this Ninth Additional Protocol. The final proposal of the Law confirming the postal payment services agreement with the final protocol. The postal payment service agreement shall ensure the provision of secure and accessible postal payment services adapted to the maximum number of users on the basis of a system enabling interoperability of postal service providers networks. Interoperability of networks is necessary in order to modernise work processes and is a prerequisite that must be met in order to successfully communicate users in the electronic data exchange system. The new Postage Payment Services Agreement, which is confirmed by this Act, provides in particular provisions in the field of application of the Agreement, the designation of entities authorised to fulfil the obligations arising from the accession of this Agreement, the provisions of the operational capabilities of the designated postal service providers for... with other postal sector entities and provisions on ensuring access to other networks at affordable conditions and prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order for the Republic of Croatia to become parties to those international contracts of the World Postal Union and their provisions to enter into force and become part of the internal and legal order of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 141 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is proposed to adopt those 4 laws on the confirmation of these international contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126221	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Mihotic, for the reasons of the final proposals of these four laws. We have a replica, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126222	Dear Secretary of State, here I must admit it was my pleasure to hear that apart from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia we have another constitution that is mentioned here in this House, and our Constitution is the Postal Union, it's my one newspaper. Of course, we welcome all of this and here it is, I think, that it would actually point to one valuable and diligent work of all Croatian mailmen that we can thank for our system working in general but here I have to say this newspaper means that there is another Constitution at all, that is very interesting to me. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126223	My friend, you've been having a bit of a funky look at this replica, you could have taken the word but good. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126224	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, Before us today are in a united discussion of 4 postal transport and services laws and these are the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the First Additional Protocol with the General Rules of the World Postal Union, Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Ninth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union and the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Postal Payment Services Agreement with the Final Protocol. The World Postal Union was founded on 9 October 1874 and the UN Special Agency became the headquarters of the Union in Bern, the Union has 192 members. The Union's objective is to develop the communication of postal services to achieve cooperation with the cultural, social and economic fields. The Union's mission is to promote the development and efficiency of postal services and the quality of the same, guarantees of the free postal mailing protocol, common standards of use and advanced technology, improve cooperation, ensure the needs of users that are constantly changing. The Union is working together with other UN organisations and programmes of which the UN's most important development programme is, then the UN Environment Programme, the International Drug Control Programme, the International Telecommunications Union, the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the International Labour Organisation and the World Customs Organisation. The Supreme Body of the Union is a Congress consisting of representatives of the Member States, the Administrative Council of the Union, a permanent body that ensures the continuity of work between the two conventions. The Council shall be responsible for technological, commercial, technical and economic issues. The Council shall also be responsible for financial matters i.e. prices, fees, cross-border postal services, airport charges, package charges,... shipments, preparation of information, opinions and recommendations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The executive body of the Union, an international office, headed by the general director elected by Congress. The Director-General shall organise, manage and direct the work of the International Office and shall be its authorised representative, which shall inform the Member States of the adopted amendments to the Union acts. The Union shall be financed from the contribution of the Member States and the official language shall be French. The Republic of Croatia is a party to the Fifth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union drawn up in Seoul on 14 September 1994, and then to the Sixth Protocol drawn up in Beijing on 15 September '99, the 7th World Postal Union drawn up in Bucharest on 5 October 2004, the 8th Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union drawn up in Geneva on 12 August 2008, the First Additional Protocol with the General Rules of the World Postal Union drawn up in Geneva on 12 August 2008, the First Additional Protocol with the General Rules of the World Postal Union on 12 August 2008, the World Postal Union drawn up in Doha on 11 October 2012, the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol and the Agreement on Postage Payments, also in Geneva on 11 August 2012, An agreement on postal payment services with the final protocol was adopted at the Union Congress in Istanbul on 6 October 2016. This Agreement shall be governed by the following; amending and supplementing the provisions on the scope of the Agreement, the provisions on the designation of entities authorised to fulfil the obligations arising from the accession of this Agreement, the provisions on the operational opportunities of designated postal service providers to negotiate with other postal sector entities, the provisions on ensuring access to other networks under accessible conditions. In short, I'm going to say what's being arranged with each of these four laws that we have today. The Law confirming the World Postal Union shall amend and supplement the provisions on the ownership of postal consignment, in particular in the case of a change or addition to the address of users, the processing of personal data of users, the use of Union forms, the content of basic postal services and additional services, and the return of shipments, the customs of postal consignors, the responsibilities of designated postal service providers and consignors for individual consignments, the payment and collection of accounts for international exchanges in postal transport and the amount of compensation, methods and criteria for the financing of the development of postal services in less developed countries. In addition to the second law or to the General Rules of the World Postal Union, the additional Protocol of the Union lays down amendments to the general rules and provisions on the functioning of the Congress, on the composition and functioning of the Governing Council, the Council for the Post Office and the Advisory Committee, the provisions on the obligations and responsibilities of the Director-General of the International Office, the preparation and delivery of documents of the Union body, the provisions on the procedures of conduct, the proposals, the submission of proposals to Congress and their amendments, and the provisions and contributions of the Member States. In addition to the Ninth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union, it contains the following most significant amendments and additions to the provisions of the Constitution of the World Postal Union and those provisions on the Union's work and objectives, additions and interpretation of the concepts used in the postal sector, provisions on Union acts and the entry into force and duration of the provisions. The agreement on postal payment services with the final protocol shall regulate the following: amendments and additions to the provisions on the scope of the agreement, the provisions on the appointment of entities authorised to fulfil the obligations arising from the accession of this Agreement, the provisions on the operational opportunities of designated postal service providers to negotiate with other postal sector entities, the provisions on ensuring access to other networks under accessible conditions, prices and the entry into force of this Agreement. To implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will accept all 4 proposals of this postal service law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126225	Thank you, dear colleague Maximchuk. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on these agenda points. I thank the state secretary, Mr Tomislav Mihotic, and the head of the sector at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Kreš, Kresa Antonovic, for these additional explanations. We'll vote on these points when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues with this have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. We continue with the work of the plenary session tomorrow at 9:30 in the morning with a agenda point Final proposal of the Act on the Accessibility of Networks and Program Solutions for Public Sector Movement Devices, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 409. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the evening. Session adjourned at 20.25 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-30-0.u126226	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 520. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, and I am voting on that final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 99 votes are in favour of, the Law on Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let's get back to work. First point: - Final proposal of the Law on the Accessibility of Networks and Software Solutions for Public Sector Movement Devices, Second Reading, P.Z. E. No. 409. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information and Information and Media. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. With us is respected Bernard Gršić, State Secretary of the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society. Secretary of State, go ahead.
