ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135360	Good morning, everyone. Today is the first item on the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Land Books, first reading, P.Z. No. 603; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 68(3). 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and the applicant will be represented here by Mr. Secretary of State Josip Salapic of the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135361	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected MPs and MPs. A draft of the Law on Land Books. The ground-marking procedure shall be defined as an emergency procedure in Art. 96 and deadlines shall be laid down for the adoption of a solution in regular and special land-marking procedures. Regular procedures, registration of the right of ownership, registration of the right of publishing, we shall give a period of 15 days for the adoption of a solution in art. 115 laws. The individual proper procedure is prescribed by new deadlines. 30 work activities for the adoption of a solution on the opening of an individual correct procedure from the date of receipt of the orderly proposal. 30 days of notice, deadline for submission of applications and complaints. 60 working days to hold the debate since the last day of the deadline from the ad. 8 working days for decision-making after the hearing is concluded. We introduce decisions when no debate is held, 30 working days from the expiry of the deadline from the ad. The establishment and restoration of land books, for 160 catastrian municipalities for which land books are not kept, is prescribed for a period of 5 years for the establishment of land books, i.e. a period of 3 years for the establishment of land books for those cadastrian municipalities in which land documents or land records have been kept since the date of entry into force of the law. The mortgages entered by 1 September 1980 shall be deleted on official duty. The general power of attorney, the changed time limit for the validity of the power of attorneys in such a way as to determine the date of conclusion of the contract, rather than the submission of the proposal, following which the party does not have to attach a new power of attorney or to update the contract, appear to reduce the number of individual correct procedures, as well as the costs to the parties. Land Book data when changing an address or last name will be changed by automatism without the request of a party and without a solution. A procedure for the establishment and renewal of the land book shall be introduced, without new measurements being carried out, within 90 days in which the competent authority for the cadastre has to submit a cadastral operator for the implementation of the procedure for the establishment, renewal or addition of land books, avoiding additional costs of new measurements. The addition of the land book is simplified by no longer needing the minister to make a decision, no discussion for the composition of the cartridges is conducted, which contributes to increasing the efficiency of the procedure, and taking into account the increase in such procedures due to the registration of public water goods and seas. We're introducing an electronic guidance collection of credentials and an electronic file. Communication between the judicial authority and the administrative authority with the land registered courts will be conducted exclusively by electronic means. The obligation to scan input documents is prescribed, making assumptions for a complete digital archive. The special need for the adoption of this law, given that the Law on Land Books in 1997 has been amended and amended 10 times, is therefore considered to be necessary, the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135362	Three replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135363	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, Your Honor's Secretary of State for your presentation. You have, in fact, listed everything that has been passed by these amendments to the law. The truth is, in addition to the general powers, the harmonisation of library and cadastrian data, the strengthening of the catastra information system itself, this law, among other things, is passed because of the longevity of the procedures in the land-marked departments. The national programme actually, the reforms among other things we listed one max. We edit the country and it's actually the product of this law. I want to tell you something, let's say, what it looks like in reality because I'm convinced that even through the passing of this law you should think about that these things that are related to the land-marked cadastre are actually brakers of investment. And we're aware of that in many parts of example, I'll just say about Immotically. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135364	Thank you very much. Okay. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I welcome these changes because they should speed up some processes, but you know what I'm interested in? Has anyone made any account of how far Croatia has lost its investor, money and value in the last 25 years because the land books have not been solved and whose responsibility is this? So, the only accurate data we have in the land books is the ones that were introduced back in Austria-Hungarian. The biggest problems in both investment and human beings are the discrepancies of land books. And that's why I welcome these deadlines, but I'm interested in how much this has been lost in the last 30 years and some of the things that I'm seeing today as unimaginable is that we have grantine and cadastre inconsistencies, that one in the other, etc. and within what time do you expect that this situation could finally be resolved in Croatia so that we no longer have the problems we have faced in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135366	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135367	Thank you. Your Honor, if you've followed me well, that's why we're introducing completely new deadlines, and we're determining within which strict deadlines certain procedures must be completed. As far as the digitalization of the process is concerned, and this is a continuous system, I said that this law has been amended 10 times everything so far in order to resolve the process faster and how much money has all been spent part of the issue is related to 8 years of the SDP government, so ask your ministers and you can also ask here how much money you have a part of the question you have the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135368	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135369	Thank you very much, Mr. Salapic, I will spare you this term until the moment you were in government. Please tell me why, in the 2016 mandate, the number of cases has increased by more than a third not solved on land books. So leave yourselves to the examples of previous governments, even amnesty from the term of Ivo Sanader in which you were also very active here in the Croatian Parliament, I am interested in what happened in the last 3 years, which is why the number of outstanding cases on land books has increased by over 12,000, which is why it is not working, which is why the Ministry of Justice is not effective enough, does not allow this to be implemented in the way that we should, which is why we are constantly losing ourselves on the competitiveness scale of doing business to the world scale where we are precisely due to the failure to solve these problems in the past 2 years for over 20 places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135370	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135371	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Maras, thank you for saving me from political matters. The number of unsolved items 46 thousand 595 is a figure that has not changed in the last few years, it has been continuous. ... No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The average number of days to book in February 2019 was 22 days with us trying, so we introduced these deadlines into the new law to reduce that deadline by 22 days, we should be somewhere for 8 days. So the continuous process of developing the land library system, digitising the process, informing the system and all of what I said in the opening presentation serves exactly that which is to speed up and reduce the number of pending cases. It's a continuous process of both these governments and past governments. We can't especially in those Dalmatian areas, the areas of Makarska, Split and around overnight therefore introduce order by deadlines. We're trying and I hope we're on our way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135372	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What article, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The 238th article was injured because the minister said incorrectly...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135374	No, it can't be because in 238, it's only about what MPs are allowed to do. No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intruder Maras: Yes, but if.]] You have a warning, I'm sorry. [[Intruder Maras: If he's speaking wrong, he said he hasn't changed...]] You know very well that Article 238 speaks about what Please, as I speak, keep your mouth shut. [[/Intruder Maras: 2016. Thirty-two thousand objects...]] As I speak, stop! [[/Intruder Maras: 2015. Thirty-two thousand items.]] Article 238 speaks, I'll read you one more time, I'm giving you a warning, the one, not the other, the first. [[Intruder Maras: Good.]] "Advocacy during the debate must not..." and everything talks about MPs and not about representatives of the government. So 238 doesn't play a part. Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Bull. [[Intruder Maras: Fine but I have...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135375	Thank you very much. Secretary, the main point of development of the Republic of Croatia is the investment of land books so that we own one, owned by another legal or natural person and this is especially visible in the Dalmatian Zagora but probably throughout the Republic of Croatia, so there needs a large number of people. However, you instead of increasing the number of people and these capacities where the biggest problem is, where you need urgent action, you shut down the courts and there are the least people there. And now people, for example. from Sinj, who deals with this problem, the president of the court who is in Split from Dalmatia, he sends these people to deal with a whole other job and elsewhere, which means that you have no intention of solving this biggest problem because you do not have enough people mainly in areas where the land books have not been like that since Austria-Hungarian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135376	Thank you, too. Come in, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135377	Just a quick answer, thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Bulj, the employment of 70 people for these procedures is under way, so 70 people are being hired in the process because of this problem you said and all these deadlines that I have highlighted in the introduction, the information of the system especially in your area, throughout Dalmatia is therefore, we want to speed up new people, we have given certain deadlines that must be respected and I believe that we will solve the situation in a much faster time than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135378	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras asked for a word, a break, probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135379	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, since I couldn't say what I thought We ask that we consult on behalf of the club regarding the untrue information presented here by Mr. Secretary of State who everyone in Croatia knows, who are indisputable who say that the number of unsolved cases in 2015 was 32,000 and today I said 46. [[You're looking for a break?]] And now the question is how is it possible for the secretary of state to report to us here that this number of cases hasn't changed at all when we all know here if we compare two 46s and 32s that it's almost 40% of the cases no longer solved. And simply this kind of misinformation of Croatian citizens through the Parliament, but also our parliamentary representatives here must stop. I'm sorry that you didn't let me say it purely formally trying to stop me from doing Article 238, and now I have to say it like this. But Croatian citizens must know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia here through its secretary of state is not telling the truth. And unfortunately, that's why we've fallen 20 places on the doing business scale for the last three years. It's facts, it's data, it's easily verifiable. We are not looking forward to it, we would like to have a regulated country as well as other European countries for which we are fighting for Croatia to be a regulated country, land books to be arranged, so that people do not wait for months to type the address in the extracts of land books so that they do not wait for months not to correct one piece of information, that is what we ask of you, Mr. Secretary of State, and not to disinformation us here and speak completely wrong information. That's why we're looking for a break, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135380	Nice. Now the Rules of Procedure are respected, the form is satisfied, congratulating and giving you five minutes more breaks than usual, up to 10.00 hours break. Thank you. It's a date. 10 hours, we continue the debate, but sooner, I welcome the students and students of the school for fashion and design from Zagreb, thank you for being with us today, we are pleased, a nice applause... [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] A number of MPs. [[Applause.]] Does anyone want to take a word for the board? First we go to a club debate, first Mrs. Maria Jelkovac, from the HDZ Representatives Club, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135382	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Secretary of State with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. And here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will present a brief debate on this bill. This proposal for a new Law on Land Books is also part of a reform package of law in the justice system. The reform of land books and catastras has been carried out continuously, for a long time, with the aim of establishing, modern, efficient and transparent systems for the management of land books and catastras in electronic form. And that's what it does as part of a national programme called a regulated country. In view of the need to implement new information and technological solutions, the Law on Land Books has so far been amended 10 times and is therefore now proposed to implement the entire text of the new Law on Land Books, which would, in addition to so far, implement the necessary amendments. It should be pointed out that today all land books are conducted in electronic form, and the data is available via the Internet without compensation for all our citizens. Common Information System, so-called The ZIS has been introduced into all land-based departments and cadastrian offices, and the full scope of use since November 2016 the purpose of the common information system is to raise the level of legal certainty in the transport of real estate, simplifying the process, and the speed and quality of providing services to citizens. Through the app in... The store allows public notebooks, lawyers and the system of e-citizens to issue land library excerpts with the power of public documents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also possible to submit proposals for entry into the land book, by electronic means by public notebooks and lawyers, all contributing to the ultimate goal, which is electronic business in land books. Of course, this government, aware that the current state of affairs and the resolution of land library procedures, is not ideal at the moment, and therefore proposes this new law, and proposes that the country's library process be an emergency procedure, and also sets deadlines, which should lead to faster and more efficient treatment. In addition to these newspapers, proposed by this bill, the secretary of state listed all the other newspapers, so I would not repeat them, I would just point out that it is very important to introduce an electronically managed collection of documents and an electronic file. And communication between the judicial and administrative authorities with land-based library courts will also be conducted exclusively by electronic means in the future. The obligation to scan input documents is also prescribed, thus making assumptions for the digital archive. In addition to all these newspapers, the reasons for the adoption of this new legislative proposal are also the replacement of some archaic terms that we have had in the current regulation, and nomotechnical alignment with other laws and regulations. When the Law on Land Books was passed, the land book was conducted by hand, and an exception was prescribed in law for the electronic management of land books. With the development of the system in these last few years, it is slowly and gradually changing and the land book begins to be conducted in electronic form. This current proposal, in fact, states that it is no longer an exception, but it is conducted in electronic form. What I'd like to point out is, as far as comparing numbers, at this moment of unsolved objects, comparing that number in different time periods, it's not easy to compare 2 numerical numbers. Because when we compare this, we have to bear in mind, all the circumstances that lead to that number, and that is above all a different number of requests received, i.e. new items, which are submitted over a certain period of time, so that we do not have the same number of newly accepted applications in all periods, so that and then that number of pending cases depends on it at a certain point. In conclusion, what I want to say is that this new law will actually simplify the conduct of land books, and because of the schedules, there will be faster treatment and we see that the secretary of state has announced that the employment of new employees will also take place which will work on land-based procedures, which will certainly also contribute to a more efficient resolution of existing cases and new ones in the future. It will also lead to the harmonisation of land-based and cadastrian data which will lead to more secure and legal certainty in real estate management. This law does not require additional financial resources in the state budget as they will be implemented through the regular business of land and book courts. The HDZ Club will therefore support this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135383	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Jelkovac, I apologize for the distractions you had a little behind your back but you brought it out to the end, now came Mr. Orsat Milenić, who will speak on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135384	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So first I'll agree absolutely that it was time to go into making a new law, the changes have been numerous so far, 10 of them, I think 10, and it's good that a new draft was made. Also, I think that all the moves made in the law are welcome and that they should be welcomed and supported. In particular, this intensity not only in this but also in other laws to move to digital or electronic business is something that we all, wherever we can, need to support, and that is something that should eventually contribute to the change of thinking in general in the state administration, not only here but in the state as a whole, which is that more turns to the citizens and actually the citizen only initiates a certain procedure, that all the data available in the state administration in any segment are drawn by the state administration itself and that actually the citizen gets a certain solution. And that's something you should say hello anyway. In this regard, and what has been said about the scanning of documents and the possibility of extracts, excerpts, etc., and this is a good process that goes in its direction. Also, these changes in the proper process are something that is good, all that can lead to acceleration is a good thing and to the quality of solving. But what I think the law is going to make certain shifts, but I'm afraid here in 2, 3 or 4 years we're going to talk again and despite these good changes that are there, we're still not going to be satisfied with the situation. It's still going to happen to us, maybe the average trap, as far as it is now, 25 or 22 days, it might fall to 18 or 17 of those three or four years, but you'll still have courts to solve 400, 500 days and that'll be a problem. So if you're lucky to be where he solves you the same day, then you don't even feel it, then you actually get from the state what you wanted, you've given the request, he's solved you, you go home and that's it, but if you're not lucky and you have a real estate where the solution is 300, 400, 500 days, then you're in real trouble and I'm afraid there won't be that many changes. So the total will fall number, we'll always get statistics power and here we've been saying, the number of files, this, what, the number of files is not so relevant, is the speed of solving and of course the quality and speed. Even such an average, whether he's 40 or 20 days, he's not that relevant if you're not lucky and you belong to that category of citizens where he's 300 or 400 days or 500. That's the problem, and then we're unequal because someone in their court is going to solve in a day or two, we have a lot of examples like that, and they need to be pointed out and commended everywhere, but someone's going to get into a situation that takes 300 days and maybe his life depends on it, depending on his business, depending on how he handles certain things of life. And that's the real problem. Why am I saying that? So here it is prescribed that the land-booking process will be urgent and we can also welcome it, however, to sit here and draw out all the laws in which the procedure is urgent, we will get to the point that there is almost no law where there is no such thing. And if you tell the judges or here the references everything is urgent because every law that comes under any law, you have to deal with it urgently because we now solve everything so, not now you here, it has been solved before and you, and before you and will be dealt with and after you, in a way to come and say it is urgent, then nothing is urgent anymore. So until we impose sanctions for non-compliance with deadlines, concrete sanctions for concrete people, nothing will happen, all good wishes will remain, and you know that which is resolved with one note I didn't arrive because I don't know what it was and that's it. We'll still have those citizens who will have 300 days, even though it will be urgent and it has to be settled in 15 days, at 20, 30, it doesn't matter how much. And that's what our real problem is. So I support everything that goes but wherever we can and it's not just, it is also civil servants in part, so it doesn't just belong to your portfolio here, but we all have to be aware that we're partially hypocritical because now we're going to come to the citizens and we're saying that it's urgent and what's going to happen to the one who doesn't solve it in that time, nothing's going to happen because nothing's happening so far and there's almost no law where there's no emergency procedure. And I'm using this law now, but I'm pointing to a deeper problem, because when you have, I say an inflation of urgency, then nothing is urgent anymore. And I appeal wherever we can as advocates, take a step back and link that deadline to some sanction, but possibly with a reward, because, of course, there should be opportunities for people and encourage them, not just sanction them. So whoever solves it even faster to get something more on the payroll, absolutely, but until we're able to say, okay, you solved something in one day, you're going to have 500, 1000, 2000 kn bigger salary, and you're solving the same thing in 30 days, you're going to have 30 kn less. Until we're able to do this as a system, as a state, we'll do nothing. So this is going to bring some shifts and I'm sure it'll go towards your deadline, as you said, on average you said 10 days is my judgment, that here, here, in four years we'll be on some 17, 18, but I'd like you to be right, not me, but it doesn't matter. And it's going to be a good move. But he's not gonna get rid of these backlogs. Also, we're going to need new employment for this. I'll be the first to support it because I'm aware of how many people are missing. But we're not again, what are we pretending to be? In a state where there's no one around for a while, not to work in the state administration or anything. So there's no law that we haven't seen here and that we haven't all agreed together that people are missing. There's no law. This is objective, there really aren't any people, but there's no law to it. No one but no economy, no citizen, no community in the long run, will be able to support it through taxes. So it's not your problem again, I say, I'm telling this law now. That's our general problem. But let's also remember the law that will come after this and the one that will come before, not every one, but almost every one, will require some new employment because objectively we don't have people. We don't have people anywhere, and yet we have surpluses. And when you look at how much tax is paid and how much is set aside, there's a lot going on, and that's our problem. We haven't found anywhere and established a system of requalification within the state administration, where people are actually going somewhere where they don't need to go to something else, where we might put ourselves differently through the process of work, but simply this state administration is starting to become thinner, with fewer people, it's going to cost less. If there are fewer people, you can maybe pay them better, so they'll be happier, not going out, not going anywhere else. But this system where we're just going to put people, which I say, they need here, but someone else, too, is going to say for some other law they need, and we're all going to need it, and that's a constant problem. So, I'm saying, I'm talking here, on this law, but it's getting through us everywhere. It's also something I failed to spend in my term, and neither will you. Neither have they before, but I'm sure there won't be a solution to the problem of land books, until they really bring together land books and catastres and that's how it is. And I, as a lawyer, will always advocate that the catastre be afraid of being a technical service to land books, because land books regulate property issues, and the cadastre regulates something else, it should be an auxiliary service. But no government in this country has had the strength to do it, not one, and whatever we're talking about is a great thing, but as long as you have about one, one land, judicial and administrative procedure, it's pointless. They, they stand up to each other, very often, go by other rules and go, sometimes they just go in other directions and then the citizens, then the citizens look at us and say what I care about. I bought it and I want it introduced to me, why I have to think about where the cadastre is, where the land book is, where this is where it is, etc. What's it to me? They're right. And until we have the strength to do it, and the resistance is so great, the resistance is so great, I say, no government has been able to do it. This thing with the ZIS is a good idea, which we've spent before us, you spend it and you and she's gonna spend it still, she's so on the little door is introducing it, but she's not really the solution. It's not really a solution. And until this merger, whatever anyone is saying, we won't have a real shift, you won't have any legal certainty until the end, nor will we be able to say Croatia is a country where people don't care about it, because that's the point. The point is, you give some kind of amount of money to get real estate for, you put one piece of paper somewhere, you sign it, and you forget about it. That you don't have to worry about a disaster, or a land book, or how much of that, nothing. That it's over. It's a country, and other countries have it. And that's where we actually test the success of the individual Earth, and that's where we're completely failing, because we're all locked up in our own. Katastre's in his land book is in his own, everyone's dancing about it and it's there, there's no movement. So, I say, it's good to support these changes they will certainly make it easier for many, but there will be no solution to the problem. And I am sure that we will continue, you will receive complaints from citizens that they are not satisfied and that will be so in the Parliament and will invite us also why you haven't solved the matter. We haven't solved it because we haven't made a step more, and sooner or later, it's gonna have to be done and that's how it is for you. Not just for investment, not just for investment, but for that, but for being a country. An orderly country in the real sense, which means I'm not worried about these things as a citizen. If I knew what I read, it's really what I buy, what I bought and I paid for it, it's mine, and I don't have any more worries. Thank you very much. Anyway, we'll back it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135385	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135386	Thank you very much. One of the biggest problems with the development of the Republic of Croatia is in land books because on the same real estate we own a completely different legal and physical person, and owned by a total of three. So it's all so mixed up that from Autro-Hungarian in certain areas of that book they're not touched. Turns out she brought us more Austro-Hungarian than all the Governments of the Republic of Croatia. And we know when she was here means Austro-Hungarian. What reason am I saying this? I'm talking now, here, the region of the Dalmatian Fire, there's a colleague here who's a Dalmatian burner. You have real estate or land or old houses that, mainly houses and facilities that are now tourism potential, which are hard to solve precisely because of these problems. Just because of all the trouble we have in the land. There are 100 owners, 100 heirs, so it turns out that at one house of 100 squares we have 1,000 heirs, 1000 and so is the whole of the Dalmatian Zagora, the Dalmatian Zagora is also coastal, the Lika, and up in the Dalmatian Zagora, the hinterland, so Skradin and the entire area of the Zadar hinterland, most of it is not settled property legal relations, and we are too slow, we don't invest in these people. In people who should be doing this job, we have a huge public administration, but here where the key problem is, we don't have enough people. And just now, secretary, you told me we'd be seeing people, this, that. The management says there are people missing in the right places, and basically in the administration, we have extra people. So, it's just that people have spread out wrong, and people are the most important resource. Otherwise, this ministry of yours that has given justice, the minister is here, the majority has passed the Law of Courts, so for example, where the biggest problem is the land books, and we have the least people, that's the Dalmatian Zagora, which is bigger, it's just the Cetina landscape that's part without the Imothic, without the Imothic end, without the Vrgorje, the Dražnik, the Kninski, it's from Zrmanja to Neretva, we don't have any municipal court. And what's going on, and this few people that have, e.g. Here are the above in Sinj in the Cetina region, which is superficially larger than Međimurje County, there are also more inhabitants than Ličko-Senj County, we do not have a municipal court and that insufficient number of people, the judge who is the President of the Court in Split, are sending them to him the necessary places. He sends them, I don't know, to Brač and there to solve the problem, however, but he sends them elsewhere towards his needs and his feelings, not the needs of the citizens. So it waits two years for the donated real estate to be prescribed or a few years inheritance, and that's a huge problem, no investments. And also local and regional self-government, mostly local. Unclassified roads, too, very, should fight to enroll, and why am I saying that? I'm talking because the right of service or the right path of teleoperators, for example, HT has the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, we also suggested that it should not be the owner of the property but should be the one who manages the real estate, such as the unclassified road, in order for the teleoper to pay local owners, in which case local self-government to pay the right of service. It's not accepted. However, if the unclassified road is not registered, there goes the cable, the infrastructure of the teleoperator who otherwise got it muppets is whether, because our parents paid for it. I remember that my dad had to pay as much as the older ones, they had to pay 2, 3 thousand marks to get them to the house phone, they didn't get the connection, across our land, across city land. They didn't get shares or anything, he became the owner of telecoms, HT, Deutsche Telekom. And now the right to serve is still being paid. Because of these problems. And that's why Croatia's biggest teleoperator wins. HT has 42% gains, margins, and in the EU, with Serbia in Europe, 20%. Imagine how many hundreds of thousands of miles long you're supposed to pay for the right of service. But he's not paying. And it's going well for him and market it well, and you didn't want it, this government didn't want to accept this amendment that's been through everything, so e-Advisement is taken down, it's been said here to the prime minister, I've been asking questions to the prime minister that I haven't yet received an answer to, the only question I haven't received, which is why teleopers don't behave in Croatia as well as in other EU and European countries. The biggest problem is that we don't worry about the biggest problem from Austria-Hungarian, and that's what's holding the investment back. And these are the meanings of land books, and the key problem is the people doing the job. Well, it can't wait for me to think for two years that some donated real estate has to be booked or sold or the one that bought it, when that man's gonna invest, I don't think he's gonna wait three years to sign up for what he bought. And the biggest point of investment and investment in the Republic of Croatia is right here, this is the key to the story. I can say that for the Dalmatian Zagora because I know it is the most potent area in terms of tourism development. It's the Dalmatian Zagora right now. Preserved, there are old villages, stone houses, close to the sea, poor traffic connection, there should be more investment in Zagor, and verticals to sleep, however, this is a key problem, so we are in a position to even steal... from these old houses and drive from the village, disappears the entire hearth which should be an example of tourism development di invests in these villages with pools but people would like to invest, but because of this problem land books simply can't because the main problem in Croatia we have extra people in public administration and basically where they are not, where they should solve burning problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that means those people who work on land books. And that's why we have today on one particle, on one property owned by hundreds of people and hundreds... And it's simply impossible to invest or solve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we don't take ourselves seriously with these changes that you're giving, which will solve some kind of problem somewhere, but we don't solve the fundamental problem. The main problem is what and code means when you determine the seat of the courts, and that's where you're wrong. Because I'm really complaining that when they come to register their land books, when they come to Sinj that they're just these people, they work elsewhere because the president puts them someplace else. That's right in the Imot region, my colleague Babic knows it. That's a huge problem. If you're going to take yourself seriously here, if you're going to hire people here, however, you need to decentralisation these courts according to the needs of people and not according to the needs of certain policies or I don't know the President of the Court or who you don't already know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135387	Mrs. Maria Jelkovac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135388	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, I can therefore agree with you that there is a problem, but I cannot agree with you that we have done nothing from Austria. So at this point, if we're going to be realistic, we have certain areas in Croatia where there are really a little bigger problems and as far as land registrations are concerned, so the average number of days in which certain items are solved is different in certain areas, so for example. in the area of Makarska, the average number of days to be settled for the entry for 140 days and in Virovitica is settled in one day per inflow. So this shows that not all problems in all of Croatia are equal and it also says that it is not true that we have not made anything out of Austria. It is certain that there are problems, but that is why this bill also proposes certain concrete things to which these procedures should be speeded up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135389	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135390	... if the change is the municipal court in Sinj is opening in 1867. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Emperor Francis Joseph opened it as the centre of the Dalmatian Zagora in 2000, and 12 million kuna was invested in that building and now there is no longer a Dalmatian Zagora of its court. It's been done a lot. In 1867, there were four times as many people who worked on books, land books, and now we don't have people. And from Split man, the President of the Court determines where he will go in the area of his municipal court, which is huge, Split, Split area 1, Split 2. You know how much this area is. And I believe that it's being solved faster along the coast because there are greater interests, there's a maritime good, there's a proximity, even down there I hear and change in Makarska and natural, where it's forbidden in a natural landscape where even that construction is protected very quickly recorded by some of the mayors of the municipalities and so on. So there's been a change. But against the people and against the public good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135391	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135392	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bulj, true, what you say will not be simply because it is called the municipal court or the permanent service and the same people remain to increase or reduce the number of cases simply because it would be called the municipal court in Sinj or Imotskoma. Your colleague Jelkovac told you the problem, let's say, which was at the Municipal Court in Makarska, and that's why the courts joined together and gave you a partnership with Virovitica. What I agree with you and you know that this is not only a problem of the modern Croatian state but we have this problem in Dalmatia because of the large eviction of people there in the 1960s and before the Second World War where we actually have non-users, others listed as owners and actually when the real owner comes, the user is actually the third person who is not the owner of the land and the catastro. And that's the problem with the Dalmatian burn, and that's what we pointed out, and that's what I tried to say in my replica to the Secretary of State myself. So the municipal court or the permanent service remains the same people, it's a matter of solving the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135393	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135394	I would not agree that the same municipal and permanent service, I think that the Dalmatian Zagora area, I said how large the area is, only the Cetina region is bigger than the Međimurje County then you know how much the Dalmatian Zagora is from Krka to Neretva, that there is no municipal court, that everything is in Split and of course it is then. And I agree with you that it is also in this part that it is from Austria-Hungarian that even in the former Yugoslavia it was not done, either in the Kingdom, and that is what I'm saying that from Austria-Hungarian, nothing or almost nothing was done or any political interest was as it was in the coast. And of course the one from Split will judge, the President of the Court will send down where he is interested in solving the coast where it is much more interesting to solve these book problems. It is therefore very important and a great difference between the permanent service and the municipal court. And the Dalmatian Zagora didn't deserve not to have a municipal court it had since 1867, Emperor Francis Joseph opened, a foreigner and in Croatia the state is closed, as much as they hold on the Dalmatian Zagora, Sinj, the Cetina region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135395	Let's move on, Mrs Grozdana Peric, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135396	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. So it is very important and important that you have actually translated this law into a new law given the number of changes that have taken place over these years, and it will certainly be much simpler for all those who work by it to follow it further and implement the law properly. It is in the interest of all of us citizens that there is trust in land books and that the registration process is carried out in as short a time as possible. I come from a region where actually the registration process is long, over 100 days, so Dalmatia, Zadar and the surrounding area where, compared to the rest of Croatia, it is, north of Croatia about a week maximum, and here we hear what the colleague said, there are some cases where all this is happening in one day. It is good in this law that you have predicted that this deadline should actually be brought to 15 days, and I think that regardless of the criticisms that have been made will have a significant impact on making the enrolment as fast as possible and as high as possible. Trust in land books, as colleagues have already mentioned, is certainly something that can boost investment, and in my life I have faced cases where there have really been a lot of problems with the proof of ownership, about the launch of investments just for the sake of unclean land books but not just for them, but for the sake of them, but for the sake of the lack of urban plans, etc., so certain other laws have promoted it and allowed it to happen. I hope that this effort, too, will certainly, with the amendments to this law, improve the whole situation and lead to more quality of enrolment and stronger confidence. The very project that is listed here in the land-book reform, so the regulated countries are saying that we are all seeking to do just that and that the trust of the regulated country and the arrangement of our country will be as great as possible. It is also very important to further develop this information system, which has been in full effect since 2016, since November, and we know how much it means to all of us in reviewing, but in determining certain facts, we must not forget that as citizens, we also do not use enough E-Citizen systems that can make life easier for ourselves in many situations, I think that this information system must be much more practiced in our personal lives and also in our jobs. With the help of this particular E-Citizen, you will be able to apply for the entry into the land book, so each of us, and so far, only lawyers and notebooks could do so. It is also very important to mention that in law through these proper procedures that lasted over 3 years here you have limited that they occur for the longest period of 3 months. which is very good, and something else should be pointed out and that is this Article 162 where you have provided for a deadline for eradicating old mortgages that have been previously under official duty 25. 12. In 1958, he was now moved to 1. Nine. 1980. As we know, it was then that the Law on Ownership and Legal Relations entered into force and we hope that these old mortgages will then be cleared and we will not have any additional problems and we know that in view of the previous period, there have been many cases and problems that have been happening here. Likewise, the law introduces a time limit for the establishment of land books for those whose cadastrian municipality is the depositary of a document and 5 years is the deadline for those who have no land books at all. It is a quality and quality shift with that we must say that there must be one particular correlation and co-operation with the State Geodetic Administration and the use of EU funds to record the situation on the ground because we have cases that have occurred and that the implementation has not happened, and then those videos that have been made, it has been 2, 3 years and more and the book has not been implemented and then we practically have a new state of affairs that is then very confusing because it requires re-measures which are not good because of the duplication of jobs. So I think this is a major shift, and I hope with this law, we're actually going to use new opportunities to raise the quality of the land books to an even greater level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135397	First replica, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135398	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In your debate, colleagues Peric, you spoke about difficult urban planning precisely because of the unsettled land books, which could be the most discussed by the mayors, however, that is why certain municipalities and cities have set out to create a catalogue of real estate and rebuild land books. One such example in Varazdin County, the municipality of St. Elijah, which is 17 km2, 3500 inhabitants, and in collaboration with the State Geodetic Authority, is measuring the land. The Geodetic Administration carries a cost of 4 million, a municipality of 2. Now, after six years, 2,500 particles of 11,500 have been solved because they lack the number of people. So it's not enough to pass a good law but to provide both space and a sufficient number of people to deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135399	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135400	Well, yeah, that's what I mentioned, so there's a big problem with conformity and recording, but there's also an insufficient number of court advisors who couldn't carry out what was recorded, and that's why the whole process is stalled. This is what I hope in this number of employees that will then be found places and for those persons who will then be able to update the data of the administration that was recorded 2, 3 or more years ago and it is not good that this deadline is too long because the situation on the ground is changing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135401	Mrs. Irena Petrievcanin-Vuxanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135402	Thank you very much. ... replicas because I only want two things you mentioned, this system of e-citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm always about to keep keeping books as much as possible in electronic form but then you have a question that actually nothing has been done and when something is done, then the question is how many citizens are aware that it's done and wants to use it. You need to see this statistic, it's very devastating because people still want to physically take something to the counter because they are so much safer that this paper will be in the right hands, which is actually very sad and devastating that they are not aware of these possibilities. And secondly, we have catastrian municipalities, you mentioned that they don't have a land book anymore, and now this five-year-old deadline needs to be asked what's going to happen in those five years whether it's really going to be established or whether it's going to be a penalty if it doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135403	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135404	Yes, I think that this system of e-citizens is being used insufficiently, and in fact many people are not even referred to what and what data they can get and how they can speed up the whole process or review or review their own properties, the status that is all inscribed and also us as people who inherit also some real estate I think we are not enough to insist on solving our inherited properties, and then here, I think that we should educate the citizens to do what they do more and try to say through this system to control whether everything is right because it can happen that the wrong entry is so that it can be reacted in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135405	Mr. Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135406	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, you mentioned that this law will solve faster enrolment and that is true but that is where things are clean and where things are complicated. However, we have a whole series of situations on the ground where they will not be dealt with by this law and they are related, for example, to books. So often the state itself blocks and makes things difficult. I'll give you an example of when, you were talking about investments, for example. We have a series of particles along the coast that are located, so we come from the coastal regions where no border of maritime goods has been established today. And then DORH puts a blockade on that land and that land has been dead capital for decades. So the state doesn't solve these problems, people are powerless, they can't put it into operation so let's say that we should do something about it to boost investment. Unfortunately, it's in all coastal counties but most of all in Dalmatia. Let's just say the laws and the state can't make, so the bearers of these stories are the very county that should solve these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135407	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135408	That's right, the counties must be the ones who will determine the limits of maritime goods but I also hope that the new Maritime Good Law will speed up this situation where it will have to be defined because it's really been too long since it's been settled. And many buildings and surfaces have actually remained out of the possibility of any investment at all, which is not good because in this way we have actually stopped other activities that other than tourism can bring much, much useful and quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135409	And at the end of the day, Mrs. Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135410	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Peric, a colleague of Irena's has already set up a similar replica. In fact, it's about how informative we are and how much we use the system of e-citizens. And so far, we could have gotten a copy of the land book certified by me a year and a half ago that was introduced somewhere. An electronic enrolment has now been introduced. However, we must be aware of the situation and this is that not only our older citizens but also a large part of young people simply do not engage in the use of electronic services. But I'm going to refer to this one question, times, which is what you specifically think about our older population that is significant, and which is usually really physically going to land books offices, handing over documents, extracts or when extracts they have to pay a tax there and the others don't need it. Should this be either reduced or abolished regardless of what would be the opposite but in that direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135411	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135412	So here I think that at the level of the municipalities it might be possible to actually enable these citizens to come to the municipal offices that would then actually do it for free or to educate them how they do it. Because you really don't all use technical achievements and they don't know that you can do it, but here it might be good to actually educate people so that they can come to community offices or city offices and get it really in a very simple way and make it easier, and then maybe the same people through their families will be able to use it another way. So, I think the first degree would be some kind of communication with municipalities and cities, offices.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135413	Let's move on, Mr. Stevo Culey has an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135414	My colleagues and colleagues, write about the digitization of books, certainly the law is good, as is all the laws that were before him, and probably what will come after this law, all the laws are welcome to be in favour of the citizens and to their well-being. However, if the data, if justice, is not satisfied, if the evidence is void, all this falls into the water is the first and basic problem not beginning with all these changes, but long ago not to tell Grauss Kruger's cards and the rest not to mention it, but I will start with nationalisation, so I will read a few articles, it will be more understandable to those who are not referred to it. The former state nationalised their land, and the City of Zagreb then sold it for millions. On 18.3.2019. The search news shows the absurdity of the Croatian judiciary, which legally and legally acquired property over real estate, legal actions taken and thrown into the court game rotor. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the economic and social rights of art. The 48th guarantee is the right of ownership, apparently that the legal frameworks are a dead letter on paper, the Vrbanovic family in its statement to cameras called "the former state" nationalised their land, and the City of Zagreb then sold it for millions and are not the only ones whose property was kidnapped on the basis of judicial decisions. Judges are calling for a Nationalisation Act of 58th year, Epoha SFRY, judges are calling for solutions on nationalisation of real estate, seizure of real estate, implemented by the National Committees for the benefit of the SFRY State. The interesting thing about nationalisation is that if you can't hijack the property of some appropriate document signed by a dead person or a person who isn't the owner, but who sold someone else's property, then you reach for the document from the drawer and you claim by the judge, your property was nationalized and you couldn't buy it. For those who do not know, the National Committees are municipal bodies in every place, village, part of the city, which have taken property away from the real owners without their consent, and these solutions have passed the cadastre on to the entry into the ownership list in the category "special property regime, nationalised". Such a solution has been forwarded in the land-based section of the competent municipal court in order to include a ‘nationalised’ or in the form of a filling and Z-decision that the property is nationalised and is not subject to legal traffic. The subject-matter of the court, the judge knows, but the owner is not obliged to know, and he does not, as a rule, so it is very easy to manipulate the judge with an existing decision on the nationalisation of the property. What is not included in the land register for the owner of the property and there is no land-marking state as an external reflection of the legal status of the property. We will digitize, enter data that will be identical to the data that the National Committees of Mrumu Donja signed and sent for the insight and recording of the cadastres as a burden to the heirs of those to whom the property was taken away. Why can't we in Zagreb solve the cases of the tenant and the tenants? Because in ancient times, someone has prepared a very well - prepared terrain in which a legal way will at some point kidnap something that is not his. Every day at HS you come representatives of the Association to return robbed. The case of Renat Majnarić and his brother and their mother who never enjoyed the property that they own 100%, but today, they're still retreating through courts with a pile of documentation where it's obvious that they're the real owners of their property that they don't enjoy, because someone's adopted it, nationalized it, someone on the National Committee said so much about Majnarić's land and so many particles, so they're not able to visit them in one day and so it's taken away from them. If we're going to enter such data in a digital form that the universe will succeed in owning that property because it's at the end of its power, the mother died, he's sick, he's only ended up in psychiatry because he's looking for his own. How can Renato Majnaric and thousands of Majaric come into possession of what was taken from them? Vrbanovics and similar ones that the City of Zagreb or any city has given to enjoy a few squares slop, while their property has been sold to future investors in millions of denominations. It's hardly gonna make it right. Who will come from outside to invest in Croatia when no one can prove their property is 1/1? I personally for more than 17 years and my late father before me determined the property of 1/1. I just recently came into possession of an ordinary particle, almost no longer worth it, 1/1, just out of spite that I didn't want to leave it to the case. Listen to this. Free Dalmatia, launched the biggest lawsuit in Zadar's history. The Irish and the Belgians wanted to build a hotel. The city auctioned off other people's land, and investors are now asking for 154 million kuna in damages. The amount corresponds to a third of the budget. Will the city survive the dispute? And a bunch of it. Another Vrbanovici, another Majnarici, who is dragging around Croatian courts to prove that something is theirs, and what someone said wasn't theirs because he reached for the law that was in his hands, was stronger, he won. It says this, the land book was made based on graphic geodetic measurements, at 80% since 1855 on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and under the Finance Minister's regulation, the state of SHS of 17.11.1924, the graphic geodetic measurement was placed outside the force of use. The date of the outdated public documents drawn up on the basis of the graphic geodetic measurement in Croatia also means explicitly the date of 17.11.1924, the land book, as well as all real estate registers made in the graphic geodetic measurement, the flat cartographic projection, were put out of service, i.e. they are invalid for any legal or administrative action. All this is written by Bozidar Viduka, mag.ing. Geodesics and geoinformatics. I don't know if there's a bigger expert here than Mr. Viduke, and he says, zero land books are permanent and procedural interference in any legal or administrative business. Answer should be given to the question of what has been done and how much money has been spent on the geodetic measurement of the Republic of Croatia and the formation of land books. The geodetic measurement has lasted since 1994, Regulation, Order adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Class, etc., on 4.8.2004. Today in 2019, there are no dimensions, no land books, and where is the money? 5 billion euros was available for the Croatian state to edit land books and to real owners They come into their possession. [[Intruder: Mr. Culey's time.]] He'll never come.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135415	That's why Mr. Kirin will replicate you, and you'll have a chance to finish your thought later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135416	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, There are no land books, there are garters, there are caves, and each of them has its own function, a role in real estate transport. In view of the tradition of real estate traffic in our country, buying and selling land, certain particles have traditionally changed owners in agreement, but this is not included in the grantovnica, e.g. I own something, or I think I own a field, and I want to sell it to someone so they can run any kind of activity, but the real owner in the garter is listed by some cousin of mine who ended up somewhere in America. Which, in your opinion, with the concept of the file on the basis of that enrolment, and the particular problem is nationalization, enrolment in the grantovnica And is that the problem that's going to be solved? [[Time, Mr. Kirin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135417	Thank you. Mr. Culey's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135418	Too long, too big and too wide a question for one whose work is not real, but I can answer the question. The historical books of ownership, when examined, would determine that before real owners in a very strange way, in certain times people were left without their real property, and they never got a reason to take away the same, nor would they receive compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135419	Thank you. And now it's up to Mr. Gordan Maras to present his individual personal debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about such an important topic and the problems that our citizens face, one wonders why Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia do not have the same standards as they would have all normal, I would say developed countries, especially in the EU, which take care of how the system, the judiciary, the registrations of property, the protection of property as one of the fundamental rights that our citizens have, and when we see how it works, simply saddens the fact that it is not getting better and better, we do not cut deadlines but on the contrary, we have more and more unsolved cases every year. When we talk about whether someone would come to Croatia to invest or maybe live, unfortunately we have a situation where hundreds of thousands of people go to the annual level from the Republic of Croatia, and we would like to come from other European countries and maybe invest their knowledge, money and create together with us a more quality society and country, then it is normal that it is not possible to do so when someone who wants to buy a property or buy a certain apartment, a country, build a house, it takes an incomparably long time to do so in another European country. Which is why we don't have European standards in the Republic of Croatia when we're 6 years old. EU Member State? Why are these deadlines in the Republic of Croatia when we adopted various laws and directives that go towards speeding up certain processes, why is this not working? Why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia not function Europeanly, but function in a way that our people do not have elementary security so that they can dispose of their assets? Land books, I said, in the last 3 years, 14,000 cases higher, 40% unsolved, than that was, in the last 3 years, the relationship in 2015, 2018, 40%. How is this an efficient system solved, how is it possible that this is happening, how is it possible that people are waiting to enter another address in land books for months and even years? And then you wonder how to have them with their assets, how to invest, how to buy, how to invest, how to invest, how to invest, how to invest, how to invest, how to invest, how to invest, how to open jobs, when the simplest procedures that somewhere in EU countries last a few days, in the Republic of Croatia lasts a few years, and then it's clear that in the second plan we have everything that should be, investment, availability of assets, allowing people to do relatively safe business, all of which falls into another plan, and then we don't have to wonder why in the last two years we have a fall on the Doing Business scale, almost 20 seats, so that's something that doesn't need to surprise us and what the Republic of Croatia for safety, as far as investing, is at the start of the European rankings. If someone, here's a colleague before me mentioned some time ago, I don't like to look back much because those who stay trapped in the past, can't create a future and can't create new conditions and can't allow the Republic to be a modern European country, he talked about protecting property and he talked about some situations that happened more than 50 years ago, but on the other hand, I'm talking about another situation here. We in this HS have passed unfair laws against people who were neither guilty, nor obliged to be in the past system, in the past country, the state, to resolve the housing issue when it was socially everything, and now the government led by the HDZ and the CNS decided that these people were going on the road without compensation or compensation, and on the other hand, it did, I would say one historical injustice, which deserves to be analysed both in the Constitutional Court and in my opinion, has passed an unconstitutional law and damaged the protected tenants because of its petty interests, we have seen also the Secretary of State from the HNS who defended that law which was directly interested in it. So, we have very messy relationships and owned in the past, we have the injustices of new ones that have been brought to people, we have an inefficient judiciary that is unable to solve these cases in a quick and simple way, we have so many things to correct, unfortunately it's not happening, because if we had arranged, so it's one of, in my opinion, more quality demographic measures, organised justice, security, entries in land books, people might buy. Here's what my colleagues in MOST say about people moving out of Dalmatia or from like maybe someone would buy real estate and move in, but how when you can't solve property relations for months, even years. Unfortunately now that the elections in Lika have passed, no one goes to Lika anymore, there are no more ministers there, we see no one to worry about the property, about the investment, about the citizens like, it's over, it's for the HDZ clutch, the absolute story, they get there 30 and something %, the guy won't deal with it anymore. Now Mr. Kustic is working on becoming president of the CNS. So, it is now his main concern and that possibly the property of HNS here in the City of Zagreb has it, that a new national stadium is being built which you should again pay for the City of Zagreb and Zagreb, it will not go. Which is why the citizens of the City of Zagreb would pay the new national stadium to HNS and HDZ from their cut, there is no way. So on the other hand, I want to tell you, in a system of values that exists in the Republic of Croatia, it's normal that what works elsewhere in all European countries works, it's normal that the entries in land books last several years, it's normal that people don't trust the institutions that should be doing it, it's normal for the secretary of state here to tell us that the number of cases has decreased, and in fact it's actually increased by 40%. Imagine now just this scandal that our secretary of state is coming here to HS and says he's reduced or the same number of cases as he's been in recent years. So you just have to go in 2015 and look at 32,000 items, today 46 and compare how much more that is compared to that year, 40%. All this is saying that unfortunately this shift is not being monitored, that there are no things to do, that we now have a situation to move to the Catastre because the government has been unable to find an adequate space for the EU's precedent, so it is another one in a series of incredible Gafs of the government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic where there is a possibility to make it in Zagreb and could have done it in the last 3 years, end of the Velejima one quality congress centre, failed to realize EU funds and now move the cadastre to cover the space and make it in Croatia at the National University Library. So, on that side, what to expect and how to set up, I would like to, so on that side, I support everything that will solve the problem in a quality way and that will allow to speed up the process of enrolling in land books, which will ensure that our citizens can more freely dispose of their assets, but I cannot support such a government that has not shown by any of their actions that it is able to run anything except when it is done, and you will see very quickly on the case of the Oils and 3. Maja, where there is a very likely crystal clear real estate plan for the HDZ for Rijeka and Pula, where when you clean jobs from industry, from shipbuilding, as Prime Minister Plenkovic has now announced, apartments, hotels, real estate businesses, etc. will likely appear. Well, we can't base everything in Croatia on that. So for this, it is likely that all possible laws will be changed to make it possible as soon as possible, and jobs are not important and they do not want to be preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135421	Thank you. Mr. Sasa Djujic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135422	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, this law will improve the situation and certain deadlines are prescribed here, but you know what is another problem and why Croatia is not at EU level? It's incendiary. So we don't have sanctions, as it doesn't, this law doesn't prescribe it or solve it. As in the judiciary, there are no sanctions. So if someone does not carry out records in land books, some official who is in that place, or executive, who is in charge of making decisions, and he is in charge of that exchange, if I don't do nothing, then I can't do anything wrong and there are no sanctions, until then we won't solve the problem. If some judges have 300, 400 cases unsolved for 10, 15 years and do not respond, they will not be motivated to do so. Same thing with land books. We can prescribe here that someone has to deal with a case in 10, 15 days, but if there are no sanctions and if no one in the state service or from a position doesn't fly away because they don't do their job, then these things won't get fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135423	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135424	Thank you very much. What you said could be a special subject. We in Croatia have a tridivision of government, one of these branches of government is judicial authority, which is chosen indirectly through DSV and legislative authority, or HS, or to pass on, to tell the plastic people what it is about, means who is in power, and most of those who were in power during the 1990s, HDZ has cemented such a system as we have in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Why wouldn't the Republic of Croatia think in perspective that judges are also subject to citizen ratings? Citizen's evaluations. For what? We have examples of developed democracies in the world, where judges have to get a mandate for their work, that they assess whether and how they work. You know why? Because the HDZ isn't responding. They cemented, the Shakespeare and society of the '90s system as it is and they don't want to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135425	Time, time. - Mrs. Crescent. Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135426	Thank you. Comrade Maras, you said Croatia does not have the same standards as other EU member states. It has the same standards, but there's a difference in intensity. Other member states have different degrees of progress when we speak in the introduction of books in electronic form, and why is it different intensity? Because the goal, called Digital Single Market, is not achieved, is a single digital market, and this is one of the EU's objectives until 2021, and I would be most fortunate to say that we have achieved this goal and that all Member States have exactly the same level of equality of network information systems and also the electronic form of land books. At this point, we don't. You asked what would be further. Furthermore, we can expect only one step at a time to move closer to that goal, and I am sure that you will support this law because your colleague Orsat Milenić said that this is a law that goes one step ahead of this goal, so who we are already We should make it happen. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135427	Thank you. Mr. Maras, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135428	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Irena, so our problem in Croatia is that we have everything in principle and we have nothing. We have property security, the speed of change in the entry of land books, and in reality, this seems to be 10 times slower than in the EU. We have European prices, yes, unfortunately we have prices, but we have no European wages. We don't even have roughly a percentage of the European pension. My proposal, which here, will be safe alone, referred to in the procedure in HS, is why in Croatia for a full-time job would not be 75% of the average salary of pensions? People have worked 40 years and over or women 35 years and over. Why wouldn't they have a decent pension? They made those pensions. The problem is, ma'am. Irena, which in Croatia, unfortunately, we are in Europe, but we are not yet not near Europe. [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Maras.]] And that needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135429	Thank you very much. It is now Mr Boris Milosevic's individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. It is difficult at first not to immediately welcome such a bill which represents a major step forward in solving land-based cases. It is simply a big step forward because it is necessary to welcome every solution that goes towards a faster, simpler solution to land-based books. Because it's clear to all of us that today's debate here, that we have a garter, therefore, one record, that we have a cadastre, another record, and that these two records are not consistent, and often very often, unfortunately, we have a third state, a situation on the ground, that doesn't match what's written in both land books and in the catastro. It was also contributed by the former state, which did not pass any regulations concerning joint books, but therefore, the citizens themselves contributed, because tradition, transfer of ownership and all other real rights outside the library developed in our country. People sold, bought, donated, inherited, everything to avoid entering land books of various motives. Sometimes out of ignorance, sometimes out of the motive not to pay taxes and very often, we actually had such transfers through several generations and several hands without anything being recorded in the cataster or in the land books. It is good to have today, that all land books are run, electronically, digitally, that all citizens have access to the warmth of their home land books, so that they can see the state of some particles, who are the owners. However, it is also good that it is done to obtain a ZK excerpt, in all courts, regardless of which courts are really competent to exercise the rights of ownership of some particle. It is also good that the ZK extract can also be obtained in the public notebook, it is good that the ZK extract can also be obtained in the warmth of its home. I think that you should consider perhaps already in this law, for a second reading, to allow municipalities and cities to also issue ZK extracts, therefore, ownership documents, perhaps even other documents, so by force, that this has the power of public documents, because in some municipalities, therefore, some municipalities are all for their residents. For there is no likeness in the city of Jervenik or the court, neither is there a public notary. Many older and powerless in need of a ownership list are informationally illiterate. It would help a lot if we could go to the community and get that pepper if they needed it. In particular, this law lays down some deadlines, for example, for a period of one year, and those competent authorities must comply with the boundaries of the Catastrian municipalities. I hope that the promoter and the government is behind this deadline, that this deadline is realistic and feasible. It is good that this bill recognises that it is necessary to simplify the individual correct procedure, which is recognised in the peach as the easiest and cheapest procedure that can be entered into the right of ownership in land books, which is actually used the most in practice. I'm a little worried about these students, retroactively, I hope they'll pass the constitutional test, if anyone raises that question. What we also see in this proposal is that a 3-year deadline is being introduced for the establishment of land books in the catastrian municipalities in which the deposit of the document is kept... Land charts, and where this isn't going, these deadlines are very, very optimistic for me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have dealt with and dealt with some areas that do not have land books, such as the Gorski Kotar area, where there are 17 Catastrian municipalities, no land books, it is about Dubrava, Drežnica, Plaška, Saborska, Ogulin, Jasenko. All these land books were put out of force by a decision of the county court in '95. Citizens are still convinced that there was no need for this, that the data, which was included in these land books, were valid and usable. I ask the Ministry to consider this possibility, that it revitalises perhaps land books, which have been put out of force, whose data are useful, because otherwise the burden of obtaining all these evidence will fall on the citizens again. What I really doubted was exactly what I said, those pre-optimist deadlines, because when we passed the Property Act and the Land Book Act, which went into effect in '97. These laws have also set deadlines, that within 5 years, procedures will be launched, that the state will resolve its ownership, that citizens as off-book owners will initiate procedures and resolve their property. We know that these deadlines were now illusory and that they were too optimistic, these deadlines kept extending, but unfortunately, until today, that question has not been resolved. In view of the fact that only by the end of 2016 has the state entered over a million and 122 thousand particles, and therefore, the work has not yet been completed, where there are still citizens. And that's what I'm really worried about. I'm worried about citizens, especially in assisted areas, who have no more knowledge, no more life energy or enthusiasm to solve the issue of their ownership, and by this law we make it easier and simpler for procedures and procedures, but unfortunately, it won't be enough. If the state has failed to enroll in all the lands where it bids, that is, the right of ownership, what will become of the citizens? And I think that's the main message of my presentation, that we need to change the way we think, that we need to start taking care of the citizens, that we have to try to motivate the citizens to resolve their ownership rights issue. If the state provides subsidies for the purchase of electric cars, why not give subsidies, for the resolution of ownership rights? Let the criteria of economic, social, so that not all can get these subsidies but to create criteria and help citizens, to motivate citizens, to resolve the issue of their right of ownership, because if the state has not settled the issue of ownership in 20 years, the citizens will not be able to do so for another 100 years. I say this especially because those particles where the state has signed up as the owner, we haven't actually solved the real situation because the cataster is something else and I say in the field in reality something third. I'm helping a citizen to try to solve his own property issue on a bizarre subject where he's been trying to sign up as a owner for 12 years, and there's a problem with what's been written together with the state by a single unit of local self-government and where actually the dispute between the state and the local self-government makes it impossible for him as a real owner and the real owner who bought the country, to sign up as owner, and so I'm talking about someone who has a will, has motive, power, has the tenacity to deal with this issue and where all those citizens are actually who are not aware of it and who are demoted and who have no will or tenacity and who have no financial means to fight neither the state nor the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135431	- Mrs. Crescent. Goddess Macar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135432	Thank you very much. Well, here's fellow Milosevic, I like the very beginning of how you set things up, where you welcome this law, which is good, which he brings, but immediately detected the state as we do and the reason for such a state or disorder between land books and our catastra. That part would be set aside where you have also suggested that units of local self-government other than public notaries and EU citizens are included or be authorised to issue exactly these extracts from land books because if we take each issue, the paper itself is now paying 20 kuna, if they want to arrange something else that they need several of these extracts, that they need from the birth certificate and the death certificate if they want to solve their particle to be free of any burden to come onto them. I think the units of local self-government are the closest to them and precisely because of the mobility and disorientation of these books by citizens who cannot travel and are not e-written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135433	Replication response, Mr Boris Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135434	Dear fellow Members, I am pleased that you agree with my presentation and with my suggestions because as the dream cited the example of the municipality of Jervenik, so I can list numerous, numerous municipalities where the municipalities actually represent those citizens all where actually the first station the citizens address is the community because it is closest to them. We have abolished numerous courts, numerous services have been publicly abolished and removed from small municipalities. Citizens need documents, they often don't have bus lines and they have to spend both time and money on bus tickets or on taxis to come up with documents that can be written in information, but I say, I'm talking about older and powerless and very often to citizens who have small pensions and every cost to them is too much cost. If they gave authority to the municipalities, it would help them greatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135435	Time, time. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135436	Thank you very much, Mr. Radin. In your debate, you touched one big problem, which is that all people do not have the will or desire to deal with the courts, the slowness of the courts, the enrolment, and in particular do not have the will and desire of the people living in less developed parts of the Republic of Croatia, you mentioned yourself some of those parts of Croatia that have been very crowded with politicians and ministers over the past month and have now forgotten these parts. You won't see in Lika or in Jasenko that you mentioned now, not one minister or politician who should make it easier for people to solve the issue of property. So that's the problem, I totally agree with you that these people need and financial help to finally start coming back to those parts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135437	Mr. Milosevic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135438	Dear colleague Maras, I have mentioned this in my debate, I see that you agree largely with this, the fact is that citizens especially in rural areas, in assisted areas, have no will or strength and most often no money to address the issue of ownership of their land. It's rare that in these areas they own 1/1. If they want to start any production or something, they need to settle their ownership papers and they don't have any money for it, they're going to invest in that lot that's most valuable to them, and it's a plot they're going to invest all their savings in, and that's maybe about 10% of the land they own. What about that 90%, then? I'm saying, in this way of thinking and solving this problem, we're not gonna solve it for the next 100 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135439	And now we move on to the last individual debate, Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135440	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. I support this proposal of the Law on Land Books, which the Government has referred to in the ordinary procedure and, as the law puts it, the law was passed in '96, has since suffered 10 amendments, and therefore with this current amendment that introduces certain news, it has been necessary and it has been good because of the transparency of the law itself to enter into the adoption of a new law on land books. I would especially welcome the fact that over the last 14 years and 15 years, the number of pending cases has been reduced in the land-marked departments of municipal courts. In fact, the fact that it was over seems to me, as it says in itself, over 359, almost 360 thousand unsolved items, has been an obstacle to faster realisation of investments in Croatia, as it is known that the unsettled land-marked state is an obstacle to the existence of acts for citizens, so it certainly made it more difficult for any development, serious development in the case of construction, both private and facilities which serve for production and other activities, i.e. municipal and social infrastructures. As explained, there are now about 46 thousand unsolved items, but what is important is the number of days needed to solve these unsolved items, so today it is 25 days, and I know that then, about 800 years ago, it was needed to solve a particular procedure in the garter, or land book. So, this should be welcomed because this fact that you can solve very quickly in the municipal court case of a booking within only 10 days as it is the intensity of this government... in this respect, this law further contributes to the acceleration of the case-by-case resolution in the land book because it simplifies the procedure, which is very important, so I don't doubt that simplifying the procedure with digitisation, with the harmonisation of the catasters and the land books will achieve faster resolution of these cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I particularly welcome, is that this law gives certain deadlines for those cadastrian municipalities that have only deposit of IDs or land charts, where the term of 3 years is defined, that is one period that is optimistic. Is this going to be possible, I'm not sure, but it's good that these deadlines are set and they are being insisted on, and especially the deadlines that it is, it seems to me that Mr. Milosevic mentioned, and it's been said that five years prescribed by this law to form a land book where the land book does not exist. In that sense, I would like, then, to link these deadlines to the deadlines that we discussed under the State Measurement Act and the real estate catalogue that we adopted in HS in December 2018, namely, we have already witnessed, that the most important or the two most important records that are kept in Croatia are real estate records, that are then carried out by the State Geodetic Administration, through the Real Estate Catastrophe, and the one that is conducted in the Ministry of Justice through municipal courts in land books, in land-based departments, in Croatia is not regulated and that there is one discrepancy between the catasters and the land-book, but also a major discrepancy between the terrain, land-towers, land-towers and the land-book itself. When I mentioned the Law on Real Estate Cataster and State Measurement of Real Estate, then in this law we brought some news, changes that would allow this law to really form a new land book, where it was not formed in catastrian municipalities where it was not formed. Because we know that one of the biggest obstacles to the rapid restoration of the catastra and the rapid restoration of the land's book, it was the process of exposure in those catastrian municipalities where it works and implements the state measure. There are some 3.5 thousand catastrian municipalities in Croatia, of which, in the last 30 years or 29 years of the Croatian state, there have already been a total of 414 catastrian municipalities, but only 100 catastrian municipalities have completed both the cadastre and the land book where, then, these deadlines that you have stated by this law will not be a problem to implement, or to do. The problem occurs where it has not been implemented, where it has not been done, and therefore the decision to simplify the process of exposure, where the presentation is not done by the commissions that have been done by both the cadastra and the judges of the land registers, but will be made by the authorising officer of the measurement, and I hope that it will allow for the rapid production and restoration of the cadasar and the land books, and thus these provisions that you yourself have stated, which is that the next 5 years really form a land book there in those units of local self-government, and part of them is mentioned by fellow Milosevic, who will then be able to meet this law, then these demanding deadlines that I have stated. At the time when I was talking about the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, I suggested that the Government come out as soon as possible with a plan for the restoration of the Catastrian and Land Book with a plan that implies a new cadastrian measurement in the Republic of Croatia, then we listed which catastrian municipalities and what areas in Croatia should have their priority. These are primarily those areas in which the first half of the 19th century cadastrian measurement was not made, and this is almost the whole of Dalmatia and the coast and a large part of Croatia, so that the priority is to select those areas where the cadastre and the earth's book will be the ones that are the most desolate, which are the most unsustainable, where the catastre is almost fully aligned with the terrain, and then the cataract with the land book. In a conversation with the director of the state geodetic administration, I heard and received information that it is now moving very quickly and that the fact that we enter into this new state measure will enable the production of a new cadastrian and new land books, and will then encourage investments, will lead to larger funds for local self-government units, because on a brief analysis that has been made, those cadastrian municipalities in which a new measure, a new cadastre and a new land book has been made, thereby increasing the income from a municipal fee about 30-40%, and not to say how much the value of the land is increased when you have a particle in your possession in catastrian and land-based terms arranged, updated, updated and when those two records match, it is automatically increasing the value of its property. The second thing I wanted to point out in particular was that we, by virtue of the Law on Property and other real rights, had laid down the principle of trust in the land book for all private particles. But for former social property that was then changed in the process... whether they belong to units of local self-government or to a third legal or natural person, this principle of trust in the land book has been moved until 1 January 2017, since then, in the Republic of Croatia, what is required of us and in the EU accession process, this principle has also been established since 1 January 2017. This principle applies. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question arises how much we can put faith in this principle where we do not have land books in place, therefore, and for this reason it is good that the deadlines set by this law are truly and realized. It is good that the date for those particles on which there is a mortgage has been moved, it is very good that it has been settled because there have indeed been some bizarre situations where mortgages are still inscribed, and there are virtually no longer tens of years. Thus, with this proposal, the Government here seems to have taken a good step in order to build trust in the land book, for example. on particles [[Intruder: Time]] which are burdened with mortgages. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135441	Thank you, too. Mr. Maras replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135442	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. Do you, perhaps, have an opinion, and perhaps the answer, which has escalated exactly the case resolution in land books over the past 2-3 years? So when we look at the data of 32,000 unsolved cases in 2015, and now 46, what do you think happened? Is there a problem with the judiciary? Is there a problem with the Justice Department? Is it possible that the issue is not the work of individual institutions because people are desperate? So it's tens of thousands of our citizens who fail to solve their problems, the most basic problems, the registration of the address, the registration of the OIB, the change of ownership. After they split the legacy, there's nothing I can do, nothing I can do, what made it happen?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135443	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, we're talking about the Land Book Act here. I cited that out of 359 000 unsolved cases in 2004, the number of pending cases is still large today, but it is reduced and amounts to about 46,000 cases. What's more important is that a citizen who submits a request to change the state of the land book sometimes waits for 800 days, today it's been reduced to 25 days, I believe this law will bring it down to those 10 days that are really acceptable, because a lot of news has been introduced in the implementation of the land-book, which has made it available, which is certain reforms in the justice system, so when it comes to the land-book. I know it was an intense period, somewhere out there in 2007. 2008, 2009, 2010, and to this day in which special attention has been paid to solving Immigrant legal relations. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135445	And Mrs. McNally. Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135446	Thank you very much, so since the individual debate from colleagues Bačić is the last, then somehow we can also sum up that by listening to all these remarks we haven't actually heard any negative criticism about this law, but what we've heard, and in part we can agree on, and that shows practice, these are more dilemmas whether these deadlines of three, five years or 15 days for regular procedures, for example. when it comes to registering property rights to be respected, it is something that we can agree on and possibly set up as some kind of dilemma, and there is not a single negative remark in the sense that this law does not bring in anything positive, a newspaper or that citizens will get from this law some kind of penalty and something that is not in their interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135447	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Irena, what we can sublime when it comes to this law, that we have a good law that keeps bad records, so this is a great law, it is well-assembled, but the matter it processes is uncoordinated, unsupervised and it is a fundamental problem and a catastra of land and land books in the Republic. Until we carry out the state measure on the rest of the Catastrian municipalities that are not still in the measurement process, we will have a good law, but we will have problems with solving land-based subjects and these deadlines set are indeed, I say, optimistic, but I believe in them more than that which, I say, one other law that allows this law to accelerate these all processes so that they could actually be faster enrolled in the catastran and in the land-book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135449	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. And we'll be voting in a proverbial manner when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135450	Proposal for a Law on Land Books, first reading, P.Z. No. 603, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, a proposal for a Law on Land Books, second, will be adopted, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 92 for and 7 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135451	Report, next item: - Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2017 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2017. Transporters: Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency Reports submitted by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency pursuant to Article 33. Law on energy regulation. The government delivered an opinion, the discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economic Affairs. With us is Mrs Sonja Tomasic Škevin, deputy president of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, who has already been on the run and then I give her my word. Here you go. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And, I'm sorry, we have two, Mr. Bull and who else in the back? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, well, Mr. Lovrinović too. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135452	Thank you very much. I'm looking on behalf of the MOST Club to consult because HERA as a network manager has a space to cut electricity prices. You have space but you do not oversee the investment plans you approve because you spend that money on sponsorship and sponsorship which has nothing to do with investment and development. Energy must be in the service of citizens and entrepreneurs, not party machinery and interest. Our entrepreneurs pay electricity as Austrian or French entrepreneurs. While MOST was in government there was no collection of electricity and gas and... Take care of people then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now you're even going to change the price of electricity, electricity 4x a year. And as of Monday, the gas prices are going up 7% and the most expensive will be in Osijek and Slavonia, in line with the project Slavonia. You're just raising money and prices for your election propaganda, you're packing it into various Mercedes and you're picking up electricity for the citizens and you're raising the charge. Are you aware of the agency's gentlemen and we parliamentary representatives how the regulator manages to endanger our national security, with one-off financial obligations under the item of renewable energy sources in the coming years that will benefit only private, foreign capital. And MOST proposed instead of wind power plants a billion and a half kuna from our citizens' pockets that goes subsidies to foreigners that we have microsolares that money for our poor families. You don't give it to us and you don't want it to be discussed. The only thing you're discussing and what you're protecting is your party bag, not the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135453	Time Mr. Bull, time, time. Now, wait a minute, wait a minute, sir, please sit down, Mr. Pernar. We'll do it in a row. Mr. Lovrinović, you asked for a replica of my presentation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135454	I remember how the lady who should report approached the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135455	And she didn't even start talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135456	No, no, I've been waiting for him to come and I've already picked up on it, I'm, you know, so I picked up the line first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135457	All right, all right, all right, so we'll keep track, OK, all right, all right. Mr. Pernar, are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135458	I would also ask for a break to point out the problem that HEP achieves enormous profits and, despite its enormous profits, the price of electricity is accumulated on the one hand and on the other hand the state has entered an economically harmful project of building LNG terminals, a project that will cost dearly and all to buy more expensive gas than cheaper gas. And even HEP decided to buy more expensive gas than cheaper and, of course, it ultimately resulted in the purchase of electricity prices and will collect gas. So you were talking about how by expanding, or by increasing the number of directions that the gas comes from, it's going to make the gas cheap. However, the fact is that you didn't have enough tenants for that terminal because no one in their right mind wants to buy something that is more expensive but still, as a state, you forced state-owned companies to buy more expensive gas and, consequently, to increase prices for citizens. And you, when you increase your pensions by 5 kuna, 10 kuna or 20 kuna, then you wave at all the voices about it, brag about it, do the malts from Andrej Plenkovic, and now when you collect from today and electricity and gas, now I don't see that you're making noises all over the country and everything you give to the citizens of each kuna you'll take from them two or three. There is nothing the HDZ will give to the Croatian people that will not later take away and more than it has given. HDZ leads the policy of destruction, Croatia is leading a policy that will impoverish Croatia and a policy that is devastating, meaning from the construction of LNG terminals to the collection of electricity, to the construction of a dump of radioactive waste in the Trgovina Gora, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135459	Thank you. I'll see you at exactly 12 o'clock. [[It's 11:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.02 HOURS]] So Mrs. Tomasic Škevin, deputy president of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, will give us an opinion on the summary of the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135461	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I am pleased to present to you the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2017 and the report on the implementation of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2017. As the rhythm of the submission of such a report is prescribed by law, we will be in 3 months. I would also like to recall that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA, an independent and independent body with public powers, is the HERA, a regulatory agency with a thorough task of implementing the regulation of energy activities in the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the obligations prescribed by the relevant national legislative framework. There are three other regulatory agencies in Croatia with HERA, such as AZTN, HACOM and HANFA. At the same time, HERA is one of the 28 national regulators of EU Member States whose rights and obligations, both national and European, arise from the principles and basic acts of European energy legislation. The fundamental principle of action of each national energy regulator is legally guaranteed in the EU the independence of business and decision-making, both in relation to the executive power and the interests of economic operators in the energy sector, which does not question close cooperation with other relevant national authorities, nor the government, which adopts general policy guidelines. Of course, along with the guaranteed independence of regulators, the other side of the balance, which allows for the fulfilment of the energy regulation mission, is the legal regulation of responsibility and transparency of work. It is precisely the obligation to submit a report on the work of the national parliament that is one of the backbones of the regulatory responsibility system. Our mission is to regulate energy activities, i.e. covering those components of the market, which are considered natural monopolies, which means, in electricity, are all wires, and in gas all pipes. HERA in the Republic of Croatia, has an obligation to set prices for certain very small, public services, as long as they do not start to rely on the market, but about that, I will do a little later. The task of regulators is also to take care of energy customers, and this task is carried out by HERA by resolving the complaints of customers, particularly those relating to network access or operator operation. But what HERA is trying to do is also help customers to understand the market better, there we still have to do a lot of work, and what we don't do in favor of is a great dynamic of changing regulations. A large number of regulations are changed very quickly, most of which are due to compliance with EU rules. The structure of this report is broadly consistent with the Council's latest recommendations to European energy regulators, and content and equipment, the report seeks to follow good practice of EU regulatory reporting, and the ACR Energy Regulators Cooperation Agency. In addition, the report has a specific default structure, and on the other hand, since we haven't had statistical energy checks in Croatia for years, we tried to put in the report a number of data, in order to de facto fill that gap, although it is not in the best sense the task of regulators. But this is the only document showing such data from the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the report contains a whole range of data, numerical and graphic displays, as well as summary assessments of the situation with observations and regulatory recommendations related to the development of the energy market, electricity and gas. And their integration with EU energy markets, i.e. their regulation in accordance with the rules of the EU's single internal energy market. It reports that the review of the enforcement of the legislation, the obligations of the regulatory body, the results and statistical indicators of business, regulated energy entities, the Croatian energy sector. I wish to give you a brief review of the situation by individual sectors in the section concerning the activities of regulators. I will start with electricity, which in future plans of Croatia, but also of the EU, gains even more by accepting so-called. ... i.e. clean energy packages and its implementation in all EU Member States, as well as the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basis of this whole idea is a growing and larger number of producers using renewable energy sources, and of course there is energy efficiency as a very important element. Let's move forward, the electricity sector in the Republic of Croatia was stable in 2017, i.e. the security of customer supply was not compromised. Total consumption was 18.2 teravacats, which is approximately 3% increase compared to 2016. The installed or more precisely connected power of all power plants on the territory of the Republic of Croatia was 4911 megawatts which is 111 megawatts more than in 2016. So we see here a constant trend of growth primarily due to the integration of new power plants that are in the system of fostering renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration. Electricity infrastructure in Croatia is fully developed, even in European contexts. Our connection with our neighbours is very good and what can be noticed is also in the amount of energy that is... Over a high-voltage power grid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a good connection is a guarantee of safety in the event of disturbances on the Croatian market. And because of this solid connection in 2018, an extremely significant event took place, which is the integration of the market for a day in advance, so on. ... The market with a European multi-regional market project containing, in fact, I would say most of the electricity market in the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This happened across the Croatian-Slovenian border, i.e. the Croatian electricity stock exchange CROPEX works in the so-called market bowling mode connected to the electricity exchange in Slovenia. The project was actively attended by Croatian transmission system operators and LS Slovenian transmission system operator with the support of national regulatory agencies from Slovenia and Croatia. As regards the basic indicators of the electricity sector in 2017, we can point out that the largest part of the total electricity consumption is covered... from power plants located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, 59% while the rest is covered by physical net imports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In doing so, about 3% of these, 41% of which is net imports, 40% of these net imports go to... which comes from the Krska Nuclear Power Plant, which is owned by HEP 50%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But according to EU rules, this is considered an import of electricity. The highest share of electricity production in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in 2017 was around 46%, this share annually varies depending on the hydrological opportunities in the Republic of Croatia, followed by thermal power plants 37, wind power plants 11%, and other renewable sources 5%. The regulator shall monitor the development and dynamics of infrastructure building through approval or consent to plans for the development of the Croatian transmission system operator and HEP distribution system operator. Approval plans one of the... a tool that can affect the ambitions of infrastructure companies in the energy sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we are talking about the electricity market, then we must stress that there is still HEP, i.e. society within the HEP group in the dominant position. On small sales, i.e. on the household market, it is 91% and on the business market 83%. From the significant activities in the electricity sector, we still want to distinguish that HEP distribution system operator has singled out the supply activity in a special company since 1 January 2017, HEP Elektro. This company provides two public services, a universal supplier for households only and a guaranteed supplier. As HERA determines only network components in the price of electricity, what else it determines is the electricity price in the guaranteed supply. The law lays down that the right to guaranteed electricity supply has exclusive entrepreneurship in the event of their supplier leaving the market. The guaranteed supply is a safeguard mechanism so that such a customer does not lose power supply. HERA adopted a document of cost analysis and of the introduction of advanced measuring devices and their networking systems, based on the Energy Act, in 2017, following all the necessary opinions as well as opinions of the 4 Technical Faculty in the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of the analysis provided, the plan and programme of measures for the introduction of advanced measurement devices for final customers should be established. The most important possible benefits of introducing advanced measuring devices can be... in the next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The distance reading of the measurement data, the reduction of technical losses, the abandonment of the billing system, are also the preconditions for the management of consumption and the instantaneous availability of information on the operator of the power outage system. Or to emphasize what's most important in such a system we have monthly readings of electricity consumption and customers pay really spent. Since electricity and gas are part of what is called the EU's single internal energy market, the next area I'm going to talk to you about is the gas sector. Thus, in the gas sector, the situation was also stable in 2017, in the gas sector as well as in the electricity sector, an increase in consumption was observed. In the gas sector, this increase started in 2015 and in 2017 the increase was 15.4% compared to 2016. The security of gas supply is good, there are more supply routes and from domestic production into the transport system 11 thousand 193. million kilowatts of natural gas, and 34.6% of total transport quantities, which is 3% more than in 2016 and total transport quantities are 17% higher. We don't have one dominant player on the gas market, there's a situation different from the electricity market. Here we have the first two biggest players sharing 60% of the market and the remaining 40% of the wholesale market has been allocated 11 gas suppliers. Where the electricity and gas sectors differ, prices for households used by public supply services are regulated in the gas sector. The latest amendments to the Gas Market Act by 31 March 2021, thus abolishing the wholesaler institute. While the price for households in electricity has been fully deregulated since the end of 2015. Therefore, the price for households is not determined by the regulatory agency but by the price of suppliers offering a service for electricity supply in households. In most parts it is a HEP Elektra universal supplier but there are other suppliers who offer such a service although their number has been decreasing lately. However, we return to gas, in December 2016 and in March 2017 HERA made a decision on the final gas prices for the household for the period from 1 January to 31 March 2017 and for the period 1 April to 31 December 2017 respectively. Based on those decisions, the average final price of gas for the household in 2017. It was lower by 11% compared to 2016. The balancing of the transport system is in line with the provisions of the Commission Regulation on the establishment of network rules and gas balances in transport networks, and the new balancing rules have been incorporated into sub-legislative acts brought by the gas market operator, the transport system operator and the gas storage system operator which entered into force on 1 April 2017. In order to adapt to market needs, as well as new balancing rules, the gas storage system operator has enabled users of the gas storage system to make more renominations to use the storage capacity in the gas day, change in the nomination direction, and change in the storage cycle. Average prices for both household and gas and electricity in 2017 They were below the EU average, while the prices of entrepreneurs were slightly above the electricity average and for gas something below. So we can say that both natural gas and electricity are quite solid infrastructured. The relevant laws and regulations are almost entirely mutually harmonised, and what is waiting for us all in this branch is the implementation of rules for EU and gas networks and electricity, respectively... which are regulations directly applicable to entities in the Republic of Croatia from the date of their entry into force in the EU. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's not all, in the EU are in the final phase of bringing four acts within the framework of... clean energy packages, while the first 4 were adopted during 2018. Transposition and implementation of this package is one very demanding task that stands before all of us, it will require the adaptation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia to the directives adopted in that package or to the direct application of the regulation adopted in that package, which will potentially require amendments and the completion of sublegal regulations in the Republic of Croatia or at least redefining certain procedures. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here we are talking about 4 Directives and 4 regulations. The objectives of the European Energy Union are primarily energy security, solidarity, trust and a very ambitious climate policy, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40%. The EU energy sector is undergoing a significant transformation that primarily characterizes decentralised markets with much more players, participants in them, a very large share of renewable energy, and better connected energy systems. And when it comes to those parts... For which flexibility, competitiveness, and customer-oriented markets are ensured, we can mention 3 topics that are a rapid change in suppliers, demands that up to 2026. Such a system shall be established to allow the supplier to change within 24 hours. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The buyer must be at the centre of the energy system, i.e. the purchasers of citizens become active market participants either as customers of the so-called purchasers. transducers, either through association in the energy community. It is also clear the role of the distribution system operator where the limits between its basic tasks and other market services which it should not deal with are set. Here we can also highlight the provisions that define the data to be made available to customers on the account, and there is also a topic of protecting the entire energy sector from cyber attacks on which more and more weight will grow in the coming periods. In addition to that so far, there is also a part of the energy sector dealing with renewable energy sources to a highly efficient cogeneration. In this segment of the energy sector, HERA plays a limited role in issuing a solution to obtaining the status of a privileged producer, as well as in checking the annual efficiency of cogeneration plants. Total electricity produced from power plants which are in the system of stimulating electricity generation from renewable energy sources are more efficient cogeneration in 2017. It was 2.3... or 12.6% of total electricity consumption. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since 2007 by 2017, therefore, during the 10-year period HERA has issued 329 solutions on obtaining the status of the privileged producer of the total amount of power of 1283 megawatts. With gas and electricity, the third segment dealing with HERA is heat energy. 2013 A law on the heat market has been adopted on which to some extent, by copying electricity and gas, the introduction of a market component into the sector. At the end of 2017. In the Republic of Croatia, there are 21 energy entities that have carried out the energy supply activity of thermal energy, and in the register of heat customers, 36 customers were eventually enrolled, 22 of which were active, with the activity of the consumer of thermal energy in most final customers still being carried out by heat suppliers. HERA shall determine the amounts of tariff items for the production of heat and the amounts of tariff items for the distribution of heat only for central heat systems. The final price in these central heat systems contains other than regulated parts and market components, remuneration for the customer's activity, and compensation for the supply of thermal energy. In this sector, there are still independent heat systems and closed heat systems which freely establish all prices in accordance with market conditions. This report also includes a chapter on oil and petroleum products, which is the biofuels chapter. However, in these segments HERA's role is minor, now it would not speak of them specifically, it is mainly about granting or extending permits to carry out energy activities. There are also reports within the chapter of electricity dealing with energy efficiency, which will be more and more words in the future, which will also be dealt with by HERA, and the effects of implementing energy efficiency are still too early to talk about, as sublegal regulations are waiting to describe the obligations of energy subjects in detail. I'm sure in the future, energy efficiency will get its chapter in our report. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to, once you look closely at our report, direct HERA any questions about him, and we will answer any questions we have raised and, finally, please accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135462	Thank you, too. Mr. Lovrinović has long asked for a replica, so now we give him our word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Tomasic, to note the following, this report does not talk about what is most important, about the energy security of the Republic of Croatia that you have never submitted that report. Comrade, why you approved and gave in to the pressure of the Ministry of Energy to reduce the tariff on electricity transmission, power grids, HEP and thus damaged, you took part in the damage to HEP at an annual level of 300 million kuna. This company will have less revenue than 300 million kuna, if you help it to weaken financially and for some time privatise on the scene. Your mandates in HERA last the longest in Europe, 7 years instead of 5 years, have only the Supreme Court judges in America. Why don't you put yourself in the power plant of Dubrovnik? It's already lost 20 million euros, according to my information, nothing seems. So we're energy-insecure, this report isn't worth anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135464	Thank you very much. Another replica is requested by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135465	Thank you very much. The advantageous price for renewable energy sources means the percentages that the EU has imposed on us, rather than strengthening the security of national security, energy security. It was encouraged by foreign investors, where a billion-and-a-half a year, with the blessing of HERA, of course, a billion-and-a-half kunas of our citizens and citizens' salaries and this goes at a expensive price, and it goes essentially into the pockets of foreign investors, who own wind parks. While at the same time, for the peacemakers, the distinguished lady, HERA did not give people, who met all the conditions, had all the permits from both HEP and all, the microsolares on their private facilities, the houses, you didn't give. You didn't give the microsolars, to the locals, and you gave the foreign investors billions in your pocket that a year... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135466	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Chicotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135467	Dear Deputys, you have pointed out yourself in your statement that HERA is an independent and independent body. In fact, HERA is like a network regulator, and there's room there to cut electricity prices, and you know it very well. What I would like, is for you, as a competent regulatory agency, to start publishing the investment plans for all those you oversee and on the basis of which the electricity price is formed. Because if it were visible, then it would be visible that they, in fact, which you form the price of, are not these investment plans that invest in development, but also in sponsorship and sponsorship. And you keep it quiet, so you're not alone, you're not an independent body. Thank you. Please respond in the final presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135468	Thank you. Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Tomasic, I know that this, that you cannot speak, therefore, past the government's decision and that you are not an independent body. Here's the Microsolars Act, I don't know how familiar you are with the fact that Maribor has more microsolars than Croatia. That that law is standing in a drawer. Today we learned that the price of electricity, for businesses and industry, is the same as in Austria and France. How do you think some people would think that our economy could be even a competitor with that kind of power? And according to the new rule, HERA will be able to determine four times a year, i.e. will be able to change the price four times. So far, it's been two, and is this an introduction of any new price uncertainty, given that you will now be able to do four times a year?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135470	Thank you. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135471	Thank you very much. I think this report is good, because like every report, it shows the state it is. So he can't be different, because that's, that's the situation in Croatia. So, but I think it is too late, as it is, and I am glad that you mentioned it yourself in your opening explanation, because this report has these and certain measures that should be taken in order to stabilise the energy market in Croatia, which should be implemented by the government. And since we are today, we are discussing in the 2017 report all of this is old-fashioned data and it just shows that this government has neither a plan nor a programme, nor is it able to deal with these problems. So, in this report, it's interesting, for example, that in 2017, there was an increase in gas use by 15% compared to the year before, probably because it was available, and we're, for example, getting gas all over Croatia, and that will no longer be so, so this data has run over them long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135472	Thank you very much. Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135473	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Today, when we were looking for a break, we just heard that with 1.4, it's gathering electricity. Since this is not true, since it is actually a deliberate deception of our citizens, I ask you to clearly and loudly explain in your or final presentation or now in response to the replica, that the price of electricity, the citizens do not change a single June with 1.4, and neither do entrepreneurs nor the economy. Those who have contracts with suppliers will not change a single June, and eventually will change those who knowingly and deliberately may have broken those contracts to get a more favourable price, but as it was agreed with their suppliers, so you had to change the methodology for those in the guaranteed supply system, therefore, only entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135474	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Miro Totgergeli will come here and continue the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135475	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy president of the Governing Council of HERA. The report was properly made and the obligation to regulate energy activities was met, where HERA is obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament. An analysis of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia has been carried out, according to data collected by the Agency and presented to the HERA budget for 2017. As regards electricity, according to the 2017 report, the most important change from 2016 is the separation of electricity supply activities, which are performed as a public service, so we are talking about a universal and guaranteed service from the distribution system operator. The public supply service is the same throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, at publicly published prices and for this purpose a new company HEP-Electra d.o.o. was established at the end of 2016. that he's been doing. Electricity prices in the Republic of Croatia are determined on a market basis, including electricity prices under the universal service, to which customers in the category of households have the right, and the exception is the provision guaranteed, for which HERA determines tariff items using a specific methodology. Since 1 January 2017, a single electricity bill has been introduced to all final customers on the low voltage network, so all low voltage customers, who then received two bills, one for electricity from suppliers and the other for network compensation from the distribution system operator, have started to receive a single account from their suppliers. Also, since 1 January 2017, VAT on electricity has been reduced by 13%, but since 1 September 2017, the amount of compensation for the promotion of electricity production from renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration to 0.1 kn per KWh, which has changed the structure of the total electricity price. As for consumption, the report shows that electricity consumption is higher by 2.96% compared to 2016, while the peak load in 2017 was 3079 MW and was recorded, and was recorded during August, and there was a minimum of only 1300 MW, which is a significant difference between minimum and maximum. This is the third year in a row that the top load of the Croatian electricity system has been recorded during the summer months. In previous years, high loads have mostly occurred in the winter months. As regards production, in 2017 it was an extremely dry year, such as the first part, such as this 2019, which resulted in a reduction in the production of electricity from hydropower plants and a significant amount of electricity, and 41% of imports, respectively. From the electricity purchased from the imports, as we have already heard, 3 TWh, was submerged from Krško nuclear power plant, which means 4.4 TWh from net imports. Production by type of production, hydropower plants 46, thermopower plants 37, wind power plants 11 and renewable source energy 4.95%. Furthermore, the transmission and distribution of electricity to the Republic of Croatia are regulated energy activities carried out as public services. There's one transmission system operator, and that's HOPS, and one distribution system operator, HEP ODS. The lengths of their networks in 2017 at 400 kV have 1247 km, at 220 1213, at 110 kV 5239 km transmission, while the distribution operates with a network of 35 to lower kW and this network 35 kilovoltage has 4515 km, 20 kilovolt 8898, 10 kilovolt 28 232 km, and 0.4 kV, therefore low voltage network, 62 201 km. The connection has 36 579 km. The losses in the distribution network in 2017 were 1.34 GWh and 8% of the electricity obtained in that network, which is more than in 2016. What concerns is the share of non-technical losses, in total losses, which are about 50%, according to the report. It is therefore good that HERA asked HEP ODS to implement the measures more intensively, such as the verification of the connections and the number of other measures to reduce unauthorized electricity consumption. The results of these measures will be seen in that report you announced for 2018. The losses in the transmission network are 1.9% of the total transmission of electricity in that network and these are the lowest losses over the past 8 years, as regards transmission. There were mentions of whether hep could do it, i.e. HOPS and HEP ODS invested enough in networks, so here, the HOPS invested 443.3 million kuna in 2017, while HEP ODS investments amounted to 923 million kuna. If we look over the years, which the transfer invested, or what the amount of investment is, then we can see that in 2017 in the last 5 years one of which is the most invested in investments, therefore, that finding that the transfer does not have enough resources does not stand because from year to year more and more invests exactly in the network. As regards distribution, it is interesting that, for example, in 2014 out of the total investments, 880 million kuna, investments for electricity conditions and connections, means for the accession of new customers were one quarter of that, and in 2017 they rose in total and now make up one third of the total investment, which means that from 2014 to 2017 we have an increase in investment in new accessions. The tariff items according to the report for the transmission of electricity and for the distribution of electricity for 2017 have not changed compared to 2016 and the average prices for the use of the network for all categories of customers are 8.4 June per kW for the transmission and 22.2 per kW for the distribution of electricity. The only provider of electricity system balancing and assistance services in 2017 was HEP production d.o.o. At the end of 2017, the number of electricity metering points was around 2.39 million, the total sales of electricity to final customers amounted to 16.6 TWh, which is 3.8% more than 2016 and this increase in total consumption is the result of the increase in consumption of customers from all categories and the share of households in total electricity sales is 38.8% while the share of entrepreneurship is 61.2%. There was a slight increase in the share of electricity sales to final customers in the category of entrepreneurship compared to 2016. The average electricity price for the final customers in the universal supply, therefore the household is HEP Elektra, in 2017 it was 0.45 kuna per kW, without network and VAT. The quality of electricity supply is defined and monitored in the light of the reliability of power supply and service quality, with the gradual introduction of financial compensation to customers after the introduction of guaranteed standards of quality of electricity supply. The system of incentives for total electricity produced from power plants included in the incentive system in 2017 has been paid about 1.9 billion kuna. The average electricity price paid to the preferential producers in 2017 is 0.84kn per kW and the market price is 0.38kn per kW. If we look at these average prices per type of plant in the incentive system, then what is paid per kW for solar power plants 1,93kn per kW, for hydropower plants 0,96kn per kW, for wind power plants 0,74kn per kW, for biomass power plants 1,26kn per kW, biogas power plants 1,28kn per kW, power plants for dump gas and gas from waste water treatment plant 0,38kn per kW and for cogeneration of 0,53kn per kW. So the average price on the stock market is 0.38kn per kW. So much for electricity. As regards natural gas according to the 2018 report, the total amount of natural gas at the entrance to the transport system was 32 thousand 348 million kW, which is 17% higher than in 2016. Of which domestic production is 34.6%, which is 3.1% of the previous 2016. The imports entered the system 55.5% which is 39.9% more than in 2016 and from the underground Gas Storage Around, 9.9% of total transport quantities entered into the transport system, which is 20% lower than in 2016. The total amount of natural gas on the way out of the transport system was 32 thousand 340 million kW, which is 17% higher than in 2016, so we have a rise. Of these, the final customers are directly connected to the transport system, of 52.4%, to customers on distribution systems 34.5%, which is the same 3.1% compared to 2016 and 13% of total quantities were delivered to the underground Gas Storage around the year 2016, which is 28.9% more than in 2016. According to gas suppliers, in 2017, 10 thousand 839 million kW of gas was delivered from distribution systems, from which 6 million were delivered to households and 4 000 822 million to entrepreneurship, 6 thousand million kW to households and 4 thousand 822 million to entrepreneurs. The transport gas service in 2017 was used in 49 gas suppliers associated in 13... group. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given that my time has run out, the HDZ Club will support this report with the addition of HERA to complete the report on renewable energy sources of cogeneration and privileged producers. .../Intruder Radin: Thank you, sir... I can't give you any more time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also necessary to supplement the following reports in the section relating to the action guidelines that HERA will bring into line with the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135476	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Sasa Djujic is in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135477	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry, I'd give my colleagues five minutes to finish this exhaustingly my report with numbers if it could be done but unfortunately it's not going, so I'm gonna cut my debate short. So I've already said, this report is satisfactory because it's a representation of numbers and states in the country as they are. But it is too late because it refers to 2017 and it is a disaster for me to discuss today a 2-year-old report because Croatian citizens of these figures and letters have nothing to do with 2017. So, this report lists a series of measures that the government should make to ensure Croatia's energy independence, to make energy cheaper and more accessible Croatian citizens, and today in the Croatian Parliament we are discussing something that happened 2 years ago and we don't even know the real state of things in Croatia today, except that on Monday, it collects gas for citizens throughout Croatia, it was Hera published on its site, and that is the correct data, so on Monday, it will collect gas 275 kn, average per household in Croatia, on Monday, and unfortunately it is not a first-april joke, but it will collect electricity prices to electricity suppliers on Monday. Now, I'd like someone here to tell me that they guarantee that it will not produce electricity collection by the end of the year and for Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, given some market conditions and how it works, I think by the end of the year we can expect electricity collection. It's interesting how these gatherings happen here, let's say, specifically for gas. 1.4. At the end of the heating season let's say that when the gas consumption is expected to be reduced over the next 6 months. Over the summer, because the heating will no longer be, and then those who collect gas prices expect our citizens to not even notice it, and that's why it's being introduced since Monday, and that's why I think it's all a thought-out action when and how it's going to collect energy in Croatia. So this government has neither a plan nor a strategy of energy independence and the security of our citizens, it is illogical for me to praise on one side the sudden charge of budgets, excellent inflows, stabilising Croatian finances and on the other hand we witness daily the increasing and greater burden of our citizens with various things, from energy, waste and various other taxes, etc. So that's something that shows that this government is doing nothing about it. When we talk about electricity, I'm waiting for that market liberalisation at last. I don't understand why the state and government won't let citizens produce electricity in their solar panels, in some of their areas. Why is that number limited? Why can only some in Croatia produce it? These data show that more than 40% when it comes to electricity, 55% of the energy we import and we have huge areas in Croatia, in our islands, in our coast, which have a huge number of sunny days a year, which is why people there are not allowed to produce electricity at home and sell extras at HEP, for what? Laugh you fellow Totgergeli, you read these data, figures and letters from 2017, that's what it is to you but this essential problem you don't give answers in HDZ or protect someone's lobby, here I would be interested in it. So I get complaints from people every day, why can't I at home produce electricity like people, as citizens all over Europe for my needs and for selling in HEP surpluses, why? Why can't you do that? Whose interest is there to protect? That's the question. And on the other hand, you're doing energy independence, I'm going to mention LNG again on the island of Krk. This is the policy of this government, against the will of the citizens, against the planning documentation, against the law of this country to draw up an old oily ship for which no one has any interest because no one reported to the competition then the government orders state firms to report to the competition, that they must build and that's your energy policy. Energy policy around the ego of Minister Coric, the ego of individual people in this government, and to the harm of Croatian citizens, is what HDZ does and should not do. He should do other things but this report in 2017 and the state of energy of Croatia in 2017, which is being discussed in the Croatian Parliament today, is another mockery of the ruling Croatian citizens. Who can explain to me that citizens today are interested in these megawatts, kilowatts, how much is who, what do people have out of it? How much is produced in 2017, what is encouraged, what is not encouraged? They are only interested in Monday how much electricity it will cost them, how much gas it will cost them, how much it will have to pay, how much less they will have for their children and for some of their own needs because they have to pay more energy because the government is not implementing politics and is not working on stabilising energy security in our country, these are issues that should be discussed in this Visko home and not killing citizens with an hour of debate here, figures and letters, aged which question you've given at all are true today. Here's what I wanted to say and I'm not going to go into those figures and letters from 2017. So what we need here is a debate on the country's energy security and on our policy and how to make life easier for citizens and reduce their costs and again I say, in all things we have to be the last, in all Croatia must be the last and it's not clear to me why let us say it again, I'm going to say this once again that people can produce electricity at home. Here's a laugh from the HDZ, I know it's quantum physics for you because if you knew how to solve it then you'd get rid of it and we wouldn't be here talking about the stimulating and megawatts and numbers and letters that we all got a year and a half ago so we could read 211 pages, we had time and probably this report would come in 2 months. Here we will have time to read and for the next year and a half, and then we will see what is written inside, and in 2 years we may be discussing what was in 2018, mostly, sad and poor, and there are no misinformations, there are no delusions, from Monday to Monday collecting gas in Croatia, in all of Croatia, the most expensive in Dalmatia, this is HERA published on its site, collecting electricity for suppliers, which I think will lead to electricity collection for all Croatian citizens, and that is the policy of this government, and that should be made clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135478	Thank you, too. Mr. Boris Milosevic, in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135479	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Agency, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We're discussing a report from a very powerful state agency, which has very high powers. It says for itself and the regulations say it is independent and independent, formally registered as an institution. He has public authority, which means he can pass sublegal regulations so he can handle administrative matters, as well as be able to initiate misdemeanors. At the head of this strong and powerful public institution, the Administrative Council of 5 members, who elects this very High House for 7 years. I've been professionally engaged in agencies and other legal persons with public authority, but I'm not going to talk about it today, I'm not going to talk about organising HERA and what HERA should improve in its work, but I'm going to say about what the report says. And the report says, HERA stresses its role in protecting customers, as HERA, at least according to the report, protects the customer. It says that customer protection is done in a number of ways, and one of these is to resolve individual complaints and complaints of customers, therefore, based on public authority, and on the other hand by adopting regulations governing a single energy market. So, customers, or, in this case, are not just citizens, but I always kind of think of citizens, they can protect their rights against HERA in a way that they can run, to file various submissions or to start, or to file, complaints or objections against, therefore, those who supply them with energy. I also think that this is important or that there should be an emphasis and that it should most protect the very customers who have acquired the status of the threatened customer, which are, therefore, those of our citizens, who, according to the regulations on health care, social care, are actually in social need, are socially endangered and actually need to help them, so that they can meet their obligations, i.e., that they can have access primarily to the power grid, i.e., electricity. HEP has been doing an analysis of these complaints and complaints of citizens, so not only citizens, but the most citizens and in fact I have looked at that analysis and I have come to the conclusion that this work and their role are not actually recognized by the citizens. It is simply amazing to me that throughout 2017 the complaint from the area of electricity received in HERA has a total of 185. So we have millions of consumers and we have only 185 complaints all year round. This means to me or that customers are really satisfied with the services, that they have no problems on the ground, in everyday life, or that the citizens did not recognize you. It seems to me that this is more like it, that the citizens didn't recognize you. If the citizens didn't recognize you, that means you're not doing your job well to protect the customer. I've looked at your stations, there's a nice flyer for the household, the final customers, so from the household category, and where the rights of citizens are explained in what way to protect who to turn to, but according to this statistic, citizens don't know about you, citizens haven't heard from you, and citizens don't, therefore, talk to you. And I think you need to work on your visibility, visibility and citizens need to know about you. You have to cooperate with consumer associations and you have to get close to the citizens in any other way, not be closed because I don't think these 185 complaints and complaints are responding to life. What I wanted to say in my presentation and to emphasise is, the connection with the first point today we talked about, and today we were talking about land books, so it's about restoring connections to the power grid, those citizens who had it before the war, related to the problem of legalising objects, taxed with the problem of resolving ownership legal relations. Here we have two sides of that problem, the first side of the operator, which when he wants to build some kind of facility or facility, in order to allow citizens in some area to have access to electricity, they have to get, here, I found a memo, where they have to get about 20 papers. And okay, that's the rules and that's fine, let them get it, and why make it harder for them? Why make it difficult with regulations in situations where we haven't solved ownership legal relations, in situations where they have to build an object on land, which has 20 owners? And out of those 20 owners, 19, no one knows where they are or were long gone, and then we're looking for heirs and they can't be found. So here we have a stalemate in the project and we're making it impossible for citizens who live there to gain access to energy, and it makes it very difficult to rebuild the power grid in those areas where it used to be. On the other hand, this programme of resuscitation and reconstruction of the power grid, as it used to be called and which we are now trying to push into the mandate of this government, that these people finally welcome the connection to electricity, they also have the same problem, they have no resolved ownership relations on their houses and then have a problem getting the connection. We talked this morning about the Law on Land Books, how this is a big problem, that the state has not yet entered all its parcels, all its land, and it will certainly take her a few more years to finish the job. And where are the citizens? And these citizens in these rural areas are older, they have no knowledge, they have no more life force, they have no enthusiasm, they have no money, they have to settle their own legal relations, and that's one of the conditions to get a connection. I could be here all day talking about individual, concrete cases, which I guess they didn't talk to you about, because in these 185 cases, these citizens are trying to solve their question to get the connection. So I'm not talking about this case that I mentioned today, where he's been trying to solve the property issue over his house for 12 years. You have the public authority to change the rules, you have the authority to bring general conditions for using the network and supplying electricity. I urge you to amend this regulation, to adapt it to life and living conditions and environments and realities that are pictured by the administration in the garland, unsettled property-washed relationships, unsolved land-books. I wish we had neat land books and neat property, that the garter was all 1/1 then we could talk about these terms. While this is not the case, it is illusory to expect the general conditions to say that only the owner can get the connection, if he would send some inspection on the ground, to exclude all those customers, who have not resolved their ownership issue, anywhere in Croatia or even in urban areas, and would exclude half of Croatia. Half of Croatia would have no access to electricity. So, let's adapt regulations to life, let's not punish citizens by regulations, because every day without electricity is one day too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135480	Thank you very much. Now that it's 13.00 hours, we're going to take a stand on behalf of the clubs. We will now return to the points that we have for a moment interrupted and to the clubs of MPs and now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135482	Thank you very much. Dear representative of HERA, we are talking here about the regulatory agency, essentially which regulates the energy system. However, I don't know if you're aware when we're talking about this that national security, energy security, because HERA has let through its fingers essentially allowed together with policy, are you not an independent body that should instead of having a renewable energy source with our wealth of sun have microsolares, we've allowed wind power plants in foreign ownership not a single piece of wind parks and wind power plants not from the Republic of Croatia, a billion and per kuna per year to go out of our citizens' pockets and a billion more of those that mean a total of 2.5 billion kuna. Because of such inadequacies, it's huge damage to our citizens and that money is being pulled out. If we had installed microsolars for this amount of money, today we wouldn't have energy poor citizens who give the state 500 million kuna a year for heating, state, local self-government, for heating to our citizens. We could have built a microsolar on every house, an independent family, and there would be no more energy poverty. MOST of Independent Lists is already a long series of stand-offs in the process, the Law on Microsolars, and not only would independence and energy poverty reduce what people should no longer pay for, single out the state's money but they would start production because every part of the microsolare, solar panels can be produced in Croatia and those who will set up what means that major damages have been done and you as an agency have to stop it and I'll tell you an example. The man placed microsolares on his facility in 2013, the solar panels, it seems to me about 30 kW, exactly 30 kW, paid all together 60 000 euros, got permits from HEP, all valid permits, but he did not get an overview of what was then called for renewable energy sources, but they got wind parks that were foreign owned, I repeat. So when it didn't come to the criteria it was, I just heard it was shared a minute before midnight. From all this it turns out that everything comes out of the citizens' pocket, we don't use our sun, which nature and god gave us, but we do benefit from foreign interests that were dragged through the law in 2015 at a session of Zoran Milanovic, which was carried out by the Minister of then Ivan Vrdoljak, now a coalition partner of the HDZ, which essentially endangered the energy independence of our citizens and also national security because of the fact that because we have conditions, it gave foreigners the opportunity to earn at the advantage of the price, which is why most of our citizens in Dalmatia should be costing electricity. They will be able to change the price four times a year, according to this information you have not confirmed that or not since Monday, it accumulates gas, meaning 6.9%, in Slavonia as part of the Save for Slavonia project, the Slavonians will collect 7.7% of the gas so that people will feel in their pocket and what is left of the people, instead of having cheaper energy for our entrepreneurs, here I am just looking at the River Cetina stream that produces 60% of the hydropower in the Republic where we have one of the oldest, Queen of 1912, a hydropower plant, where we have the largest lake of drinking waters of Peru where you also intended a harmful project of the Peruca thermal power plant, where it was intended to be, yes, Minister Buric i.e., her husband. We have six facilities, five hydrocenters, and then we have a rent and the city of Sinj doesn't have a rent. There is no master energy producing a stream of river Cetina and electricity is more expensive. The same as our entrepreneurs as in France, where did we get this competitiveness? Which is why those areas that only exploit are being exploited if 60% of the hydroenergy from the river Cetina, and these areas are evicting, which is why they don't have at least entrepreneurs, privileged in that area and we don't have people, because we don't have entrepreneurs, because they don't have any advantages and everything has come to Zagreb and what's not in Zagreb, it's gone out to Ireland and Germany, which is why they don't have privileged electricity, which is why we need to talk about it. HERA means not an independent body, I'm going in, I've gone a little wider, HERA is not an independent body solely because of this example where a 100% disabled Homeland War, where I said to my house, my facility 60 000, where 30 kW installed microsolares, in 2013, it collapses, rots everything, it's ready to be included in the network, it has all the permits valid from HEP, all relevant bodies, but it didn't get it but the wind power plants did. Oh, one more time, I'm gonna do what I said at the beginning. Why the space if you have it and you're watching it? Investment plans that you approve of HEP because HEP has profits, this money is spent on sponsorship and sponsorship and not on investment development. Well, here in, I'll tell you honestly, I mean really honest, I've been running protests, literally when a sparrow would fall on wires as naked as in, I don't know during Western movies, it'd run out of power, if it blew in Osijek, it'd blow a storm or it'd run out of power. When it was dressed in Italy, the power went out. The wires more, the low-voltage network infrastructure was catastrophic, something moved in one time at the end of 2016, something invested in the trafostations in changes, but it's still old infrastructure, it's those more lady wires, so the man when he was cleaning the chimney, in order to almost fall, he got caught by two living, there's, you know, ancient, it's not cabled, nothing happened to him, he's still alive what the voltage is, and people are paying normal voltage that should be 220 W, is it like that when you get into the meat shop, you don't have to pay a pound of meat to give you a butcher 5 kilos of meat. The electricity poles are more of that moment, the ones holding the wires, the ancient ones, something has changed in certain places, but still along with the hydropower plants that I've been counting, the settlements along Peru, the settlements along the Zakučac, the settlements along the Djale, so in the area of the Cetin plum, it's a catastrophic situation. Instead of having people there some benefits, they have instead of 220 W basically, check it out, I don't know, I even protested here 5-6 years ago because that's where I live. Something's changing, trying to change, but it should change everything, I mean, it's minimal for people who are given a service, to be given a quality service. That's how you get into the Dalmatian burn in most places. Yes, simply a low-voltage power grid is in catastrophic condition. I don't know how HEP works, I guess they're writing a concessionaire contest that has to change that low voltage network, and I believe it needs to go faster, that it has to go faster, I don't think, not only that they're hurting people, but the damage to computers, or simply when you light a boiler, your computer and TV go out, if you turn on a washing machine or dishes, can't do both. So, just as a regulatory agency, you have to pay attention in those parts because these citizens pay that current of 220 W, and no, I don't know how much. I know people are complaining, I've been called before, I'm a citizen living in that area, I've reacted to HEP, we've been protesting, we've even thought about drinking those old pillars, so something's only then started to react because it's just better not to have them, but to have them, they're dangerous in their lives because, more about wires, they just bend down. So, the low voltage network is catastrophic, and the only thing you know, is, you know, you know, invest in yourself for a campaign, and that's all HEP sponsorships are basically ruling campaigns, so I'd ask you to control all patronage. And give us a report, if you know how many patronages went into patronage, which had to go into investment and development. We don't have that information. What about that profit? Because there can't be any state-owned company or HEP, because he, I'm for him to own the state, it's a strategic national company, no one can alienate it without a referendum, which tried, but there can't be a state in the country. And that profit cannot be shared only through sponsorship and sponsorship, in order to win HDZ elections. Or HNS, I don't know who's winning it now. So, while I was saying what a low-voltage network is, what trafostations are, you see, I think it's a tourist attraction. And when they see the wires hanging, the old ones, it's unimaginable. And once again, try to be an independent regulatory body, don't favor foreign investors, protect us from those who manage this in our inter-human system, protect our citizens, protect our national security, the safety of our families, and don't extract profits from our assets outside, as is the case with wind power plants, which is what you're witnessing, you know, but you won't say that the profit that's huge is coming out, which is wind power plants, instead of investing in solars. You must say the same, if you are an independent body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135483	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is this Living Wall and the SNAGA, in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135484	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen who are present and empty chairs who are here today in the vast majority. Today in front of the Parliament are students and students who demand changes in our country's climate attitude, and since today is the report of the Regulatory Agency for Energy, I would like to point out the failed policies of the Croatian Government. One of them is the orientation of fossil fuels. For example. The construction of the thermal power plants that the government supported, on the one hand, and on the other hand the construction of LNG terminals in Omislje. Why is LNG terminal a failure? Because Croatia does not need an alternative way to bring gas because we already have a path that brings us gas and which is cheaper than the road that the government is planning already needs other sources of energy. So the government needs to put more effort into, say, setting up a solar plant, we have a bunch of roofs in Croatia, especially in Dalmatia that could be used without a problem to collect solar energy. And as a telecom operator puts the infrastructure on a telecommunications facility and earns it from being able to play a signal from there and earns a person who gave his house, or an object to place a transmitter on it, so people who have real estate and HEP who would set up these electrical installations could also earn it. So you have a win-win situation, but instead of a win-win situation that would benefit both HEP and citizens who can free room to set up those infrastructures and everyone who will naturally spend that electricity we have a situation that the government doesn't care at all. The government doesn't care, let's say, about electric vehicles. So the state would have to make a strategy in transformation, means vehicles to encourage vehicles to power, that more power stations, etc., set clear goals. These are the goals this government does not have. We also have a problem with the naked cutting of our forests, illegal cuttings, police unfortunately do not work enough to stop cutting on foreign parcels that occur neither Croatian forests work enough in my court to stop naked cutting and destroying actually one green, one green belt, the surface represents a loss for our society. Croatia must also take a step from classical agriculture to permaculture. In the permaculture, fruits and vegetables work together. So it's all growing together and it's getting a whole of a colorful spectrum of fruits and there's a much smaller need for irrigation or for soil processing, and it's generally a lot less work to be done. However, the state does not encourage, for example, the development of permaculture gardens, but rather promotes the actual cultivation of monocultures. Why if monoculture is necessary to fertilise and permaculture is not, if there is much more energy and work to invest in monoculture than in permaculture and incomes regarding permakculture products are huge. And you can plant the so-called so-called. profit cultures even increase income from permacultural areas compared to traditional ones. Also, this government does not realize that in Croatia we have a responsibility to our planet and that the way waste is taken care of in Croatia, the way in which the vast majority of waste is not classified is simply inadequate but the government I repeat does nothing about it. You've recently had a lot of downfalls in Istria, and then the garbage has gone all over the place, so on and so forth. It is not clear to me how it is possible in such a way in the 21st century to be lords in our country. And what's also important, you see, you don't have in schools any education on these issues that I've just mentioned. So questions about organic farming, or permakculture, or, say, the effects of a man on the climate are not at all in school, school material. And what the state does is, in fact, it is now another new blow on citizens where not only does it not think progressively but also those who believe in this system that put their hope in government policy actually makes life difficult for example to collect electricity and gas. And why do they collect electricity and gas? That's a good question, in my court it's clear if the state plans to spend big money on building LNG terminals, if it's clear that the gas is more expensive there and that the state is actually forcing state firms to buy that expensive gas, but it's clear that it will also collect gas for the citizens. At least that's my judgment. However, this government assures people that entering a non-profit project and buying more expensive gas has nothing to do with collecting gas for citizens. And already, the price of gas is high, and there have already been uninterrupted gatherings. And I'm asking you gentlemen, so how do you think the state will succeed or the industry will survive? You're the witnesses to the fact that the first iron mill in Sisak went out, then the refinery went out in Sisak, and now it's getting more and more certain, and the bankruptcy of the so-called. Great shipbuilding. So we're running out of that branch, too. And if you collect the price of gas and the price of electricity, then ask yourself how a Petrochemy that already has a price that is too expensive is too high, that a Petrochemy, that a Petrochemy will survive if the price of gas increases, and their gas is the largest resource. And you by collecting gas and electricity for so-called. Economic operators, you're sticking the nail into our economy's coffin again. And I know that you have the best policy in the world and that you think you need to collect, that you need to shut down the refinery in Sisak, say, that you need to push the shipyard into bankruptcy, etc. But what you're going to do, it's going to be people without jobs and the whole economy can't function on tourism. It is nowhere in the world that in a country that is not tropical that everything is based on tourism because only tropical countries can have a steady flow of tourists, we do not have it in Croatia. And you can't have one Dalmatia, as much as they do, she can't drag the rest of the state to herself, let's understand that. The country must develop evenly. And you, if you don't have a strategy with renewable energy choices where, say, solars would be placed on houses or hot water heaters, so how, you, it's a solution to LNG terminal and thermal power plants in the 21st century. I remember when I was looking at Morocco City was probably the biggest solar field in the world, I guess. I was shocked to see the size of this project and investment. They're literally working in the desert, they're actually the energy center. But we in Croatia who should be smarter than the Moroccans and more advanced than the Moroccans and more developed than the Moroccans are unfortunately behind the Moroccans. One India, one India ahead of us, light years in terms of the exploitation of solar energy and India is considered a third world country. Isn't that a shame? And I don't get it here, Your Honor, is there any way that a session of the Parliament can be held when there are no proposing representatives in the House? Here I am begging you to give me an answer to that question, not right now. ... Sir, Your Honor, I'm asking you to suspend this until the motionary's representative arrives. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135485	Of course, the proposer's representative should be present and he was present all the time, this moment has come out for a moment, if you want we can give a break and will come back or we can wait for her, however you like.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135486	I just want to tell you that...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135487	All right, I'll take a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135488	Thank you. It's a 13-50-hour meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135489	CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS 10 minute break. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you are, colleague Pernar, you have a representative of the government who will listen to you very closely along with six MPs who listen to you as highly as you do. Here you go. Asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135490	The Honorable Chairman. One of the reasons why people are bitter, is that the number of MPs who listen at all to the debate is very small. People are bitter because they see that MPs do not come to their workplace and that chairs are empty. At the moment when the proposing officer left the assembly, I prayed that the session be suspended, so that I might point to this shameful attitude towards the legislative body, which is often fought that it is exalted to be some kind of House of Highs, etc. But from the relationship between MPs and the proposing representatives to him, I have no idea that they really mean it. But back to the question of the Energy Agency's report. Her report is not positively perceived by me, because no vision is offered, no new solutions are offered, no progressive or new perspective on reality is offered. We're only offered, we're told the same story, the same view of the world that reigns until '91. in Croatia against the power of government today 2019 So nothing's changed. Still this government is based on vehicles that are on fossil fuels, still instead of thinking about an alternative to new ways of creating energy, they are now working on LNG terminals. Well, it's both an ecological and economically harmful project. He wants to build a power plant government. How do we support that? The permaculture of the state doesn't support it. The state glares over the bare cutting of forests and eventually collects electricity and water, i.e. electricity and gas. When there's a collection of electricity and gas and what's left of it will be broken. So already in the mandate of this government, HDZ, the diameter of Plenkovic, is already explained and the refinery, the shipyards do not work. What about petrochemicals? If the petrochemicals rise again the price of gas, they can't stand the current price either. Are you aware of what that means to them, did you even care? I'm afraid not, I'm afraid you're looking from a personal perspective and you think if you're personally well, that everything is okay and I believe that everything is okay for you and I believe that in your life it's great and that you're happy about the position you're in. But wonder how petrochemicals will survive. If the petrochemicals fail, more than 1,000 people will be out of work. And what do you need people for? These people are gonna be sad. You're thinking a little bit about, you're thinking about others. Don't just think about yourself, run something, make some people, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135491	Thank you very much. I agree absolutely with you that it is not right that so few MPs present, here, is not even, except your none of your party present and it is not good. There should be representatives from all parties, from the opposition, of course, the same, only one representative. We should all be here talking about this important subject. We're going to the next individual debate, because we've finished our clubs, and that will be Domagoj Hajdukovic's respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, I'm going to start with what my colleague Pernar's finished with, now that we've got a new rules of procedure, we can't replicate the clubs. But when we talk about renewable energy sources, it is indeed true that there is a Croatian helmet, which is also the case for the standards set by the EU and I hope that we will not have to pay for the foam. But while Morocco has some pre-conditions of nature, for what counterpart Pernar said, that he saw them building and having a goal and vision, which is to become the leading producer of electricity in Africa, Croatia does not. So if you have a desert, it's usually a land that isn't used, but it's just going to use quite constructively, if solar panels are placed in its area. On the other hand, I know that in Slavonia it also became a trend for a time, that in the fields, therefore, on the orans, certain owners wanted to put solar panels on the farm. It's no longer approved and I absolutely support it, because it's a waste of land. So we're losing something that would otherwise be processed and that would otherwise yield some income, and on the other hand, I don't know what those owners were motivated to do, so the country's not being processed, but having income purely from electricity. However, when we talk about houses, public buildings, so roofs and similar surfaces are unfortunately unused in terms of solar energy, light energy, and what I know is that there are companies in Croatia dealing with production or elements or whole solar panels. So we could also put our production and our knowledge into service of what would ultimately produce clean renewable energy. When we talk about infrastructure, which is something the Vice-President of the Governing Council mentioned at the outset, I cannot agree that the infrastructure is satisfactory, when we talk about urban centres. I'll tell you on my own example. So, the wires that electricity comes into my household are antiques. They belong to a museum, not in Croatia 21st century, so that's another 5 wires of porcelain and I don't know, a little bit of wind, I don't have electricity. And I'm talking about Osijek, which is one urban environment, the largest urban environment in eastern Croatia, it's a disaster. A disaster, and my household isn't the only one with such infrastructure. Parts of Croatia have no electricity, but well, that's what it's all about. I absolutely agree with what the vice president of the board of directors said, that this is actually, I'm going to say a little bit in other words an outdated report. we are discussing the 2017 report that should have served us as the legislator of this government as a guideline to what should be done next year, which are projects to make Croatia as self-sustainable as possible and that all possible supply problems and problems in obtaining electricity not only electrically, not only electrically but also other energy sources could be overcome, or could be solved. So recommendations and plans that should be met when? Last year. When we're going to discuss last year's report, maybe two years from now, but that's all it's already passed, and then I'm afraid these reports don't have the purpose to have, and that's to say to us and to the government as an executive part of the government, they serve as a guideline to which way to go and what to do next year. Unfortunately, I'm afraid it's all just one little taser in the mosaic of how much we don't have visions of how we want to develop in no area, and that's what I keep saying and I think we should keep repeating, that our citizens need to be aware of it. So we don't have a strategy where we see Croatia in 10 years or in any area, or in terms of education, or in terms of economic development, tourism and then energy independence. Unfortunately, only within the framework of the current year or the current political mandate is considered and is not seen beyond. 4 years is very little personal if we talk about some strategic interests of Croatia. So if we're reading the HERA data that we have ahead of us, we're going to hang on to the gas consumption but it's also rising the price of gas, colleagues and colleagues. And yes, some before me have spoken, I can only agree that this seems to me like a targeted addition to why exactly on April 1st, because then gas consumption is likely to fall, the real addition will only feel when the new heating season starts, so somewhere at the end of the year. Gas will collect depending on distributors and will especially gather in Slavonia. So in the part of Croatia, the eastern part of Croatia, which is the most severely affected by the depopulations from which people leave and this will certainly be another cream on cake, so to say, this is a 7% increase, it is around 20 kuna per month, it may seem to someone here a little household special, nursing households, especially households that do not have large incomes and, unfortunately, such people in Slavonia have a lot of pensions of 2,000 kuna, 20 kuna more on account of the monthly feels the same as on the overall budget. It also collects electricity. I don't know some HDZ colleagues, I don't suppose they want to face facts, but here, I'm going to quote a medium that says, quote, "From April 1st comes electricity collection." Entrepreneurs using so-called guaranteed HEP service, electricity will collect by 20% to 30%. In early June, citizens could find themselves benefiting from HEP's universal service, however, to a slightly smaller extent than entrepreneurs. 20 to 30%, colleagues and colleagues. Our entrepreneurs who are already burdened with a whole series of parafiscal duties, who will often feel like the state is designed to choke them and not to help them just to work, to leave them alone now will have to deal with this collection, and we know if the energies are gathering, and prices of fuels are savage, that it means that it means the collection of inflation, that it means the collection of services, the collection and the goods and the general collection, which, by the way, will be produced by a large collection of electricity in the market in Croatia. These are the issues that we most have to worry about as those we are directly responsible for our voters, which is how the state provides them with energy, which is their origin, so whether it's a renewable energy source and at what cost, of course. So we can also talk about Croatia's great energy potential, but unfortunately we often talk only about the potentials that Croatia has, not only about energy but generally but generally but which are still unused. So this report is what it is. So it cannot be changed, these are the number of facts and recommendations, I personally support, so I see nothing controversial but what would not support and the relationship between the government and those who are now leading, or who are the majority in the House, according to this topic, which is that we are discussing with more than a year of delay something that we should have discussed at the beginning of 2018 and make some conclusions on this basis, and in this direction direct our efforts and those legislative and executive authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135493	Thank you. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135494	Thank you very much. Col. Hajduković, we could still get past the fact that this report in the Parliament presents itself with a year late, and that is, unfortunately, it has become a common practice in the work of the Croatian Parliament, but what we cannot overcome is the re-drinking of the skin of Croatian citizens, since 1 April of this year, the accumulation of gas and electricity that will further burden the lives of our citizens both in Osijek and Zagreb and Rijeka. For example, in the city of Zagreb at an annual level, this increase for the average family, the gas consumption will be over 2 hundred kuna. If someone is in HDZ a little bit, if the government is that small, believe me, our citizens are very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135495	The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I couldn't agree more with you, but allow me this little patriotism place when I say that this is, in fact, a real government project of Slavonia, let's devastate it to the end. It is not enough that people are leaving, it is not enough that there is no work, it is not enough that Croatia has unfortunately become the most passive and underdeveloped part of Croatia let's make their lives even worse and more expensive energy, more expensive electricity, more expensive gas. I wonder who will work our country in Slavonia, who will live in Croatia at all if we continue this way. This is no incentive measure at all. Watch out, 20 to 30 percent of the collection is not small. If we're talking about 100 kuna, it's 20 to 30 kuna and a small household spends only 100 kuna values of electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135497	The next replica is the respected MPs of Petrijevcanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135498	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, I agree with you that this is unacceptable to discuss with this time-out such an important report, but on the other hand it is only a report which is the purpose of being informed or rejected or accepted, and the purpose of the report is otherwise to point to all areas of improvement. And as we can see in this report, it's very clear where the room for improvement is. And what you have apostrophe as something important is the insufficient use of renewable energy infrastructure in Croatia and the lack of some kind of strategy that you might agree with. And what is also important is to monitor the transparency of the entire energy sector market, however, we see that this is obviously an uninteresting topic for the debate, regardless of what is a very important topic for Croatia at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135499	The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135500	Well, dear colleagues, as far as renewable energy is concerned, I couldn't agree more. However, your relationship with the report, so we need to take it into consideration or not to accept it, and then why are we even discussing it at all? Then what's the point? In my view, it is the purpose of these reports to give us a specific direction in which we should go and what we should do in the year after that report. So what are the laws that we should possibly change and what the Government should do, what measures to make the energy market the best possible way to benefit our citizens first of all. Because that's where we were elected by the citizens. They're my first priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135501	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Totgergelia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135502	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Hajdukovic, 1.4 is on Sunday, and I claim that electricity... The household will not collect any single June, so it will continue to remain 0.87 lips single-tariff and two-tariff 0,95 lips, more tariffs and less than 0,46 along with the network, along with VAT. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then don't say it'll change the price of electricity for the household. As regards the economy, the majority of the economy should benefit or have a supply contract and will not change electricity prices or depend on date 1.4. As for the legal provisions, the guaranteed supply is only a transitional service that serves as a transition between two market suppliers to the economy and is intended to make the first two months cheaper and then if it does not select the supplier after 2 months, it still collects it because it makes it choose its supplier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135503	The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, I quote the media, this came out in the media on 27.3. Just like this, let's say you want to argue, I quote, it's been felt since the beginning of the year and it's been fueled by the rise in oil prices on the world market for oil derivatives on average by 10%. In doing so, petrol fuels have accumulated slightly more than diesel, so the gas tank has averaged about 50 kuna while the diesel tank needs to be allocated 40 kuna more than at the end of last year. Those are the facts I'm afraid of. And I'm afraid that any collection of energy then chainly pulls off the general collection, or we'd call inflation. That's not good, and if they're lying to the media, then I'm lying, too, but this isn't fake news, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135505	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about this report, it is not possible not to refer to the overall situation in the Republic of Croatia and to the issue of energy, energy production or energy supply of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is one of the strategic key issues that each country needs to provide. So on that side, our citizens with an interest in tracking down what's going on here today, they're probably going to transfer something to the media. And what I'm not satisfied with, and already today in the debate, it's been a great deal extended that certain investments are always being made across the back of citizens and certain things are being realized by the ruling coalition. In a specific case, it is about the collection of gas and electricity that will take place on April 1st, and I said the Zagreb family will spend 2 hundreds, 2 hundreds 50 kuna more on gas and probably a certain amount on electricity. So it's a hit on the citizens' pockets again. And now the man wonders if it's really necessary, is it really necessary to collect so much electricity and then look at the reports of HEP that are incredibly good for the first six months of this year? So when you look at a report that says something about revenue, it's just over six billion kuna and you get $1.17 billion. Which amounts to approximately 20% of the income. Ask your colleagues and colleagues who do so in the Republic of Croatia who can make such profit margins, profit margins of almost 20%. And then you can really legitimately ask yourself here, which is why it takes to collect the gas and electricity of 1.4. So I'm sorry, about the first semester of last year, not this year, but 2018. So in the first term of 2018, 1.17 billion kuna HEP earned profits. And that's why it takes, at the 4th month now, 1.4, to raise the prices of electricity and gas, and to get over our fellow citizens' backs. On the other hand, do we see any excessive investments in HEP? D, but something's going on, let's see, here's a colleague talking about investing in a renewable energy election. Are we achieving these plans and goals, which we have outlined by joining the EU? He would not mind that HEP invests in renewable energy elections big money, including citizens, if I could, like when I go to other EU countries, travel on some road and look around the house and at every other house or on every house, see small microsolares, where people are allowed to participate in electricity production, meet the quotas that the state has set before them, or, in front of their EU country, to receive subsidies from HEP to participate in this way in the whole system, etc. What do we see in Croatia? We don't see anything. We see a few big projects, mostly according to Dalmatia, when you're driving on the highway, but when you go around Croatia, you don't see anywhere that it has revived this form of involving a wide population of our citizens, to reduce the cost of electricity and electricity costs, and on the other hand, to help the country meet those quotas that we have and which the EU has put before us, that is, certain standards that we have agreed to. And that's the one, I'd say a European story that a lot of Croatia is thinking about, but unfortunately, from the government's position, it doesn't work at all. So I would like the HEP to direct this gain to citizens, to stimulate the installation of small solar plants, to reduce the costs of their electricity, and to, for example, to developed EU countries, such as Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium. So I'd like to put ourselves that way, as a state, as a state-owned company, which makes billions of kuna profits. So if, in the first six months of 2018, she made a profit of $1.17 billion, she probably made over 2 billion a year. Well, that's a lot of money. It's money that needs to be used in a smart way. And that is why the European story about energy is stories where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be involved, where they will be given subsidies to install solar plants and certain other products, i.e., appliances with which they can produce energy, where they will be subsidized, where they will be allowed to be smaller bills for energy and where they will be participated by both state and state companies, we are talking about Croatia's electricity and where we will eventually have a win-win situation. It's a European story. It is not a European story to peel skin from our fellow citizens and citizens and collect electricity from year to year and collect gas from year to year. It would have been much more quality if we had allowed people to subsidise at the annual level than we take hundreds of kunas to them, then, not us but the government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic takes hundreds of kunas at the annual level, regardless of what the HEP anyway achieves excellent job results as regards profit. Although there is still a huge space for savings in HEP itself. Believe me, there is so much intransparency in HEP itself about public procurement, about certain jobs, about things that are at one price today, five years ago were twice or a third of the lower prices obtained. Here, at this point, there is one contest, which speaks of building a heat battery, which 5 years ago as a tender was 30.40% for the same job less price. Well, it's not exactly inflation in Croatia that 40. 50% would be more expensive now than it was five years ago. But you know what it is? A company that is probably going to get a job, through which there are still certain cooperatives who will get a 100 million kuna job, that company would like to earn 40, 50% more. And then 5 years ago, you have to report for a tender, a commitment of 4, 5 items, and this year you have 4 and 5 pages of items that you have to meet in order to access the competition at all, and in the end, only one company will probably be able to meet the terms and conditions and thus we will pay a higher price and HEP will pay a higher price than it should. Such procedures in HEP are very much, non-transparent, where it can be cheaper, I'm sure, cheaper to do the job, thus cutting costs and then finally coming back to a more efficient business and cost reduction for our fellow citizens. So, when we talk, once again, about the European story in energy in Croatia, invest, HDZ gentlemen in citizens, subsidies, to invest in solars on their buildings, to reduce their electricity bills, to earn some more money, and for Croatia to meet the conditions ahead of it in view of renewable energy sources. It is a win-win situation and it is a European story that we advocate in the SDP, and I personally as a candidate on the SDP list for the European Parliament, and I think we should do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135507	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135508	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Maras, I think you've touched one real topic when we're talking about power supply, which is what the point of HEP is? Is the purpose of generating huge profits or is it the purpose of actually investing that generated profit and returning it to the citizens? Here, I've told you my personal example of antique electricity supply infrastructure. Well, it's really already, it's already bordering on security in Croatia in the 21st century. In Croatia and the EU. So my question would be any purpose of HEP? Retortically, all of us. If the purpose is to generate profit, if the purpose is to hire party listeners, then fulfill your mission. And if this is what I was talking about before, then we can't be satisfied with the role it has.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135509	The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135510	From HDZ and HNS visas, that's the point. What you said. To take care of people, to hire management, to have until yesterday, here, the combination of one of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, one of Mr. Milinovic's characters, who in the meantime became Mr. Plenkovic's, means that this is how he frames himself in HEP's administration, and it's normal that when he dominates it, then these topics that we're talking about here are not dominant at all. So, they're not important at all, people aren't even thinking about how to help our citizens, how to help the economy by investing in certain energy projects, they're just thinking about whether and how they're going to be in actual turmoil within the HDZ, to which they're going to bow to preserve their position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135511	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135512	Dear Representative Maras, you've been Minister for the time being and I'm interested in honest hearts, so without any conviction, what your experiences with the consciousness of the people working in the ministry were, did anyone even think about renewable energy sources, did you try anything and what reactions were simple to these attempts. I'm asking that to get a really wide picture of the state of consciousness of people in state institutions and how visionary they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135513	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135514	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, I always answer from the heart. So when we talk about this area, to get to know you a little bit about the areas of ministry work, my ministry wasn't directly responsible for it, energy was controlled by HNS, or Minister Vrdoljak, one of the pillars of the current ruling coalition of Andrej Plenkovic, but as regards renewable energy sources and all of that, from strategies that were done, unfortunately, part of it was already planted in 2007, 2008, 2009 in strategies that he and HDZ were doing at the time and then had to be corrected and changed, which does not mean that it can't be done if you're willing. So, one powerful interest group, in my opinion, directed it one way, in 2007, in 2009, during Eve Sanader, and it takes a lot of energy to correct it in relation to what, I think it needs RH at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135515	The next replica, respected MPs Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135516	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, I'll agree with you on two things. That in the energy sector and that there is room for improvements in terms of supervision and transparency of business and in others, that the hep's profit is such, the HEP group, so that part of it could be rerouted, of course, depending on the law, sublaws and their rules, but what I am interested in, if so far missed, to contribute to citizens, in terms of building solar panels, etc. in the sense that the Croatian state recognises this possibility or any government, why, let's say, when you were minister, you did not suggest to your fellow minister, whose portfolio it was, that Croatia would move in that direction. I'd like it to happen in due course, if it hasn't happened by now, but I'm curious as to why, say, it didn't go that way, and now you're suggesting it was a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135517	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135518	Listen, fellow Irene, if I were to tell you what I've been suggesting to the Vrdoljak, I probably wouldn't have had enough for half an hour. Since it was necessary to abolish mandatory membership in HGK, so when I wrote the law, the man stood on his last legs, we see, and why, after the term of office, his assistant went to work, not to mention other HNS and HDZ connections through the Chamber of Commerce, means, I can hardly explain to you at all what your experiences are now, given that Vrdoljak is now your pillar of power, or the power of Andrej Plenkovic, and has deceived the defacto voters when he crossed over with his representatives to support the current power, but what I can tell you so much I'm saying to Mr. Vrdoljak, but Vrdoljak has always done what is in his interest, not in the interest of Not in the interest of those I suggested. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135519	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135520	Thank you, Vice President. Dear citizens who are watching us you must know that colleagues from the SDP, colleagues from the Living Wall, colleagues from MOST, deceive you, do not tell you the truth when they tell you that with 1.4 they collect electricity. You'll be left with the exact same price of electricity you've had so far. All of you who have a HEP Elektra account will continue to pay £0.87 per tariff or if you have a double tariff of €0.95 for higher and €0.46 for lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135521	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135522	Thank you very much. That's where Mr. Totgergeli leads one, I'd say Donki Hodski against everyone in the Republic, so also against the media duel and against Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and against HEP, we're in opposition at least what it is, you don't have to convince us, you convince him that the gas won't pick up, and that the electricity doesn't need to be collected, that you were in Bjelovar the other day, that's where you were staring at him when he was making statements, you could whisper in his ear and say to Mr. Prime Minister, don't let the gas collect, this would be useful. Release the opposition here, the opposition will warn and you will not have to agree with us on this, agree with Prime Minister Plenkovic. So, unfortunately, ours, what you're saying It's not true, and it's going to happen. [[Intruder: Thank you]] The gathering and it would be good. [[Intruder: Thank you]] You warned him about that in Bjelovar, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. [[Agreement: Thank you fellow Maras]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135523	A colleague of Totgergeli's has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135524	He's injured 238, my colleague Maras insulted me because I'm not peeking, and he can't talk like that to one MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135525	Okay, I'm assessing that no injured Rules of Procedure, please let's not start with any injuries to the Rules of Procedure now because that doesn't make any sense. You insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135526	Thank you very much. 238, so this wasn't an insult to see Mr. Totgergeli, so [[/Intruder: What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?]] Why, he's a little lower, he's a little lower than Mr. Plenkovic, he just had to spread a little bit on his toes and see him near the camera, does that mean I don't see it as an insult, but as a fact? [[Intruder: It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you're saying now]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135527	Now, I'm going to give you a warning because the fact that someone is taller or lower, fatter or thinr, has hair or has no hair, wears a beard or doesn't wear a beard, is not relevant in this HS and it's ugly to talk about someone's physical characteristics, it's completely inappropriate and it's completely out of the context of why we're here. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure? I'll give you a warning if you abuse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135528	I don't abuse, so I didn't insult anyone, you've now insulted me by saying that I insulted someone. I wasn't saying anything at all, I was just saying it wasn't an insult, so I wasn't insulting anyone, no matter whether you had hair, no hair or had a beard, I was thinner, fatter, I wasn't talking about it at all, Mr. Vice President, I think you've totally missed the subject and try to chill out a little bit, so... You are now more, more of these descriptive gave [[I'm giving you a warning.]] You've given more descriptive these assessments [[/Intruder: You already have two warnings.]] but [[Intruder: Please have now passed and time...]] I can't, so when you're in my word, I can't even finish the sentence. [[Incursion:...you will get a reminder by subtracting words]] But you have broken it, so give yourselves a warning. [[Intruder: You can't because you're violating the Rules of Procedure]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: I'm giving you a reminder by taking away words by the end of the day]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135529	Please, nice. Now the next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Gotgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135530	Thank you, Vice President HS. Here today during the debate on HERA's 2017 report. We have heard unmistakable statements that the data from 2017 may now be more than a year away and not accurate, as if because it had been a year from 2017 to 2018, these data could now change for 2017. On the other hand, only if we're populists then we don't need the data and how fellow Djujic said in this debate today that it's quantum physics for us, quantum physics isn't at all a problem for us, maybe it's a problem for him, but here a man to say something, to compare, to talk about something, then he has to talk about something with data, and if you're just a populist thing, and it doesn't matter whether you prove it or not, then you don't really need it, and it's precisely based on the data in this report for 2017. It can be seen that the same claim here today that Hops is not investing enough in investments, that they have read these data that were written there during the 5th year, then it can be seen that Hops has invested more than in 2017, but in previous years, and this again is the data-based conclusion. They can also understand fellow Djujic that his data is that 30% more invested in investments related to his accession in 2017 compared to 2014. does not mean anything because in 2014 the SDP had power and created a country-wide political climate based on investment and in 2017 the HDZ created a social political climate based on investment, which is precisely the basis of this report and we can see that for new connections, 313 million were invested for new connections in 2017 and 2014. 219 million, if the social political climate hadn't changed then people wouldn't have invested in new investments so they couldn't even make new connections. We also heard that citizens are asking why they can't install their own solar cells or some other form of renewable energy for their own needs and join the network. And just in this assembly on 7 December 2018, we passed the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and very favourable for citizens who want to do so, a legal solution has been made which, on the basis of one year, sees consumption and production. And if the customer spends more than the supplier will just calculate the difference and charge what he delivered to the buyer. It's a month's reckoning period, but it's year-round. And those who thus produce do not have to exercise all those papers and paperwork that otherwise require privileged manufacturers, therefore it is a very good legal solution and it is the basis for people to start investing in such facilities. The decline in prices, for example, of solar cells on the market will contribute even more to people's decision on such investments. I must stress that HERA cannot control HEP, HERA is in charge of controlling only HOPS and HEP ODS because it is a transmission system supplier and a distribution system supplier, an operator, a pardon, and HEP behaves in the same way as all other suppliers and is operating on the market, and HERA cannot control whether it will invest more in production or less, it is a thing of the owner of HEP as any other electricity producer or other electricity supplier. For the end of the period considered, the price and purchase of electricity prices with 1.4, therefore, the price of electricity for households in universal supply, therefore the total price and supply of both the network and the VAT will not be changed by 1.4, the tariff system applicable from 1 January 2019 and the single-tariff system remains 0,87 kWh for the two-tariff system remains 0,95 lipa for the higher and 0,46 limes for the lower tariff. It is also possible to change the basis of the contract, not with a date of 1.4, or 1.4, for those who have contracts with their electricity suppliers. What only changes is the guaranteed supply that normally serves that if one customer interrupts the contract with his supplier for some reason, he can move on to another supplier, and it comes out to him that his first two months are lower, and if he doesn't make an effort to find a new supplier in those two months, then that price is still rising in order to force him to contract with the supplier because we decided to market model for electricity. And as for gas and gas purchases, so as far as the economy is concerned, prices will not change again from 1.4, nor is 1.4 important for the economy now, the shareholders negotiate with suppliers and the basis of that contract have a price, and here we are talking about a wholesale price, so the price that is defined for those suppliers that deliver it to the public and in fact legally protect the household that throughout the year they have the same price of gas regardless of how the price of gas changes on the market during the year. For example, during 2018, the price ranged from EUR 19 per MWh to EUR 30 per MWh, and even when it was EUR 30 per MWh did not change for households, because we protect them from having the same price all year round. The average price has increased by 20%, and we are now rising by 10%. It's HER's decision. Therefore, the total price of gas will eventually increase by 7% as the distribution part and services do not change again and change because the world market has increased the price of gas. Next year, if the global or European gas prices fall, HERA will decide to reduce it again 10% back to the price it was in 2018. Why 1.4, well because it's the beginning of the year when the contracts for the whole year are going to be about the gas. Here's so much from me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135531	Thank you very much, we have one replica, respected representatives of Petrijevcanin-Vukasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135532	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, one principled replica, means following this debate, of course, that this debate has been re-emerged in everything and everything, and this distinction between the CAPS and the ODS and HERE as their regulator and HEP, but I am sure that no one will actually be offended, but one part of the colleague has read this report again that has almost 200 pages and this whole debate has been partially and contaminated with some kind of untruth, lies, and part of the manipulation is also going to be again likely to be an opportunity to hear. You're trying to sort of explain to the citizens what this is about, but it's hard to fight this kind of manipulation. HERA has submitted her report in a way that we all get insight into what is important, not that we calmly take it to the knowledge but precisely for the reason that we try to fix where there is room for improvements and as we have seen there is space and it is wrong here interpreted the same thing among others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135533	Thank you for the response of Honorable Agent Totgergelia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135534	I agree with you, with everything you've said in your replica, here today on the one hand, we're pulsistic and we're sticking to it and on the other hand we're making fun of the data, the facts and the basis of the data and the fact that we're making conclusions. And now, once again, dear citizens, I'm sure your price of electricity at 1.4 will not change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135535	Another replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135536	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, in your debate, you've been referring to the data, and I think that's okay, and I'm always in favour of a constructive debate and discussion that's based, calling for numbers. However, it should also be said that our law currently in the drawer, the Heat Act, therefore concrete numbers say that the study has shown that the divisions, the installation of divisors, are invaluable. That's also the data. The data is also official that Maribor has more microsolars than the entire Republic of Croatia. It's also official data. Well, since you're already referring to the data, you're also commenting on this data.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135537	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135538	So we have few solar collectors, because the price of these collectors in terms of cost-effectiveness was high and it took a lot of subsidies to make it worth the while. And if we had listened to the data or watched the data from the report then we would have seen there in the report for 2017 that kWh, the price kWh, therefore paid subsidies, kWh is comparable for both the sun and the wind. kWh for solar power plants paid subsidies of 1.93 kuna per kWh for wind power plants 0,74 kuna per kWh. So that's comparable data again. As the price of solar collectors falls, so we will have exactly this way that we have legally solved the opportunity to build more on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135539	Thank you. Lastly, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the respected representative Sasa Djujic, is missing, losing his right to speak. We have one final word on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club and will be spoken by the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135540	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ representative said he would not collect electricity for citizens. But that's half true, the whole truth is that it's going to collect in part of the economic operators electricity by 20% to 30%. And now you ask yourself if you collect electricity for 20 or 30%, and it will be the citizens who will eventually have to pay the price of the purchase through more expensive products and services. This is a banal way for you to see how it's manipulated by the public. So the fact is, the electricity's picking up, but they say it doesn't add up for citizens, is it? Well, imagine they say that gas is not expensive for citizens but only for legal entities, even though it will collect for citizens, but who will then pay that higher price of gas that citizens, or legal entities, will have to pay for it again. So this government instead of improving the standard of living to find a cheaper way to supply energy and new sources of energy, green, we have a situation to push our LNG terminal. And HDZ MPs won't talk about the LNG terminal, they'll run away from that topic like the devil from the incense. They tell you God as if they'd have more supply routes. Whatever the more supply routes mean to you, citizens are interested in whether the gas will be more expensive or cheaper and with the LNG terminal that it has, the terminal itself is an enormous cost to the state and to distributors and that gas is more expensive than pipeline gas. So who's gonna pay the price of that more expensive gas? And I have warned here from this pay phone and I have spoken to people, if Croatia goes with LNG terminal into this project it will eventually collect gas. Many have mocked me and told me what you say, Mr. Pernar, is not true. Some even said that the LNG terminal would bring cheaper gas. Well, let's start by assuming that I'm lying and that I'm deluded, conscious or unconscious. Let's start by assuming that the LNG terminal really brings cheaper gas, so why does the price of gas accumulate for both citizens and businesses? And explain to me, maybe I'm stupid, dimwitted, limited, arrogant, vain, selfish, I don't want to understand, not to be taught, explain to me. If the gas from the terminal is cheaper LNG, then why does the price of gas accumulate? Now, you see, I claim that the construction of LNG terminals, the entry into that project exactly coincides with the collection of gas paid by citizens. And you, like this government, are giving citizens some kind of ridiculous savings, some kind of small raises, but then you cut them out, you cut them out through the piles and electricity and gas. The citizens of Zagreb pay too much water, what does the state do to reduce the price of water? Nothing, people have to be careful how they spend water, and we have water, we're rich in water resources. You're running a missed policy of my people and it's going to go all upside down, unfortunately, not only for citizens who support you, but for those who are against you, but they have to put up with you because you've managed to conclude most of the trade coalition with the CNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135541	Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135542	Thank you, Vice President. So, today we've heard a lot of statements here, and I respect each of the MPs, but countless statements that are unfounded, and if someone went to explain something to me that's good, I'd listen to it first, so I'd analyze it, but I wouldn't claim at any cost the opposite of what the facts say. And the fact is that no one in any way changes the price of electricity for the household. Likewise, there is no change in price for the economy. What changes is changing tariffs for guaranteed supply. What is guaranteed supply for? It serves as a possibility for an entrepreneur who lost a supplier to move from one supplier to another, so two tariffs were made on purpose and made, one worth the first two months, forced him, there it is cheaper, forced him to find a new supplier in those two months, if not found, after which the price is raised. What kind of entrepreneurs do that? So far, the price for guaranteed supply was cheaper than the price that suppliers could offer on the market, so there were entrepreneurs who deliberately broke off the supply contract and left the market in guaranteed and practically maliciously misused that guaranteed supply model and therefore changed those tariffs from 1.4. As far as gas is concerned, the LNG terminal has nothing to do with the gas price right now. You'd have connections if it were built, then you could help us maybe the price is lower because we'd have an alternative, and this way you can't possibly affect the price of gas. What makes the gas price change is because last year was the price higher by 20%, but we have made a legal solution that has protected our citizens all year round and all year they have had the same price of gas and so now and again the legal solution says that it cannot increase more than 10% wholesale, which ultimately means about 7% for the household and if the price on the European market is reduced next year, HERA will decide to reduce the price wholesale for distributors, and hence finally and for the household and that is what the facts are and that is what is true, and all of these are stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135543	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the rapporteur, the word will be taken by the esteemed Deputy President of the Governing Council of HERA Sonja Tomasic Škevin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135544	At first, I apologize for coming out of the Assembly, especially if I apologize to the honourable representative Pernar, but simply some things a man can't do in time. But I'll just briefly look back at some of what's been said in this home. First, HERA is responsible for the adoption of only prices to regulated entities, which are transmission and distribution system operators or gas transport system operators. What is competent in electricity is still and are the prices in the guaranteed supply of electricity that are, guaranteed supply, what is the guaranteed supply? That's interesting, guaranteed supply is one protection mechanism like any other, which, in Europe, is called... So when someone loses their supplier, then you don't run out of power supplies, you go to guaranteed supply, and you're safe there, you get electricity, but the price will be something more expensive because that supplier, the guaranteed supplier, doesn't know whether you're coming in today, tomorrow or the day after. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The prices under the law must be higher than the average market prices and HERA had to adopt a new methodology because the previous methodology had one shift in the price determination which was quite low and which was applicable at the time when the electricity prices on the markets were not variable. Therefore, the electricity price in the guaranteed supply is changed from 1.4, but only for those entrepreneurs located in the guaranteed supply and the intensity is that no one is in the guaranteed supply, but that each buyer in the Republic of Croatia has its supplier on the market without being in the guaranteed supply, that is, the safeguard mechanism. Secondly, the price of gas for households of 1.4 is the date when, that is, the technical date means that the storage year is changed so it is taken 1.4. not because it is such a first April or something like this unsaved joke. So the household will, the price of gas for households will collect an average of 6.9% in accordance with the HERE methodology because the elements in the gas price structure are located, you have reference gas, so the price of goods, you have the cost of distribution, the cost of gas supply. The reference gas price is calculated according to the price on the wholesale gas market, which is seen on the stock exchanges in Europe and which would be 20% higher if the HERE methodology does not limit the maximum change in the price of gas supply to 10%. And that's how the citizens of the household actually got a price increase, but on average only 7%. It also mentioned the general conditions of electricity supply I can say that HERA is working intensively on changes to the general conditions of electricity supply which will go into public debate and we expect both the contribution and the general public to be improved in terms such as the MPs have said. And only more about the plans were also discussed, HERA gives, HERA gives public discussion plans to the transmission system operator and the distribution system operator their plans, investment plans give, development give for public debate so that everyone can comment on it and HERA comments study and observe and monitor, monitor the implementation of the investment plans of both operators and transmission system and distribution system in Croatia. I thank you for the debate and HERA will follow all constructive proposals in the next report that will take place for 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135545	Thank you very much. That would end it, I would conclude the debate on this point, we would vote on it when the conditions come to an end, and we would move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135546	Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2017 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2017 The applicant is the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2017 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2017 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 90 for, 2 abstentions and 5 against the conclusion proposed by the parent board.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135547	So we'll move on to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z. No. 356 Proposer is the Representatives' Club of the Living Wall and SNAGE on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, the government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah, I guess that's what Branimir Bunjac wants because I see he came here for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135548	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have today, dear Secretary of State, before us today the proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is part of the law together with this law, is also the Foreign Affairs Act, which is the shortest said to abolish the currency clause. The currency clause should be abolished for reasons because it has caused numerous inconveniences and problems for Croatian citizens since most of them have loans with the clause, most often in the euro, and a large number of citizens over 100,000 took loans in CHF as well. This happened before the known recession in 2007 and 2008. They received these loans under very dubious conditions that are certainly well known to the public, but what is most important of all is that because of the change in the rate of the loan rate, they increased by about 50% to 60% and brought them into a situation that those loans, that citizens cannot repay those loans. Since they could not repay loans, many of them lost those things that caused the loan to be lifted, they were sometimes cars, but more often they were properties among which one significant part of the property represented the only home to families. Many of them came into a situation that literally did not have the means to exist, that sometimes they had to give all their receipts to pay off the loan war and the consequences were really so severe that some people got sick and even committed suicide. The scariest thing was that because of the change in course, people were paying off the loan without paying off the principal of the loan. And so many people who had loans at CHF spent 10 years regularly paying off the wars, and eventually the principal would be the same as on the day of the loan. This caused such terrible problems that several times the government itself had to intervene, the most important was the conversion of credit and CHF into EUR, which did not settle the debts that the citizens had suffered but put them in a less risky position. It is important to stress a less risky position because therefore loans in EUR are risky, so they depend on mechanisms outside Croatia, they are tied to many of them at European interest rates and today, if any new market disturbance occurs, if this increases the rate by just 5-10% or interest by 1 or 2 percentage points, it would again mean more war on citizens by 100 euros and maybe 200 euros. It certainly would lead them back to the situation if they couldn't finish their credit obligations. In addition, the currency clause also caused terrible problems in general in the economy and in society, as it primarily caused huge indifference. Individence in terms of the fact that citizens have lost chronically no money, because practically all the money in Croatia had to be tied to the euro. Thanks to the currency clause and the kuna bonding by the euro, Croatia has achieved a negative external trade balance of over 600 billion kuna or almost 4 state budgets in the past 15 years alone. All that time, the average middle course, the kuna according to the euro was practically at the same level. The currency clause has brought a huge deficit and also high unemployment which has been resolved in the worst possible way, meaning by banning the population from Croatia, very low wages, very low pensions, and the average growth, in independent Croatia, is reduced to about 1% annually. Croatia has fallen to only the bottom and we are better than Serbia, which is not even a member of European integration, which has been under trade sanctions for years. So the currency clause is actually a symbol of the denial of modern monetary policy, which turns our own capital abroad. The currency clause, a stable course, destroyed the processing industry, instead of production, introduced a renting economic policy, and the Croatian economy became, instead of export-oriented, highly import-dependent. The currency clause, therefore, is a problem at a wider level, because it is not allowed by the CNB and not even by the Government to carry out the devaluation, i.e. to introduce a real exchange rate, which would, in fact, share the risk of business, in such a way that one large part of that risk would have to be taken over by banks. So the currency clause actually protects financial institutions, not protects citizens. The policy of the Living Wall, i.e. the proposal of this law, requires that, at the very least, these risks be distributed to the benefit of citizens, not to the benefit of banks, which are 98% foreign-owned cases. Among other things, in Europe, it is now a trend not to pursue the euro, which is possible later, that the euro is not being introduced at all, and even those countries that have the opportunity to introduce the euro, and have not yet introduced it, fortunately, as the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria, do not want to introduce the euro, so they do not want it, although they have all the conditions. They have conditions, for example in the Czech Republic, the public debt is 32% compared to the Croatian 80s, there is exports tied to imports, unemployment amounts to unimaginable 2%, average salaries are higher than Croatia, however, the Czech Republic does not want and will not introduce a currency clause or the euro. Most importantly, it is important to note that the vast majority of citizens are against taking over foreign currencies. So the vast majority of citizens want all payments made in domestic currency. There are a whole series of examples, where this is simple, these protection mechanisms of the currency clause have been rejected and where this has done great good for the economy and you have, say, a case of Turkey, which even entered the G20 means from some country that was lagging behind, today it has practically become a power and in fact, it is seen that monetary, fiscal and any other modernity in the economy, in the hands of the good government, achieves much better effects than leaving these same tools to the other hands. Indeed, there are also MPs here who in principle support government policy, whether there is a greater symbol of state policy than their own currency, from our own National Bank, we have on our own bills, I don't know either Ante Staricevic and Ban Jelačić, and I don't know, Marko Marulić, etc. Are we going to throw away all that symbolism that we have to take over someone else's symbolism to take over other people's letters, other people's languages? The question is which each of us should think about when he thinks about this law. It is also very important to say that it was precisely the euro that caused the frequent recession in Croatia and that it had thrown on its knees a highly developed country, such as Greece, which is precisely because of the euro policy, because of the austerity policy, etc. In just 10 years, it has lost 30% of its economy's power, which is an unmarked case in European history, so in world history, it has never happened that a country would suffer such damage for the economy within such a short time. So what we can say here, among other things, is that not only do we undo the adverse consequences that have been caused by the previous effects of the currency clause, but we also prevent any instability in the future. So this is actually a preventive measure. Prevention is an ideal thing if someone has enough reason and will to act preventively. It's very bad when governments, when institutions act on a post-factum, mean when they take fire measures, when the damage has already been done and then they're just trying to sort out some losses. Here, I wouldn't owe too much now, given that really only 5 MPs, 6 sorry, right now in the hall, but here's the [[Intruder: No, we're not on the payroll, you can't continue, you haven't checked in, you can talk further to your colleague Bunjac by the end]] [[You can't hear the intrusion from the assembly.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135549	You didn't sign up for the speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135550	It says the law on behalf of the proposer will explain the three representatives of the Living Wall, correct or incorrect?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135551	That's right, and a colleague of Bunjac signed up on behalf of the MPs' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135552	No, I signed up on behalf of the counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135553	He has a right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135554	I signed up on behalf of the MPs' club. We're all on behalf of the promoter, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135555	You're listed as possible speakers and as speaker, a colleague of Bunjac signed up, so you can't stand up all of a sudden and say I'd be talking now. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135556	And then I can end it for a little while now, so let's see if we can figure out what the echoes are going to be like in the opening statements, and then eventually we'll answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135557	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yes, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear MPs and MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the draft Act amending the Law on Mandatory Relations of the Proposers of the Living Wall and the SNAGA of HS. The bill is not acceptable for several reasons. The settlement of the currency clause depends on the will and choice of the parties. The currency clause in credit relations is, among other things, the consequence of the fact that most of the savings and hand-to-hand deposits in banks are in foreign currency, mostly in the euro, almost 60% of the total deposits in the banking system are in foreign currency and in the smaller part with the currency clause. The bill could create serious systemic risks, reduce availability and increase credit prices and retroactively burden consumers, but also all other persons because the proposed changes would affect all addressees, not only consumers. The possibility of contracting a currency clause exists equally for all entities and applies to all civil legal, commercial and consumer contracts. The proposal for a law could create serious legal doubts as it does not contain a provision which would prescribe that all monetary obligations, regardless of the currency in which they are expressed, are subject to the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations in the interest section, resulting in legal gaps in terms of interest on financial liabilities legally expressed in foreign currency at the time of the contract, which would lead to legal uncertainty and open the possibility of a number of judicial proceedings, and leave the settlement of this issue exclusively to judicial practice. Consumers in residential loans have the possibility of free conversion of EUR credit into kuna. Law on residential consumer lending published in the National Journal of the European Union No. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. In particular, it should be reminded of the strategy for the accession of the euro area of the Republic of Croatia, which will eliminate the exchange rate risk associated with borrowing in the euro. Following all this short-listed, we propose HS not to accept the proposed law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135559	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135560	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the issue of savings in foreign currencies and loans or loans with a currency clause is two separate issues, not one combined. Government official Mr. Salapic is trying to impose the the thesis that the reason, one of the reasons why loans have a currency clause is that many deposits are in foreign currencies, so it would be consistent with such thinking, if loans are given from these deposits, logically they will be tied to foreign currency. However, this false assumption i.e. This false thesis comes from a false assumption, and the false assumption is that loans come from deposits. In banking, it is clear to all and everyone knows that loans are not made from deposits, but deposits from loans or that the issue of loans creates money that will later be converted into deposits. The main and simplest argument to separate the exchange-saving process from foreign currency loans is the example of Yugoslavia. So in Yugoslavia there was a foreign exchange savings, you could if you had 200.00 DEM or 1,000,00 DEM or 10,000,00 DEM put them in your bank account. However, if the bank gave further loans, the bank would not lend loans from these marks, but would lend money from the National Bank of Yugoslavia, dinars and give you dinars further. So it's possible to have a monetary system where banks when they want to lend loans simply to kunas from the CNB and these kunas place them further on to citizens. And as for foreign exchange funds, if they need them great, if they don't need their stuff, someone else will need it, someone else will be happy to take it. And I have to point out on this occasion that the interest on the foreign exchanges that are being held in the bank is below 0.5%, below 0.5% of my people, annually. And the interest that banks make on loans is between 5% and 11%. Which means the interest is 10 to 20 times the interest on savings. And in this system, the banks are making enormous profits. The objective of the Living Wall is to hit that loan shark in her heart. The objective of the Living Wall is to abolish the currency clause. And today, by proposing to amend the foreign exchange law, i.e. mandatory relations, I prohibit the application of the currency clause to loans. And I'm explaining once again that removing the currency clause on loans doesn't mean abolishing foreign exchange savings, people will still be able to save in foreign exchanges like they did before the '90s. However, various interesting lobbies instead of going towards Croatia's monetary sovereignty, towards Kunisation, thus showing their patriotism and Croatianism. They decided to keep the external feature of Croatia, these are Croatian flags and patriotic songs, holding hands on the heart but gave up its power, or be, and its essence is its own currency. And instead of us removing the currency clause on loans, the government plan is to end full as a currency. It's a program of patriotic HDZ, and it's a policy we're fighting against with our hands and feet, and that's what we're breaking out of the Living Wall here today from the pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135561	We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135562	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar, I'm usually committed to saving and borrowing in the currency in which you earn. So, if you're making money in kunas, then you save and you raise credit in kunas and that's some golden rule. So you know what else is wrong with this currency clause? A man takes credit, for example. In euros, he raises 100,000 euros, he doesn't get euro, he gets kunas. So the bank takes away 100,000 euros from him to give him credit, then takes part of his exchange rate, pays him in kunas, and he returns the war every month in kunas, and they account for some exchange rate difference in kunas. So people are in charge of some kind of foreign exchange and currency, and they don't even see them, they don't see them at all. And that's why that currency clause isn't good. And on the other hand, we have EU countries, for example. England, which is now in Brexit, I've been up there, you upstairs hotel, for example. You can only pay in pounds and you have to go change at an unfavourable rate from the euro to the pound and you cannot pay in the euro even though they are part of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135563	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135564	Your Honor, you have well noticed this system is a fraud because the bank not only binds your credit with the currency clause but you, when you return it, do not return the credit in euro even though in theory you received in euro but you actually get credit and return in kunas and each time you do it at an unfavourable rate for you. And the bank's been cutting you off all the time at that game with the course. I explained that interest on credit is 10 to 20 times higher than on deposits but banks are not enough either, Mr. Djujic. It is one system that will draw 4 billion kunas from Croatia this year that they achieved last year. And in Croatia there will be a hole of 4 billion kunas of money that has actually been thrown out of our circulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135565	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135566	Thank you very much. Representative Pernar, you mentioned one very interesting thing, which is that the banking margins on EU territory are the most in Croatia. So anywhere in the banking margin, which is the margin, the interest on credit minus the profit given on the savings is not as much expressed as in Croatia. And indeed, if you are a banker today, a foreign banker is much more worthwhile to you to have a bank in Croatia than to say in Germany or France. Croatia is the real route to El Dorado for bankers, and it is they who will be here for every euro they give the most. And who's to blame? It is guilty of this subjective policy which does not allow the kuna to become what should therefore be a national currency with a long-term perspective, i.e. with a permanent perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135567	Dear Representative Bunjac, many in HDZ say that they are patriots and that they love this country, but they take away our sovereignty, they take away legislation, they want to abolish our currency, they also take away our monetary sovereignty, and therefore fiscal sovereignty, because if the euro is introduced in Croatia, we will need the European Commission's permission for our budget. So we can't even budget without the green light from Brussels anymore. Our move is state-owned, our move is our law that we propose is brave and he's one move ahead of time, he's a visionary move. But from the perspective of our society's needs, this move should have been made long ago in Croatia, and as far as I'm concerned, the CNB should never have been turned into a currency exchange office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135568	Now, on behalf of the Advocacy Club, the distinguished representative, Dragica Vranjš, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135569	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the very well-respected Proposer, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, a representative of the government. I must at the beginning here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, assert, that the Wall lives in this proposal and in a lot of debates that it says, that it is excellently detecting the problem. I can't say that the exact time of the crisis of people was a currency clause, especially the risk, which they received with it, and unfortunately, as a colleague said, there were both suspicious conditions and suspicious loans of RBA cooperatives and we all realized that this problem was very large in the Republic. If we were to solve this problem symbolically, as our colleague Bunjac said, then it might indeed be symbolic to accept this law with this one amendment, and it would be very nice if we had specifically retroactively solved all these problems by abolishing the currency clause. But unfortunately, that's not how it goes into one extreme, which I don't know, let's say we often see in agriculture. When television, especially before, is said to have increased the price of corn, then next year, everyone starts producing corn, and in the Republic of Croatia, that historical trend towards foreign exchanges, is caused by experience of inflation and numerous devaluations in the past, and when you say you represent most of the citizens, I would like it to be so. Here, I am the same attitude, that it would be best, as fellow Djujic said, if we earn kunas, borrow in kuna, spend in kuna, but basically data says that 60% of citizens do not behave and on the other hand we have a situation that, especially our club, certain groups from this area, along the sea, are asking to allow and pay in euro for the tourist season and tourism and we cannot say that if we say we should just borrow in kunas, we should cancel the currency clause, that we represent most of them, because then citizens who do come, in principle all say that we should be patriotic and use our own national currency, they do not. And then, with these kind of changes, we can cause a problem. On the other hand, if we comment on the general Law on Mandatory Relations, which is in principle dissuasive, it does not stipulate that something must, but leaves it as a possibility. And in this case, given that and the way in which this article is proposed, that and the government has made it clear, that it does not comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that it goes retroactively and that it misread certain provisions, it is not possible to implement it at all, it is not clear in which way it does not want to be implemented, even if we took what our colleague said in front of the promoter, in front of the Living Wall that everything is true, it is not possible to implement it. Of course, it can be further discussed or explained or not, but we believe that this article is not good enough to be further elaborated. So we need to distinguish three things. Yes, of course, because of the crisis, a certain part of the citizens has been questioned... They came into trouble so maintaining their existence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also have a currency clause problem, which, of course, when these exchange rate disorders were very unfortunate to people who had loans in the currency clause, and also to the biggest problem that we think we should all fight against it, and these are the illegalities of certain banks. Because removing the currency clause won't solve all the problems of this world and of course we're the most angry about these illegalities. On the other hand, one part of the problem, which may be said to address this law, is solved by the Law on Housing Consumer Credit, where conversion is allowed. So on behalf of the club, we can't accept this law, but we support all the detected problems that the Living Wall has brought out here, but we don't think this is a solution for a number of reasons that we have cited, which are legal nature and which can make even greater problems for our citizens. If these were masquerade and we were looking for a tree, the currency clause of its burning would certainly be top-notch and it would pass on to mascara, but it cannot pass in the Croatian Parliament and cannot pass as a legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135570	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135571	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to refer briefly to the presentation of Agent Vranjesh. You didn't need this last sentence, really, but I wouldn't get into it. I'd like to answer some of these things you mentioned, specifically. First thing, you say the euro should be introduced, because tourist workers on the Adriatic say that people come with the euro. Okay, what about when we introduce the euro, then people will come in with dollars, so we'll have to bring in dollars with the euro or come in with rupees, come in with forints, and then it'll be hard for them to change again, so this one, it's not an argument, it's simply, someone's comotion or simplification is not an argument for state policy. Another thing when we talk about the currency clause, imagine the fact that you as a citizen get 20 thousand euros in kunas in bank but you can't buy 20 thousand euros with that money. You can't buy 20 thousand euros in kunas, you can't buy 20 thousand euros, because they gave you these loans at the average rate, and you'll have to buy euro at the sales rate and you'll already be lost, I don't know 300-500 euros, so where, so on. So that's what it's called again, the winning bank, you don't get the right amount. Now imagine, I don't know hundreds of thousands of credits of just a margin of banks in this matter. Is this a question that you seek about retroactiveness, we put in the bill, that retroactiveness is gone. We have brought this into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which clearly states that retroactiveness, if a contract has been completed, has expired since all loans in the currency clause are currently under way, cannot be retroactive. So it's not a done deal that we would now apply retroactivity to something that's dead, no, we're applying to something that's alive, what's still going on, it's in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, not with what the Living Wall's saying. And I repeat once again, all countries, many countries that have their own national currency, have developed their own economy. Asian countries, all have their currency, have passed over European countries according to their budgets, etc. The EURo caused terrible problems, both in Spain and Italy, both in Greece and in many countries, and in Slovenia where it was introduced. There were higher prices, the citizens were poor, there was a demographic disaster, etc. Take an example of one South Korea, South Korea gives 1300 won per EUR, means it gives a ton of money for 1 EUR, but South Korea today has a bigger budget than Russia, a bigger budget than Russia, so you can imagine what it means when the economy is set up by export orientation. We have more Korean products in the Republic of Croatia today than I do not know, Hungarian, do they buy I don't know Kia, Samsung, and now I don't count. Its own currency allows you to focus on exports, and the currency clause and foreign currency, meaning the currency dictated by someone from outside, force the economy, redirect it to imports, and that's what's not good. RH simply move around, look how many companies have failed, look at these unfortunate shipyards, Agrokor, so we don't count any further banks, we've lost everything we've had. Do you think the currency clause in any way contributed to it or not? Why don't we start solving problems? You say Live Wall all simplifies as on masquerade, but statistics are inexorable, but it's already seen today by layman, let alone by an economic expert. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135572	The Republic has a respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135573	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, I am for the introduction of the EUR, but not quickly, not immediately and not overnight, but when the Republic of Croatia is ready and as soon as later as we see something. And when we talk about tourism, then what people who live in the coast want from us is the possibility of paying in foreign currency, in EUR, in dollars, etc., that does not mean introducing that currency as official. You in Hungary can pay and prices are highlighted in forint and in EUR, set that the thesis that can only be, and we are a tourist country, paying only in one currency is like saying that no one on the Adriatic should speak English or any other foreign language, but only in Croatian and you don't care that tourists come here. So, it has to be made possible, but it's allowed legally for someone who works on the Adriatic in a trade, to have EUR-o in the cash register, not for tax inspection to come to him, and to punish him because he has some currency that's not prescribed and that's it, to allow people to receive all the currencies, but I would separate it with this story about the currency clause. It has nothing to do with each other. [[Employer: The Answer of the Honored Representative of the Bunjc]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135574	Thank you very much, MP Djujic, so we agree that in some situations it is necessary to allow payment in foreign currency, but not to justify the abolition of its own currency by paying foreign currency, so we already have at the end of the payment in EUR, you have on highways. So, you can always write one on the highway in kunas, you can pay in EUR, foreign citizens can pay and it's okay if someone currently doesn't have a kuna that just came in 5 minutes ago in the Republic of Croatia, why not, but not now talk because tourists come to the Republic of Croatia we have to give up kuna, and then we have EUR-o. As for the very introduction of the EUR mentioned in your first sentence, we need to bring income closer to our income to the European economy so that we can introduce the EURo, and we currently have incomes up to 3 times lower than the countries of the centre in the EU. [[/Intruder: There is also a respected representative of Vranjš, here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135575	Thank you. Here I would just like to correct you, you said that I said something, I'm not saying that I'm saying something, but you're saying that most citizens are thinking something, and we have examples in practice that they don't think it. By abolishing the currency clause itself, you cannot solve the problems that have arisen in the past, and each, since it is a dispositive provision, each has the option to choose whether a loan in kunas or whether a loan in euro or in another currency that is linked or whether a loan that is tied to a currency clause, so that when we ask the citizens and who come, they do not want that possibility to be avoided that they no longer exist, so they want to choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135576	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135577	Thank you very much, MP Vranješ, so when I talk about what citizens think I refer to official statistics coming from the EU, among other things, one statistics on party ratings for the upcoming elections has been published today. So it is clear there that about 61% of Croatian citizens oppose the introduction of the EUR with an upcoming trend. In the Czech Republic, only 13% of citizens want the EUR, and in Italy, Spain, even in Austria, they are discussing exiting the euro, so the citizens there would even be ready to leave the EU because they have simply come into an impossible situation. Finally, there was a referendum in Greece when Cipro came to power in which they defacted him to leave the entire EU, not just the euro as a currency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135578	Next on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Pernar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135579	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the credit system is functioning as the father of the Soprano family has explained in his time. He said the money goes up, not to say what goes down and to these bankers who made more than 4 billion kunas last year and who will draw 4 billion kunas and out of Croatia, this system suits them. I'll explain why it suits them. Here's Mr. Sladolev, I'm asking you, by any chance, to buy something for 5 kuna and sell for 20, you'd have to pay a tax on extra value or for profit whatever it is. At the very least, VAT should be paid. However, when the bank gives someone a savings interest of 0.5% or less per year and then let's set up a theory even though it's wrong that from this savings that a loan per interest of 5 to 10% means 10 to 20 times the amount of VAT that you think Mr. Sladolev pays? Zero. So the banks aren't in the VAT system, you guys know that? Do you know that banks, banks that give credit under 10 times the interest or 20 than give money savings don't pay VAT? And now what, it's a huge hunt, it's billions, you're aware of that yourself because you're all aware of the amount of total credit and how many deposits there are, etc. And now, can the tax administration go to the bank and say, "Look, gentlemen, you give us the VAT." He can't, so the bank doesn't have to be fiscalized, there's no fiscalization. But imagine that a lady who is some kind of inspector and works here with us in the Parliament, unfortunately the camera never shows it, imagine that she has a case in the market to sell the corn sugar she got somewhere she has to have a fiscal cash register, has to pay the VAT. Now I'm asking, are we all fools and bankers smart? Are we all stupid so we all pay VAT and bankers who make a difference in interest from 10 to 20 times they don't pay VAT and they make enormous profits, a couple of banks make enormous figures and we all make change and we pay VAT for that change. Here, Mr. Salapic, you ask yourself. Imagine that you give credits with 10% interest and savings when people give you 0.5%, 20 times smaller, and that you don't have to pay any tax on it, and let's say Mr. Sladolev, he sells at the chicken fair, he has to pay the VAT. So where's the healthy logic? And you're going to see one thing, you're going to see that banks are getting richer and that people are getting poorer, you're going to see the process of disassemblying society, you're going to see the process of so-called. silent euthanasias of society and you will see the process of centralization of power and centralization of government. Because in Croatia and in the EU, there is neither the Croatian Parliament nor the European Parliament nor the banks, those who have capital, they are the real rulers of Croatia and the EU and America, and that is the most terrible thing. So those who own the U.S. Federal Reserve are the owners of the dollar and the one who owns the dollar, he owns America. One who has a monopoly on the creation of money in the EU, which is private banks, the state cannot broadcast money or private persons, only through private banks can money from the European Central Bank, and these private banks have power in the EU. And how does the system work? I'll explain it to you, Mr. Salapic, but you'll understand how much a thief's system is. So the owners of the European Central Bank are euro area Member States, so all the countries that have the euro according to their share in the value of that money have shares in the European Central Bank. However, can Portugal, for example, get money directly from the European Central Bank at a interest of 0.2% or 0% as much as they can get from business banks? He can't. Portugal may obtain money from the European Central Bank only through private banks. And what's going on? A private bank borrows money from the European Central Bank for, say, 0.2% interest, and then borrows that same money to the state of Portugal by 4% interest, so 20 times higher, imagine which transaction. So private banks in the EU are Member States' interest in money from their own central banks and still do not have to pay value added tax. And I want to tell you that this thieving system isn't just about citizens, it's turned against you and you in this situation have some position of the Justice Department, but the first time you no longer need to fly out. And then what happens? Then you will find yourself in a situation where you must share the fate of all other people who must survive in this system. Oh, yeah, that's terrible. And I don't want to be elected back to Parliament tomorrow. I'd be in the same shoes if the citizens say what this Pernar is saying. I won't vote for him. I'll vote for Ivo Sanader or some Karamark or Plenkovic. And I also found myself then as one foot says on the street, as you do in case Plenkovic is no longer needed. And the question is, how are the two of us gonna live? We're going to have to live in this slave system, it's that survival struggle where banks make billions and we barely raise money. And I call on you to expand your awareness of the way the monetary system works with loans enslaves the state by state, deprives it of property, raises taxes, introduces and taxes on real estate, etc. Because if you don't raise people's awareness about it, tomorrow and no one's position is eternal, neither mine nor yours and you and I are going to find ourselves in a situation where we citizens are actually those at the bottom of the pyramid of power and we don't decide on anything and morsels us, and the bankers have everything and they paralyze at our work. Because unlike you, you do some real work, you have to come to work there, you have to do something concrete, you're asked for the result of your work, some work needs to be done, and banks don't do any work. Banks don't create any new values, banks are institutions like casinos where only chips of what, they just replace chips and just spin chips in circles, it's no real business. And they instead of the banking system serving the rest of the economy, it would be a normal system, so in the South there used to be. We have a situation where the economy serves the bank, the economy serves the banks, and Mr. Salapic, I don't know because you have some credit, but you know if you can't get the credit back that's waiting for you. The bank has a million ways to secure credit ratings. One is that interest is 10 to 20 times higher on loans than on savings, it's an enormous profit. The second is that they don't have to pay VAT on the profits they make by issuing the loan. The third thing doesn't even have to have fiscal registers, it's the same extenuating benefit for them. The fourth thing is they're asking for a mortgage if you're taking a loan from them. And they'll stick to that, and they'll stick to your currency clause. And then he says here we are now in a fair and fair market game. So is it a fair and fair competition or is it a game where the only losers can be you and me, Mr. Salapic, Mr. Sladolev and Mr. Sasa Djujic, and bankers can never be losers. And even Knight Reiner can be a loser in that game, but the bank will never be a loser. And imagine my people agreeing with each other and the government and the opposition, let's get this banking system out of control, let's just say, let's say this partying of all we have, let's put the axes buried and let's fight this system together and against the media that maintain this system in power. The media that walks across corpses, the media who are willing to crush anyone for anything. Because this system treats each and every one of us as expendable goods, Mr. Salapic, Mr. Sladolev, the esteemed Knights of Reiner, the esteemed Mr. Djujic, we are all expendable goods. And this system can crush us all and throw us out. And today we're here, tomorrow we're on the road. But we have an opportunity to change the system in a way that even though we find ourselves on the road that we can live normally, in a picturesque way. So, even if we weren't in the assembly, even if you weren't in office at the Justice Department, even if Mr. Rainer wasn't vice president, we could live normally. But this system of bankers that choked the economy, which is a bloodsucker, which has drained money from our country, which only takes more than 35 billion kunas from Croatia on a government debt scale annually, that system makes the moment we leave the assembly that, yes, we have to literally fight for a naked life, for a naked existence. And what is happening, these media that are controlled by these banks, will the media, Mr. Salapic, tell you why Croatia is in trouble and that the banks have broken out 4 billion kunas from the optics to the contingencies, the problem in Croatia that 35 billion kuna is going to pay off external debt annually? Or will he say no, the problem is Mr. Salapic what he has the car driver, pay he is the problem, Pernar is the problem, Reiner is the problem, Sladoljev is the problem, Đujic is the problem. And all of us together doing so-called. We don't even get 2%, 3% compared to how much foreign creditors get. But the media will never tell the citizens, the people are the problem with these banks that are scrawning us, not but they'll tell you to get caught in the assembly, look at Salapic as he got caught, look at Pernar as he got caught. And why, because the bankers are their owners, the bankers control the media, and the bankers actually bully people at us, bullying people at us. Why? Because they know that as long as people with hatred and envy look at us, they won't look at them drawing billions. It's the whole game and in this whole game media and bankers actually make fools of the unhappy people they rob and of us who are legislators, who are actually to repay these enormous loans, to keep this system alive, credits, forced to actually lead an ever bigger and more difficult impose on people as time passes. I think it's high time to rebel against the new world order, against that pyramid of power at which the all-seeing eye, against the secret societies that keep us in slavery. And I know that you may not make a decision today to rebel against that system, Mr. Salapic, I believe that you will probably still support this system today, but I only have one request for you, one day when you may no longer be in the position where you are, remember this speech and tell the public, Pernar told me the truth, and that is true people, listen to this man as he tells you. And that's what I want to tell them about Mr. Sladoev and Djujic that we've been forced to fight each other and fight. And I'm even against Mr. Renore. And we're not real enemies to each other, real enemies to us are bankers, and these bankers are really pushing us, conflicting and fostering our mutual conflict, instead of us uniting ourselves together against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135580	Thank you. A respected representative of Sasa Djujic reported for an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135581	Thank you, Vice President. It's hard to say after this, but I want to say a few things, so in his speech, my colleague Pernar said that they are the real rulers of the world, and so is the Croatian Bank, and that banks actually manage everything, so I can't agree with it. So now I'm going to say why. Whether we are or we are not, but as a legislator and a government that proposes laws, we cannot, but we should be the rulers of our country. I'm going to give you an example, so we're passing laws, and we who make laws, we can manage processes in our society and in our environment. Here's what I'm going to say when the Swiss case broke out and when people got into trouble because they were taking mass loans, which de facto banko forced them to, so the banks and that's the fact that banks make enormous profits and enormous profits, people just sometimes had no choice, they would come into the bank, they would ask for credit. Then the bank would tell them, look, you don't have the terms of credit in kunas, you're not solvent, you don't even have the conditions for the euro, but, look, we have a great credit in Swiss. And then they would raise a loan in Swiss, which would not see a Swiss franc at all, but would cost it, I said in the replica, they would get a loan in kuna, the calculation of some exchange rate difference they had to pay back in kunas and in general after 5-10 years of return, through a variable interest and through a exchange rate difference, it turns out that after 5 or 10 years of returning the loan they eventually owe again equally or even more than what they owed. But in such situations, when the crisis with the Swiss fan has escalated, here I will remind the decisions of the former government of Zoran Milanovic, who made some decisions to protect those citizens. So the first decision she made was the fixation of Swiss fanac courses and the second thing was the conversion of credit to Swiss fans in kuna. And then there was a huge blow from the banking system to that government. At that time, the government of Zoran Milanovic was threatened to sue the state, that the state would have to return, pay all its decisions, and enormous pressure had been made to keep the laws from being passed. But the government, which I think was state-owned, was not a servant and was not, she listened to the instructions from the Bruxella she received, but was working in the interest of her citizens making certain decisions, which had not completely solved the problems of the citizens, but had stopped their day-to-day collapse and the agony in which people had found themselves. They gave them that, let's say, air and wind, some in the back. Many have managed to get away with it. What do we see today 4-5 years after that? Are the banks suing the state? Some did, did they get the disputes? No, they're not. They won't even get them, because the state has tools. So that's how the state should be set up towards banks and all teams, who think they're some power centers. Okay, sue the state, but we can bring the law here, so we're gonna hit you with a tax on that profit. So the state has power, and the power of state law can be pressed, okay, sue, you'll pay, so now see if it's worth it or not worth it. And because of this, however, banks were a little afraid at that point by the same government of Zoran Milanovic and officials not to do what they did, but ultimately they did in the citizens' interest what they thought was best and I think that's good. We have five years behind that, the situation, that the state has not paid any damages. So this is an example of how responsible the government can manage certain problems and how it can resist, all these banking lobbys and money and all those who are doing something at the expense of citizens. The second thing, when it was said here that citizens should be allowed to borrow credit in all currencies, because that people want it, because that's where I don't agree, people don't want to borrow themselves into more currencies, people want the lowest interest, the most favourable credit, that they can buy an apartment, that they can buy, I don't know, a car for someone who needs or doesn't know, who our Vice President, Millian Brkić Harly Davidson, for 230 thousand kuna, because it's some dream of his, and that's okay. The man took out a loan and he certainly wants a loan that is favourable, he doesn't care if it's a loan in the euro, kuna or Swiss franc, but who's going to have the lowest interest and that engine, worth 230 thousand kuna, ultimately he doesn't pay 280 thousand kuna, but possibly 240-245. So that's what our citizens are interested in, regardless of whether they're officials or people who are doing some less paid job or some other job, they're interested in equal terms and the equal chance that they can live normally in this life that's not too long, so some of them raise a 30-40-year-old loan, they're in debt, but we're constantly examples of mocking the system. Here, we have this incentive measure, encouraging housing, where the state repays half the loans to young people who buy an apartment. And how, whenever these loans go, the cost of the apartments goes up. And then the prices of the apartments go up, and suddenly you can't buy that many squares anymore, and suddenly it explodes, instead of the state, and it regulates some things. Because there's obviously something in that system where you help, and basically that you helped doesn't end up in the pocket of those who are meant for it, citizens, but just those who trade with it, banks and some big players who have a lot of money anyway have too much. So these are the things we should talk about and the things that are good to talk about. I'm thinking that the state can always stand on foreign people and that it can be dealt with with, let's call powerful centres that have a lot of money, if that's what it wants and if it has a government and a government that has the power to do it, that has the strength to get into a trinket with it. So here's the few things I wanted to say and it's really abnormal, it's abnormal that you have savings and that you get half a percent interest a year and you can't get a loan in Croatia I don't know below 4% if it's a residential or below 6% interest if it's a consumer, so it's 10 times more like me illogical things, and that's, say, a situation that the state might need to regulate and not that the state can encourage you to save and then the bank takes it through its profits because it raises interest or some realtor raises the price of squares so you can't buy an apartment in Zagreb anymore I don't know under 2,000 euros and I don't know that somewhere in Remetinac and stuff like that. So, that's the thing that when the state gives an incentive that it should then ensure that this incentive is true and as it should be. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135582	We have a replica of Honorable Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135583	Dear Representative Djujic, so don't support the system, so don't say that we rule politicians and not bankers when you know that the state can't come directly from the CNB to the money. You know that the only way the state can get the money is with a loan from the business banks, not from the CNB. Now the question is, does the state need money, yes or no? Yeah. And then there's the question that asks Napoleon Bonaparte for his time, is the hand that gives above the hand that receives. Is the state dependent on the money of a business bank or a business bank depending on the money of a state? It is clear, sir, that the system is set up in a way that the state is in a dependent position and that banks can blackmail the state or that de facto they are the ones who rule and not us who are in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135584	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135585	I'm telling you again, I disagree. So the state is as strong as its power, or rulers. I tell you the situation where Milanovic's government fixed the course of the Swiss franc and passed the Law on Conversion. If our government had been under a lot of pressure from the banks who threatened to sue, who were threatening not to give what you say again, they wouldn't give the state money or credit if they insisted on that law. Now, look, I don't know if some in today's situation would have been broken in front of it, but I know that our government insisted on it, that it hadn't permanently solved the problem, but that many people who had credit problems in the Swiss franc gave air, gave them that they could breathe and not capitulate until the end, despite bank pressures. So that's an example for you when you have a state government that's not afraid of anyone and is willing to resist someone, regardless of what the centers are big and what the pressures can resist if they want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135586	Now the Honorable Representative Ivan Pernar will speak finally on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135587	Dear Representative Djujic, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately there is no colleague, the part where members of HDZ are completely empty, I pay deep respect to Mr. Sladoljev, who is the only representative here in the central area and you, Mr. Djujic, is currently only three of us. with Mr. Reiner, who, by force, must be here because someone must sit here in his place. [[I'm from HDZ, too.]] I want to tell you that it's private banks that have the power. You say Mr. Djujic that the government of Zoran Milanovic has otherwise fixed the course of the franc, but whether it fixed it at that beginning level or at a level higher than it is, that's the question. If people took 4.5 kunas per year for francs, whether loans were returned to $ 4.5 or dropped to type 6.2 kuna, that's the question. And as far as I know, it's not back to 4.5 kuna. The second thing, about the return, about the return of the overpaid interest. You still know that the verdict of the final Supreme Court has not been passed and that the banks don't really want to repay the debtors all the money that's been overpaid. And that's actually a system that protects banks. But to explain who really writes the laws, I'm going to give you a simple example, Mr. Djujic. Do you know how much money the state spent in resuscitating banks with an enormous amount of money? I think if I remember correctly about 30 billion kuna is invested in the rehabilitation of the Croatian Bank's financial system. And then the question arises: how many states or how many states did the bank sell for? Here's a simple question, how much the state has spent on rehab, how much she's sold them for. And in the law when privatised, the banking system asked in the initial proposal that those buying these banks must return to the state the cost that the state invested in their capitalisation or in their resolution. However, that article was when the vote was voted, or when the vote disappeared. You understand, Mr. Djujic, what happened? So instead of those who got big capital for small money to pay back the money that the state got rid of the banks, they didn't have to do it in the end. Assuming we're politicians, not bankers, how come the law was made in a way that goes to the bankers and not to the state? Mr. Sladolev, what do you think, if it's the law, if we're the main government and not the bankers, then why the bankers, why is the law made in a way that the bank owners don't have to pay back the money that the state has resuscitated the banks, they've already got big capital for small money. This is a question that we should ask ourselves, and that is, in fact, the answer to that question finally gives the answer to who actually writes the laws. Whether the laws are decided by the parliamentary majority or decided by those who have the money, those at the top of the power pyramid, which are bankers. I say it's the bankers and the fact that the banks aren't in the VAT system. If everyone has to pay VAT for the profit they earn in the difference between the purchase price and the sale price of a product, and in the case of banks, their product is money, which they sell as goods and demand back to pay them, that price for that money, and that's interest, then why don't banks pay VAT for the profits they make by lending? Here, and they pay for the profits, everybody pays for the profits. But VAT doesn't pay. And they make a small profit or a normal profit in those transactions. An enormous profit because the difference is 10 times between interest on deposit and interest on loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135588	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue the session on Wednesday, April 4, at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, first reading, P.Z. No. 573. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 16.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-29-0.u135589	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading of P.Z. Number 356. The promoter is the Live Wall and SNAGE Representative Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations is not adopted. I find that the majority of votes are 76 for, 8 abstentions and 6 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
