ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165142	So here at first I want to support teachers, teachers and teachers in their strike, my colleagues, and then I want consultations on behalf of the club on this agenda point concerning the position of Croats in BiH. The 7th SDA Congress adopted a Declaration aimed at implementing the Bosniak unitary policy. Unfortunately, we could not hear any stronger reactions than the Croatian state authorities on that declaration. We all know what happens to the position of Croats in BiH that they revote, and now we intend to turn BiH into a civil state with Bosniak domination. Of course, there is also the responsibility of the Croatian political leadership in BiH headed by Dragan Covic, but I think the leadership of the Republic should have responded to these intentions. These reactions are unfortunately lagging behind, I have seen only the partial reactions of individual politicians from Croatia, including myself, and I am seeking consultations because BiH needs a future, there is a need for co-operation of three constituent peoples and there is a need to ensure the equality of the Croatian people in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165143	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSS and Democrats club, I request a 10-minute break to consult on this agenda item. Today, for locals Garevec, Donji Kladar and Chardak in BiH and Bosnia's Posavina, the public debate on the route of highways and gas pipelines that should pass through these villages means Garevac, Donji Kladar and Chardak where about 8,000 inhabitants live most of the Croatian population who returned to this area, and now plans to tear down their houses again because they should cross the highway towards Serbia and the gas pipeline. I wonder what the Republic of Croatia has done to protect our people in this area and can we do anything to help them not to tear down their houses again? You know, if they were killed in the Homeland War, they were displaced, their houses were restored, some of them came back, unfortunately not all of them, and now because of the highway route and the gas pipeline, they'd crash their houses again and move out of these parts. How far does the Serbian policy plan go? It goes after that it even goes through the parish hall that the parish court must be torn down in the village, so I ask the government of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the HSS and Democrats to take the stand to change the route of highways and pipelines and to preserve life in the Bosnian Posavina especially to allow our returnees, our Croats to live on their hearth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165144	Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I'm asking for a 10-minute break to consult on this agenda item. The HDZ has just encouraged the adoption of a declaration on the position of Croats in BiH. I regret that MOST colleagues did not recognise the value of this declaration, unfortunately as some colleagues in the SDP that at that time we all showed here that we have a sense and a world for consensus, it would have even more echoed not only in Croatia but outside the Republic of Croatia. The government and previous HDZ governments have shown how much they care about the Croats in BiH, and this shows the work of our state office. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165146	All right. Injury of my colleague, Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165147	Your Honor, I must react. So it's completely false that we didn't recognize the value of a particular declaration, but counterpart Kovac deliberately forgot that the original text, meaning the declaration that was drawn up was significantly tempered to what we in MOST have given amendments that have not been accepted. So don't deceive the public. You're probably scared of the international community's reaction, you're retreating, and now you're giving us your cowardice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165148	Comrade Grmoy, you've broken the Rules of Procedure, I'm warning you, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165149	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. And on behalf of the SDP club, we are looking for a break to consult on this agenda point, particularly on the status and position issues of Croats in BiH. As Mr. Grmoja SDA said as one of the leading parties in BiH recently held a congress and brought a declaration, the BiH Declaration containing a series of elements that we cannot just keep quiet about. So that variant, that version of the civil state that the SDA advocates in its declaration in today's, I stress today's conditions in BiH do not lead anywhere but according to the takeover of state institutions and majorisation by Bosniaks of other peoples. Yes, our goal must be the civil state of the European type, a modern state but certainly BiH is still not in this situation at the moment so that it can take on such a single variant. Therefore, only when all the peoples in BiH and constitutionally and those who do not feel secure enough to trust their institutions to protect them will we then be able to talk about the further development of the civil state in BiH. And as for the Declaration of Parliament on the position of the Croatian people, unfortunately it did not get the effect that should have been achieved not because of the votes in the House but because of those fundamental intensities and intentions that were in the background when it was proposed here. It was not in the interest of Croatia there, to improve their position but to send certain messages to certain addresses in BiH. And of course we didn't want to be involved in that game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165150	Okay. A colleague named Lekaj Spraskaj is also reporting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165151	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party, I'm also asking for a break to consult on this point. I would only point out that, apart from Croats in BiH, there are Croats in both Serbia and Kosovo, so we want to consult on this and how this Declaration applies equally to Croats living in Kosovo and Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165152	Comrade Vučetić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165153	Thank you. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to consult at the club and warn the public that the civil state can only be created by democratisation. The democratic processes are not freed by growing nationalism in Croatia in which Croatians are transformed as those who are supposed to be in the position of creating Croatian colonies outside Croatia but the civil state does not realise even the anti-democratic declarations as the SDA has brought about. So, the only way in which freedom and equality of Croats and in the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia can be achieved today is not by encouraging the nationalist forces of structures that suit us rather than exclusively to develop democratic processes and to democratisation absolutely all realities in the Republic and beyond the Republic of Croatia. In a debate on the Croatian position in BiH, I said that the declaration was exclusively in the post of defence for Covic. If Dragan Covic had put as much effort into democratisation the process in BiH as he had put his efforts into his own wealth, we would have discussed it differently today. Croatians outside Croatia and Croats in Croatia have been left behind by nationalist policies, not those nationalist policies have led to the liberation of Croatia but to its capture. The liberation of Croatia in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and Montenegro occurs exclusively through the democratisation and growth of the civil state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165154	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? If not, I'd like a break by 10 o'clock, we'll proceed exactly at 10 o'clock. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.01 HOURS]] I will now call on the Secretary of State, the respected Tink Milas, head of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia to further explain the report, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165156	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, colleagues and colleagues. The central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and in 2018 focused its activity and work on protecting the rights and interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia through implementing competitions and other activities has strengthened the role and position of Croatian communities outside the Republic of Croatia and hence the relationship between Croatia and Croatia, regardless of whether we are talking about Croatian emigrants, Croatian people in BiH or members of Croatian national minorities in 12 European countries. Let me just take a moment to look back at this break, so all that started with my colleague Grumoja, I must honestly say that every day I try to be in BiH, which physically, as well as speaking to my colleagues, primarily with the chairman of the board, Mr Ljubic, Mr Raguzha and others, but with all those who represent the Croats in BiH, therefore the declaration... It was brought almost a month ago. days if I'm not mistaken, September 14th and I honestly don't understand that the Croatian Parliament, this High House, is discussing this issue in this way, I would say what if they allow me, using the petty party particular interests on the back of the Croats living in BiH in conditions such as live, political and other from Posavina and through Republika Srpska that we can't all solve it together in another way and bring together solutions that will really help them in everything that they spend daily. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You need to go to BiH and talk to people there. And you will see that everyone will tell you, so I only say it as the head of the central state office, that in the last 2 years they feel Croatia the way they should feel, that indeed the Croatian government and all Croatian institutions do what they do, that they understand that because we are representatives and members of the same people. In this way, I don't think it will contribute to anyone's least good standing or the well-being of the people who live there, though. The equal position of Croats in BiH, therefore, is the first key foreign policy priority of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, in 2018, we continued to support programmes and projects important for improving the quality of life of Croats in BiH by providing funding for 105 projects in the fields of culture, education, health and other areas of life where, through the support of associations and institutions of Croats in BiH, we tried to strengthen and encourage Croatian people in their efforts to remain sustainable and to support the preservation of the national identity of Croatian people in that country. The long-term strategic importance and territorial equality as well as the involvement of the local community are key criteria in the selection of projects while the Central State Office includes the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. I'd just like to plastically show you what happens when these projects are finished. So, we opened a home for students of weaker property in Mostar, equipped a student home in Sarajevo, opened the 6th block of Croatian hospital Dr. Fra Mato Nikolic in Novi Bila, built part of the OS Ruđer Boskovic in Gruda, restored a small school in Široki Brijeg, so only some of the projects that really mean life there, so they mean health care, means education, and they certainly support the survival of Croats and other people living in these areas. The government's strong commitment to making a stronger connection with the Croats in BiH is further visible from the fact that for the first time in 2018, the signing ceremony of a contract, which was sometimes extremely important, has been maintained in BiH precisely in the same year in order to strengthen institutions of strategic importance with the Croats in BiH, has provided support to the University of Mostar and HNK. We think that these are the institutions that really symbolise one people in the best way, and that's what we're going to continue with. The central state office successfully co-operates with political representatives of Croats at all levels of government in BiH, with numerous associations and associations operating in BiH but also outside BiH and institutions of the same institution in the fields of culture, science and education. It is important to highlight an initiative aimed at setting up co-operation with representatives of the perverse government in BiH where Croats do not have their representatives. So I'm talking about Busovac, Novi Travnik, Tesla, Prijedor, Jajc, which is recognised by the Croats in BiH as a significant shift compared to the practice so far. Croatians as a people living in two neighbouring and friendly states are a strong link to the engine of economic co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and BiH and to further strengthen these relations, the Central State Office signed an agreement on co-operation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Federation of BiH's Chamber of Commerce. We believe it will be a good platform for the joint entry of Croatian entrepreneurs from the Republic of Croatia and BiH into the world markets. In addition to the opening of the Croatian Consulate in Livn and Knightz and the correspondence of the Croatian Central Office in Mostar and Sarajevo, the launch of the Mostar-Zagreb aircraft line is indeed a significant result of the inter-resorship cooperation of the central state office with the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, with particular emphasis on the very successful cooperation of the central office with the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, with the Ministry of Croatian Defence and, of course, with the institutions of the Assembly Committee on Croatians outside the Republic and all those who have contributed to making our relationship or co-operation as firm and better. Strongly representing the importance of supporting young members of the Croatian people in BiH, we continued with the scholarship programme for students in the academic year 2017/2018 and thus enhanced the strengthening of their educational and scientific, their educational and scientific capacities and thus encouraged the stay in BiH. We actively participated in two thematic sessions on the position of Croats in BiH, which was held in 2018 by the Parliamentary Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, on which I give you all congratulations, and teaching you the results of the general elections in BiH held in October 2018, on which, for the third time since 1995, the Croatian member of the BiH Presidency has been elected, the central state office is participating in the preparation of the parliamentary declaration on the position of Croats in BiH and the European path we had heard about earlier, the opportunity to hear a few words. The declaration pointed to examples of practices that threaten the equality of Croats in BiH, sent a message on the need to ensure constitutionally guaranteed BiH, guaranteed Croatian rights and supported the European path of neighbouring and friendly BiH. In accordance with all these efforts with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds and the Education and Education Agency, a number of thematic seminars and workshops aimed at strengthening the professional and human capacities of Croats, the Croatian people in BiH, have been organised. Specific knowledge and skills that are thus acquired ensure that Croats remain the leaders of BiH's European path. A national minority in Kosovo and elsewhere has also been mentioned, so I can say that through continued very significant support from the programmes and projects of the Croatian national minority, it is important to highlight the active professional and political support of the Republic of Croatia and develop a partnership relationship with Croatian members of the Croatian national minority. In 2018, in cooperation with the Croatian embassies, the Central Office conducted a public tender for programmes and projects of associations, institutions and organisations of the Croatian national minority in 12 European countries to support the achievement and strengthening of minority rights through the strengthening of Croatian identity, notably through language, culture, cultural heritage, education and science and activities with the aim of developing minority media or the activities of minority institutions, as well as other projects that satisfy and improve the general public needs of the Croatian minority community in order to protect the rights and interests of Croats. The government's important step is to support strategic projects of the Croatian national minority in Serbia. Thus, in 2018, additional funds were provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the realisation and strategically important project of the Croatian minority in Serbia, the purchase of land for the headquarters of the news and publishing institution Croatian word. It was also launched last year in 2019 with the support of two strategic projects to build a Croatian house in Subotica and staff empowerment of the Croatian National Council in the Republic of Serbia, where we will sign the contract in the days ahead. The central state office on the Croatian side is a co-ordination body and a business holder in connection with the preparation and maintenance of meetings of intergovernmental mixed committees. All 4 meetings of the Intergovernmental Mixed Committees on the Protection of National Minorities held in 2018 with the Republic of Serbia, Hungary, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Montenegro to discuss improving the rights of national minorities. In order to improve the position and refer to the status of more than 50,000 Croats living in Slovenia, which the Republic of Slovenia unfortunately does not recognise in any way, the central state office established a committee on the issue of Croatian status in the Republic of Slovenia which held 3 sessions in 2018 and continued in this year. During 2018, continuous communication was continued with representatives of the Croatian national minority with the competent Croatian institutions and diplomatic consular offices with the aim of strengthening and surviving the Croatian and national minority communities. The cultural and educational needs of members of the Croatian national minority have been met in due time, and thus we continued to support the Croats in Serbia in acquiring knowledge and strengthening capacity for accession negotiations and RU funds. Media support has been continued in Croatian, mainly in the Republic of Austria, Hungary and the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about Croatian emigration, the activities of the central state office according to that part of the Croatian population outside our borders are aimed at co-operation and integration and strengthening Croatian identity around the world. In order to strengthen this cooperation, a programme of support for Croatian communities is launched through a public tender. The programme is designed to support specific needs and concrete activities of Croatian emigrant communities in all areas of importance for the preservation and care of Croatian identity, especially in the fields of culture and education. The central state office strongly encourages the integration of Croatian communities around the world, and 5 new networks involving schools from Croatian emigrants, BiH, countries where the Croatian national minority lives, with schools in the Republic of Croatia, were launched in 2018. The development of the programme aims to preserve and strengthen awareness of the belongings of one indivisible Croatian people in the youngest generations, regardless of where he lives. During 2018, preparations for the project Summer School of Croatian Identity were started as part of the project Koreeni which was intended for teachers, directors and students of those networks and which was successfully implemented in August of this year. The same traditional collaboration with the association of Croatian-American experts continued through the support given in the organisation of their 3 conferences and preparation for the summer school of Homeland, a programme which was successfully implemented in July this year. It is an educational-experienced programme aimed at young descendants of Croatian emigrants, designed on the basis of the needs expressed by Croatian communities in emigration, which strengthens the Croatian identity and awareness of the indivisibility of Croatian peoples, which promotes global networking, cultural and scientific cooperation of the young generation, descendants of Croatian emigrants, and their knowledge of education opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The central state office in collaboration with the Ministry of Science and Education, the Agency for Education and Education and the Croatian Emigrant Mother organized a seminar of Croatian language and culture workshops for teachers and students in Chicago, Milvoki and Cleveland. We can point out from other important steps in 2018 that the work of the Central State Office and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, as well as the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy has been continued on the draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which will soon be in second reading in this higher home, the Law on the Croatian Emigrants' Mothership has been adopted which is the work, structure and operation of the Croatian Emigrants Queen in line with the new Law on Institutions, which has reached the preconditions for optimising the institutional framework of the Croatians' relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The central state office has also launched a project called Register of Croatian Objects outside the Republic of Croatia that we are developing to promote the networking of Croats around the world and connect them with their homeland. The second session of the second meeting of the Croatian Government for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia was held in November 2018, which was an opportunity to consider what it is necessary to do for an even stronger integration and strengthening of relations between the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia with their homeland. The debate on emigration from the Republic of Croatia was held, and it was concluded that measures should be taken to restore demographic reconstruction and development aimed at returning Croatian emigrants and their descendants, and this council session confirmed the unity of all Croats crucial to the preservation of national identity, and to strengthen awareness of the indivisibility of Croatian people regardless of geographical borders. At the initiative of the office, the Senate of the University of Zagreb, supported by the Ministry of Science and Education, made a decision on special registration quotas for the admission of students in the first year of undergraduate and integrated undergraduate and graduate studies at the University of Zagreb for the academic year 2018/2019, is intended exclusively for members of the Croatian national minority and Croatian emigrants. It is also approved for 2019/20. academic year. The Croatian language learning programme for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has been continued, with particular importance in terms of fostering and promoting Croatian language and culture, and this program encourages the return of descendants of Croatian emigrants, creating preconditions for their easier inclusion in the economic and social life of the Republic of Croatia. From 2018 It is available and is open to the Croatian language class A2 which is a continuation of A1 and which enables users to make further progress in getting to know the Croatian language, first and foremost to Croats outside the country, but also to all other interested in learning Croatian language, and I must say that the information, i.e. that people, especially in South America, are very interested in this type of course. Steps have been made in terms of strengthening production, broadcasting new software content intended for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the fifth satellite programme was launched and thanks to all of the HRT who contributed to this, an enhanced Internet programme with news in Spanish and German, and... There are also new shows such as Global Croatia that handle topics interesting to Croatian communities in countries where they live. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the Central State Office continues to create new values for joint capacities, both in the Republic of Croatia and worldwide in cooperation with all the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, and responsibility in the work has resulted in trust, trust in communication and integration. Just the results of this cooperation of Global Croatia encourage us to take greater responsibility, to improve the existing and launch new projects in meeting the constitutional principle of indivisibility of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165157	I thank the Secretary of State, 8 is a replica, first is my colleague, Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165158	Thank you, President HS. Dear Secretary of State, despite the efforts of the state office that I consider satisfactory, I do not see that, through the past, special attention has been paid to Croatian emigration, very eviction. It should not be forgotten that the Croatian emigration according to CNB data, beware, is annual in the Republic of Croatia 15 billion kuna, that is what is recorded, it is assumed that at least 5 billion kuna can still be added to that amount. What I personally believe is that the institutions of this country, especially the embassies, especially the foreign ministry, have to make greater efforts, ultimately, and then, in cooperation with you, do everything to make this cooperation better, is what you have written here, with all due respect, it will not live up to itself, it will need the active role of all those involved, and especially here I think of our diplomacy, which I personally consider to be very little or very poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165159	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165160	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I thank you for the question, that you are right, in the past I would really say that this co-operation or this relationship with the emigrants will not say that it has disappeared, but somewhere it has been noticed, first of all, and I have just mentioned the government's advice, which consists of 55 Croatian representatives from all over the world, precisely they say that in the last few years it has felt that this trust has been restored, and this is precisely what I pointed out to believe in this high home in a few days, allowing them to get Croatian citizenship from which I would say everything, everything that we need to create, and the conditions for them, first of all, to encourage cooperation, whether it is through the education system, whether it is through the education system, Business and he might have given it back to the state. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165161	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165162	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, we from the HSS Club and Democrats, of course, welcome all activities to protect and help the lives of Croats outside Bosnia, Serbia, Kosovo and beyond. It is my question to you again whether you knew about the problem of these three settlements Garevac, Donji Kladar and Chardak due to the highway route towards Brcko and Brcko flat because it sounds amazing to us that representatives of Croatians from HDZ who participate in the government in Banja Luka say they did not know about this project and this problem of peasants. It's the three settlements, because they're going to crash the house again because of the construction of the highway. We at HSS are only interested in what you will do, that is to say, we are asking that our diplomacy be actively involved and helped to move this route to the highway, not to go across Croatian houses in Posavina and not to tear down the parish hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165163	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165164	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, of course I know about this problem and of course we are already in communication and we are talking primarily with Mr. Jerkovic, so Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the man who is most responsible for the problems and issue of Croats in this area and how much I understand everything that has been told me will be solved to the satisfaction however of the Croats who live there, to the satisfaction of our returnees. By agreeing that all that the Republic of Croatia can and should do is work together to communicate with the well-being of the people who live there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165165	Comrade Vučetić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165166	Thank you. I will look back at the beginning of what you started in your presentation, which is the position of the Croats in BiH. I am almost embarrassed to speak in this House because it is quite evident that this falsified right in Croatia Croats in BiH is using only and exclusively to raise their ratings and make certain political success possible. What I would like to ask you about is about the Croats in Montenegro. And I primarily think about it, it seems to me, according to the latest census, that the Croats in Montenegro have about 6 grand. During the 2003-2011 census, thousands of Croats made less known to Croats because the number of Bokelj and Montenegrins of Catholic religion has increased and we have the fact that the majority of the culture in Boka hrvatska is Croatian culture. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165167	Answer, please. ... Coliga Glasnović, a colleague of Glasnović, please, there are ways to express your opinion, there is a debate, so please don't shout like this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's your colleague, Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165168	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, my answer would be that the representatives of the Croatians from Montenegro, so the Croatian National Council and the Croatian representative in the Montenegrin Parliament were accepted the other day by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Montenegro best to perhaps go among the Croats in Montenegro and ask them what, how and how much this government does for them and whether they are satisfied with it. I know the answer, and maybe you should check it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165169	Comrade Ljubic, come in. You're the fourth.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165170	Mr. Secretary of State, it is bizarre and paradoxical that the SDA Declaration is spoken of by representatives of clubs who did not support the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH and it is strange that a representative of a club is actually talking about the state of Bosnia not knowing that it is precisely in that Declaration that a supranational state Bosnia is trying to impose itself as a nation instead of a Croatian, Serbian and Bosniak. Bosnian language instead of Croatian and Serbian. So a unitary centralist concept and that favors the real name of the state of Bosnia instead of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why to all those in this House, as well as to a representative of the club who said this morning about the knowledge and alignment of which means Bosnia in BiH and what is meant by Bosnian Croats in the media vocabulary in Croatia, I will talk about it in my individual debate. In fact, I reject these notional delusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165171	Secretary of State, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165172	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Ljubic. So what I said at the beginning, I really have no pathetic point in holding that the story, or everything we do for our Croats in BiH, should be difficult to overcome the political framework, but any party framework that should be overcome and should really work together on everything that will contribute to the survival of Croats in the area where they live for centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165173	Here you go, pal Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165174	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You mentioned now in response to the replica in Montenegro and Croatia in Montenegro. I don't know if they really praise the government's efforts and are satisfied with the government's efforts but when they talk to opposition members, then I must admit that they have a lot of criticism about those activities and the assistance the government provides, they don't consider them sufficient. But my question is what is the position of the Croatian government on the proposal of the Croats from Boko Kotorska, from Kotar and Tivat to Montenegro and Croatia together to submit to UNESCO for protection as a cultural good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165175	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165176	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Klisovic, we as a central office and government are trying to talk to all Croats in Montenegro but of course we are talking first to the elected representatives of Croatian minority institutions. And I really don't know, I believe you're talking to them, I don't think they said anything bad about the government's co-operation with the Croatian minority institutions in Montenegro. As for the UNESCO application, i.e. as far as I know, we also had this conversation on the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee, we were scheduled to go out together with a report for the Bokela Navy, however, thanks to the government of Montenegro, and as far as I know, their application to UNESCO has failed. So, as it goes on, I believe it will be for the benefit of our Croats who live there but also the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165177	Now it's up to the esteemed Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165178	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Milas, although the residence law was passed seven years ago, he is still current with Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia and through a series of requests that are being delivered to us, I have looked at the pages that you have from the central state office guide that explains it all. This frustration continues today, and we know why and when these amendments and amendments were made in a campaign in... and the former then government in 2012 when police were sent to the houses of these same people based on certain solutions and checked out then. The problem is, in fact, in a special application of this temporary departure when a person leaves residence for one year, so for more than one year, less than five years, and one provision in which they pay 15,000 kuna unless it happens. It creates one frustration and I'm asking you if we're going to go to the amendments and additions to this residence law?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165179	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165180	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Babic. I've heard what you've been saying for years, too. To this end, the central state office has also issued a guidebook for returnees, and everything else that creates problems for our returnees or those who have problems with their residence we need to talk to the MUP and ask for a consensus of institutions in order to make it very easy for them and for them to solve it on their... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165181	Now it's time for fellow Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165182	The Honorable Chairman. What I mean is, you mentioned the introduction of Croats to BiH, I want to draw attention to that HDZ BiH does not represent the overall interest of a political being in BiH, that is a fact. So Croatia's foreign policy towards BiH cannot be considered particularly for the Croatian people through the eyes, ears and interest of the HDZ of BiH. This wrong policy definitely needs to make us serious as a society because there are 200,000 fewer people in BiH for the result. I am aware of the problem and I agree with Mr Ljubic that we must be extremely careful when we mention what we call BiH and I am aware of the problems of voting, but Croatian politics must not choose not to communicate with the top of BiH, that does not mean that we agree with them. In the context, I wanted to highlight this problem which you point out is the result of representing the common interests. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165183	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165184	Thank you very much. First, I said in my brief report that we work together with associations and institutions, so with everything that the Croats participate in or what they exist in. And as far as politics is concerned, it is not a matter of HDZ or HSS, so it is that a Croatian National Assembly is established, which within itself has brought all Croatian political representatives together into one framework and is trying together to find the best solutions for Croatian issues in BiH, and we are here as the Republic of Croatia under the Constitution to care and help them on that path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165185	And the last replica of my colleague, Lecay Splash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165186	Thank you very much. This report shows that you are really making great efforts as far as Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are concerned. I am interested in the Croatian community in Kosovo who teach Serbian and learn Serbian language in primary schools, and have asked to learn Croatian, so I am interested in what is being done in this direction to send a professor or teacher to learn Croatian language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165187	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165188	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs. Yes, you are the right problem, or the Croat in Kosovo, is far from what you might call good. It is a very bad, very small community, most of the Croats have moved out, but they are talking with the Ministry of Science and Education about how to make it easier for them. You know, we've talked to the Croatian representatives both in part of the church and in part of our embassy, and we're looking for ways to help these people, even talking to certain industrial representatives like Podravka to hire these people, get them a job and make their lives easier. How's that gonna work? We'll make sure everything's okay, all the best. I believe it is up to the RS policy with Kosovo to find out about the little Croats, I must honestly say the little, best possible living conditions that are possible in Kosovo at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165189	Thank you. Okay. Now we're going to ask the committee's rapporteurs if they want to take the floor? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The first is the Club of HDZ Representatives, respected counterpart Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165190	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a very comprehensive methodologically coherent presentation of the Central State Office on implementation of the strategy and the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which as well as previous shows that the central state office has been imposed as a truly central and co-ordination body of the Government and not only the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Secretary of State Milos has conducted us through a cross-section of the central state office's activities as well as other state institutions that took place through the coordination of the central state office so that there is no need for me to repeat this in writing or in writing. However, it should be pointed out that the funding for projects and the needs of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is increasing from year and year so that this year compared to last year, respectively, in '18. compared to '17. increased by 8%. Starting from members of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, the central state office as a whole continued financing of Croatian projects from BiH in a way that puts focus on funding projects that have strategic importance for areas of culture, education, science and health. Thus, the most significant funds were allocated to finance the construction of the Croatian National Theatre, the University of Mostar, the Mostar Clinical Hospital, the Nova Bila Croatian Hospital, Catholic school centres, student and student homes, general hospitals, health homes, etc. Places Livno, Novi Travnik, Travnik, Zepče, Ljubuški, Kiseljak, Široki Brijeg, Banja Luka, Čitluk, Odžak, Posuje, Stolac, Tomislavgrad, Busovača, etc., says that all parts of BiH are being taken care of by Croats. In addition to strategic character projects, infrastructure and housing projects in refugee and return environments aimed at helping the return and sustainable stay of Croatian exiles, refugees in places where they were exiled and avoided. Again, I list the Bosnian Ship, Straight, Derventa, Varesh, Chelić, Kotor Varosh, etc. In addition, assistance and publishing activities in BiH are provided through the central state office, especially those of the institutions that care for national identity. Croatia provides support for research and documentation of historical buildings in the Homeland War. This is also witnessed by the opening of a new archive of the Croatian National War Documentary Centre in BiH whose construction and equipment is provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I see this centre as a truly strategic project that will valorise the real contribution of the Croats to the defence of the country and the survival of the Croatian people in BiH on the basis of historical facts. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the Government of the Republic of BiH as President of the General Council of the Croatian National Assembly and to give my thanks and to congratulate our colleague, Željko Raguž, director of the Centre without whose personal engagement and financial assistance would have no full effect. In the future, more emphasis should be placed on creating conditions for sustainable staying by supporting investment and entrepreneurship and family economies. In doing so, the existing and activation of other financial instruments envisaged by the strategy and by law, which involves microcrediting and the establishment of a guarantee fund for the lending of family economies and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in BiH. I would like to encourage the cooperation of all local, county and state entities and representatives of the Republic of Croatia who have experience in the use of funds from European and other programmes in the context of future e-cross-border cooperation projects that would meet the real needs of all environments in BiH, especially those inhabited Croats. That the strategy and the law are already being realised in these fields so that the opening of an office of an economic chamber in Sarajevo, the organisation of workshops dedicated to the preparation of EU projects, etc. The support of the Croatian BiH institutions from the Republic of Croatia has, in addition to its material importance, its symbolic importance as a political message to the Croats of BiH that Croatia is with them. My colleagues and colleagues, I would not want someone to misread me no matter how big and obviously this type of assistance is more appropriate to a part of a nation that is in a minority position in one of the states, and not to one nation that is a sovereign and constitutional factor of its country, as Croats of BiH are based on the constitution. If the Croats in BiH were truly sovereign and equal, taking into account the entrepreneurial spirit and proven entrepreneurial potential, they could finance their own needs and still participate with the Republic of Croatia in helping Croatian minorities. Unfortunately, BiH Croats have been neither sovereign nor equal for nearly 2 decades, and are increasingly denied the constitutionally guaranteed constitutionality. The fact is that businesses from the majority Croatian municipalities and counties from Herzegovina via Central Bosnia, Zepca to Posavina contribute the most relatively, as well as the absolute filling of the entity and state budget, but selectively redistribution and unfair laws and coefficients of distribution of VAT funds are being poured into other areas. So, national equality or inequality when it comes to the position of the Croatian people in BiH is not a metaphysical category, nor the invention of Croatian nationalists, but has its very material dimension. When and how it happened that the Croats who voted BiH's independence in the highest percentage of the first up in the country's defence, the first accepted all international agreements, had an entity during the war that had not yet surpassed any administrative arrangement in BiH since the 1990s. To this day. How and when it happened that today they're in the position of defending national identity and dignity, that's the question? This was the subject of talks in this assembly especially during the debate on the Croatian Parliament's declaration of the position in BiH at the end of last year, or none of which changed. This was also discussed at the thematic sessions of the Committee on Croatians outside of Croatia on the subject of BiH, the position of Croats in BiH and the European route of BiH held in May '18. the year of the meeting of the sustainable stay and return of Croatian exiles and refugees to BiH with special emphasis on Republika Srpska entity held in June 2018 with the participation of top Croatian officials from BiH, representatives of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, the official church in BiH, the institutions in charge of return and the association of exiles and refugees. Therefore, the biggest aid Croatia can provide to the Croats of BiH is the political advocate of the BiH Croats in international institutions with the aim of preserving Croatia's political subjectivity, constitutionality and establishing equality with the other two peoples. In doing so, it should be recalled that the Croatian signatories and guarantees of the Washington and Dayton Peace Accords, which have been violated by the anti-constitutional interventions of OHR representatives in BiH, are at the expense of Croats. We support the activities so far and expect both Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović and Croatian representatives in the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of Europe to continue to act on the international agenda and to use their huge international reputation to support the constitutional rights of the Croatian people in BiH. It is also important to support Croatia's BiH on the Euro-Atlantic path. Namely, without progress in adopting the European standards of BiH, it is difficult to rise from a group of the world's most economically miserable countries to which the Forum of Economics included it in the company of Venezuela, Zimbabwe, Yemen, Kosovo, etc. My colleagues and fellow MPs, the central state office in its report elaborated on the attitude towards Croatian minorities in Europe, and we can only congratulate and support them in these efforts. What we as a Parliament and all institutions must set ourselves as a political task is to fight for the rights and status of the Croatian national minority there because it is not yet properly or in no way resolved. In fact, 50,000 Croats in Slovenia are not at all recognised as a national minority. The Croatian language minority Furlani and the Julian region of Italy as such have not been institutionally recognised, although there are some progresses. The Croatian minority in Serbia still has no interstate contract guaranteed place in the National Assembly of Serbia or in the province and municipal parliaments. The Croatian national minority in Macedonia is not yet constitutionally recognised. The efforts of the Croatian minority in Montenegro should be supported to reach an agreement with the government of Montenegro on the heritage of the Bokela Navy as well as Croatian but also Montenegrin heritage. My colleagues and fellow MPs, for the undercharged months. There will also be a 3rd meeting of the Council of the Government for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia in Varazdin, and I am convinced that both the Government and the Croatian Parliament have something to come up with. In addition to all the achievements presented by the central state office in this report, learning Croatian language in Croat, e-Learning of Croatian language, increasing the registration quota at the Zagreb university, increasing the number of scholarships for Croatian scholarships in BiH and Croatia, summer school projects... Networking schools from emigration with schools in Croatia BiH, introducing the 5th channels of HRT, special programmes, global Croatia, international programme of Croatian Voice, "We Discover Croatia" and "Croatia My Choice", all of which have enriched and significantly informing Croatians in BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to all this, in a few days we will adopt in the Croatian Parliament a law on amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which has been a burning topic of our talks with Croats outside Croatia for years. This law represents a significant liberalisation or relief of admission to Croatian citizenship and incorporates all proposals from the Croatian communities from emigrants. Namely, art. 2. The law amends the earlier provision of Croatian citizenship by the birth of a child born abroad whose parent is a Croatian citizen at the time of his birth in such a way that if his parents failed to enroll him in Croatian citizenship until his age, the person himself can do so by the age of 21. The Croatian Committee outside Croatia has reacted with the amendment to allow this to happen to the elderly over 21 years of age and I hope that the Government will respect this proposal by its amendment. Article 3 amends the earlier provision on the regular way of obtaining Croatian citizenship in such a way as not to condition the business ability of a person who has so far discriminated against a significant number of potential citizens. Article 5 leaves out the generation limit for the acquisition of Croatian citizenship for the descendants of emigrants in a straight line and their spouses and allows for the acquisition of Croatian citizenship across a wider circle of the descendants of emigrants. Obligations to satisfy the knowledge of Croatian and Latin letters, Croatian culture and social arrangements for Croatian citizenship are hereby released. Furthermore, the acquisition of Croatian citizenship is regulated for people outside the Croatian people who are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is constantly dealing with all issues and laws that come into the parliamentary procedure and which can in any way be associated with the interests of the Croatian diaspora. The thematic session was held in May 2018 with the theme “Inclusion of the Croatian Diaspora into the social, political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia” with the participation of the institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Office of the President, the Chamber of Commerce, the Council of the Government for Croatians outside Croatia, the Croatian World Congress, etc. The session adopted two sets of conclusions, one which referred to political issues including the Law on Croatian Citizenship, an increase of mandates for Croats outside Croatia in the Croatian Parliament, the exercise of voting rights in the same way as other citizens, particularly with regard to correspondence and electronic voting, etc. The second set of conclusions concerns economic issues. Both sets of conclusions are referred to the knowledge and treatment of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. And to conclude, the HDZ club will support this report, which shows that from year to year the central state office and government and parliament follow the strategy and law in relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It is equally important that they are always and hopefully will be this time, these reports unanimously adopted as evidence of our political maturity because the issue of Croats outside Croatia is seen as a strategic rather than a particular party interest, in fact, I would like to achieve the same level of consensus that Croatia had in terms of joining NATO and joining the EU. My colleagues and colleagues, so today I have spoken and so far I have spoken on behalf of the club, but in my individual debate I will talk in a slightly different way, about some of the issues that I feel that we need to be immodest here, to raise awareness and the Croatian public in general and politically about some issues concerning Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially Croats in BiH, and earlier in requests of pauses and replicas, we have had the opportunity to testify here, even in this Assembly there are certain notions of delusions, to speak about the state of Bosnia instead of BiH, from talking about Bosnian Croats that actually do not exist, there are only Croats of BiH, etc., but therefore in individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165191	Thank you. The second debate, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic and Honored counterpart Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165192	Dear colleagues from the office, President of the Parliament, the permanent issue of the relationship between Croats outside the country, this task takes a nonstop, if we have the right information, I don't think we do, but it goes on. Croatians outside the country are known to give a minimum of 16.5 billion kuna every year to come here, 16.5 billion kuna, this is 2.2 billion EUR as much, and we get from, this should be repeated, from the entry into the EU we are 14.5 billion of this kuna in plus, in fact, EUR. What's that formula we don't understand? Taxes, people come from Switzerland, double taxation, a lot won't come back for it, let's just say in Switzerland they pay what they pay here a month from their pensions, and, of course, in a certain part of the population, it's caused a revolution that would come back here, and I'm just saying that most of the money that comes here is never registered at all through the CNB. The new Law of Citizenship, here is Israel, passed since '48. When the state of Israel was established, it increased its population ten times, ten times the population, they had a simple return law, and I would say we've had laws so far to go, and we know why it is, we know why it is, were these Croats unwanted here and today they're unwanted, it's just an act now of some character here that burned party books, but we're moving on. The registry outside, the Croats outside the country, so it could have been made a register by now in coordination with the Croatian Catholic missions that we have in the world as much as you want, from Australia to Argentina, a rhetorical question. Investments, foreign investment, we have more honorable consuls than China, and Poland that has used EU funds and increased its GDP per capita 4-5 times higher has integrated its diaspora in the order of the state. Competitiveness, why are we from 141 countries 61 and who will come to invest, why, and who, at the bottom of these 141 countries, countries like Zimbabwe, now South Africa soon, North Triangle, Guatemala, Honduras etc., always compare with post-Communist countries, but the solution to this problem for Croats outside the homeland is the solution is always the source and the answer is the source and it is prevented in... The media. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We always have some new, new programming period announcements, they're always somehow in the new programming period, we could have solved it a long time ago, but that's why ladies and gentlemen, the national conscious government, which we don't have, of course, national awareness of power, was one character here now that has no idea of anything, if you don't understand what borders, what real policy is, look today at the situation of Syria, Iraq, etc., Turkey, it's a real politician, but what I've heard today you have to faint, it's failed theologians, philosophers, and we need to separate the politics from emotions, what's going to happen with the Croats in BiH for 20-30, there's a cultural war, and I'll talk about it later. Here, it seems to me that we represent here as a help to the Croats of BiH as a charity, so we are hundreds of millions of kunas in plus the Croatian state with these people, it is a strategic depth, for me it is an artificial border, an artificial border, and it will always be. President Tudjman never spoke to HV, HVO, but Croatian forces, and today on this issue some people are disturbed by HVO, HVO, 7,000 dead, most of them died in Bosnia and Herzegovina, central Bosnia, northwestern Herzegovina, Mostar, it's none of your business, there are six cameras out there, outside of HS, who's interested, nobody's interested, nobody's listening to what we're talking about here, but I'm tired of some other stuff, here's a scraw from the media that's just someone who doesn't care about it, that someone's just 6 cameras out there in HTV last year, that's how they work, 6 cameras are working, and someone's just a piano just recently, and that's not interested in this, and they don't care if the media is putting filters between our brains and the real world, they're not worried about the situation in BiH and Croats out of home country, which they've only given me that we know that they're only two years in the war, '92. until '94. The Croats outside the country have sent over $660 million for weapons, and we still don't have a ammunition factory to shoot with the slingshots and so on. I'm glad that the office, in fact the government has increased assistance to Croats outside the country about 20%, it's nice to me, but these cross-border projects I think it's good for you to have this House of Culture, Theatres, Schools, Channeling, but if there are no people working, you know what there is one sentence, Shakespeare or bread, Shakespeare or bread, we've now talked a little bit about the position of Croats in Vojvodina in Boca Kotarska, so who is the ladies and gentlemen of those who burned... who attached it, is it called Boka Kotarska bay of Croatian saints, so whoever joined Montenegro, so you know this one, Mr Maras and other resident communists there, well you know, that's how you never heard of the Japanese battle, you're not interested and you're historically politically illiterate, and not only that but you're an international, totally analytical, you don't know what the state is, you're a state there, you're a state there social, social flats, there villas in Pantovchak, Tito, party, barbecue, buttocks, it's your country. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would say now I'm going back to that culture camp that's being fought in BiH, the cultural war, I'm glad to open up the country's, this centre, the documentation centre for the Homeland War in Mostar, because the Croats in general have no idea what was going on down there, and I'm going to repeat again what I did 25 times here, that there are no 4 choir areas of HVO today or there would be a Croatian state, or there would be this so-called. Federation. When the Dayton Agreement was signed 51% of the current Federation of BiH held the Croatian forces, and who remembers the last man who died there? No one, from HVO's 2nd Guard Brigade on 437 because the war went down another three months after the Storm. We have an example. Now in the egg where the Bosniak government tries to claim to itself the Church of St. Marys in Eggs under her patronate, but we know that all churches there are Catholic built actually mosques based on the foundation of the Catholic Church. I hold in my hand a book about Bihac, which was written more than 100 years ago, and here we see that Croatian nobles were found in a crypt under the largest mosque in Bihac, which was once the Church of St. Ante. It's pure history. We can't build mosques on a territory where there's never been any Muslim believers. So don't... territory is mythology not history and history isn't mythology. So much for that cultural battle. But there is still a battle for cultural memory and collective memory, not only in BiH but also in other places in the world, and we have fallen into one hole here the biggest mantra of former communists we have to worry about the future over the past. Well, of course, even though one of the women who attacked me here in the square was 80 years old, I couldn't defend myself, she does. A villa beneath the Gracans up there in Medvednica, has a villa with a ballet hall and a villa at sea. So if I had taken someone and taken those fairies, cooled someone down and lived there for 70 years, and I would have taken care of the future too, not the past. Now to the economy, the international integration of Croatia with outside Croatian and other entities here, but this cannot happen unless we have synergy between all ministries. It's like playing guitar on one wire. We have a G2 Economic Forum every year and the same remarks are always repeated, the legal system, the implementation of the legal system, the disputes last for 10 years. And who's to blame for that if you have in the judiciary people who were there from... regimes so how many 30 and some supreme judges are all from the former regime, and some have condemned people for reading the newspaper for four years. Well, the brain has to stop. And what it looks like out there, when he looks at one political prisoner who's been convicted for four years of telling a joke and who in Zenica for 10 years, I've known a man like that, ate only chicken buttocks and never got a single letter, not a single package. And that's where the people who laugh at him and his victim sit down, gray their heads. That's none of your business. Tito, the party, the barbecue, the buttocks, that's how people look outside, that's the perception. Bureaucracies, generated and why are we 61 of the 141 states in the world in terms of competitiveness? Why? Is people looking for bribes, it's corruption on every level someone's looking for money. Here's the latest example yesterday, not to mention the past. A man comes from Switzerland with a partner to invest a contract, under the Anglo-Saxon law the contract is sacred, signature, signature, you can't rent a cell phone unless you have signed the contract. In court, it's God and a beating. With us, a man invests more than half a million euros, a private company contracts complete, all good, and no, in the end, everything is questionable now because someone else has to pay. What are we talking about here? So where are those greenfield investments? Where are those strategic investments? But if we don't, this is all just a story because the biggest aphrodisiac in the world is hunting, hunting. And we need to separate politics, we can't separate economic policy, we can't. If we don't speed this up, not only will the health system but the pension system that today covers Croats outside the country with their contribution, in part. Here's the synergy, so much for the synergy between the ministry and the office. Perception outside, that's what I was talking about. You have a suspended resolution in all Croatian media recently, the resolution on the condemnation of the communist party as a criminal organisation has some data. Is there a debate here at all about this criminal organization that still rules here as well as some people despite empirical evidence, robbery, mass murder, persecution, political prisoners? They still deny it and tell fairy tales and nonsense here. Scary. It has to paralyze the brain. How many more mass graves do we have to find to see what's going on here? And who was the property taken away from? It's great for you, it's great for HNS, HDZ, it's great for these heads in the SDP, you have your property, social housing, villas down at sea. And what about the return of the seized property? Yesterday a man came to me forcibly 9,000 square meters in the center of Zagreb. There's still a return on that property. And we're talking about democracy. Oh, great, you could've worked it out. That's what people look at outside. The millions of dollars worth of housing buildings today, and the average Croat who got that property back, you know how much he got? On average, he received the million-dollar compensation he was due, which is according to the EU resolution, if you can't pay back, he got it before I said an average Croat $13,000. And the political prisoners got for their troubles, they spent ten years there, 10 years, some 4 years, some 3 I think less than 50 kuna a day, and that's how people out there are looking at who got away from the system of exes, the way they look outside. And there's more than 3 million out there, but they're not wanted by these people. Some rays of light appear, for example. The Roman cars, he came here, the man worked, worked his whole life, slept on the floor until he reached what he did today. You have Boris Miksic, who was stolen in the presidential election, who was not wanted by Croats. They wanted Mesic and such characters, such heads wanted from the ancient regime. .../The speaker doesn't understand. It paid its workers at the factory up 7.000,00 kn for Christmas, such people are undesirable and that means today the biggest problem is not only this economic and political, but anthropologically, if we choose such heads, so people look outside. And with this would have ended this I think for some heads here this is for me a betrayal to some level of this dissatisfaction and that tromnity of Croatian powers so far to the Croats outside the country, but I remembered something, says betrayal, issues a question of date, it is so with some heads here, they would have survived on Mars to come here, look at the movie Mars attacks, immediately join the heads of some here, most of the way on this side.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165193	It is now Mr. Ivica Misic's turn in front of the Club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, please welcome Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165194	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State Zvonko Milas and his associates, I would like to welcome you. When we talk about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, there is much to be said since I come from a Croatian village near Brcko, my Dubrava, which existed during Rome, which was first passed during the Roman Empire of the Bosnian Ship, Modrič, Dubrava, Sava. Why am I saying that? During Austro-Hungarian, the same village had its own barracks, had a barracks, that when the communists arrived in '45. They had a mill, they had bakers, they had everything, the Communist party took everything down, they took everything down, there was nothing left in the village, today that village rose again, there's a lot of entrepreneurs, there's one 10-20 halls, and so I'm just talking about my village. I want to say something else, here today, on today in Bosnia and Herzegovina, something is happening again, which is not appropriate, which is not good, the railway is being built, Banja Luka highway is being built – Doboj – Bijeljina via our Croatian villages. Imagine our 80 people built our homes in the village of Garevac, Kladar and Chardak, through their houses now passing highways where 80 houses will collapse and today it is decided in the Serbian Republic. So, Croats, they built their own houses and they tear down their houses for the interests of the highway, I know the Bosnian Pavina, there's so much width that the highway can certainly be moved over the meadows that there's a lot of. Unfortunately, today we want to clear the Croats from the Bosnian Posavina, which has suffered the greatest burden in both this war and that of World War II and during the Turks. Who's gonna protect you people? Are we here in this country, in this HS trying to stop and try to help them? The other day there was a book promotion written by one Posavka who lived in 40 C.E. in Switzerland, the author of the book is Zorica Krajinovic Marinovic, the book's name is Stopped screams, screams stopped, but not souls, referred to Bosnia and Herzegovina's people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Yes, screams are stopped, but souls aren't people who still love their part and love their buildings, although nobody helps them and wants them there, embarrassingly, almost 200,000 people or 250 are expelled from the Bosnian Posavina. What did we do for them today? Not much, but still something we did, what we did for those Croats, not just Bosnian Croats, Croats in Serbia, Croats in Montenegro, Slovenia and around the world. I have to admit, ever since the evicted Croats' office opened up, there's something that's been recognized, some desire we want to make, and I have to publicly commend you, thank you, I think you've done everything that could be done, of course you can't go beyond your means. The Croatian state has singled out 74 million approximately, I'm not going to talk about the numbers for the evicted Croats, I have to say it increased 20%, I thank them, probably if we were in a better situation there would be more money. How many Croats live outside the country? About 3 to 4 million are said to be more and more said to be about 4 million Croats. We Croats, in the Republic of Croatia, speak, and politics in the Republic of Croatia, have not tried since '91. I'd say five years to the last one. Helping these Croats in some declarative way they were saying, but they did not enter among the Croats and try to bring her back. How to get the Croats out? It is the easiest job if we really want those Croats to be close to us and the Croats to return to the Croatian state. What's a prerequisite? Our Croats live in Europe, in Germany, England, everywhere, Australia, South America, Canada and all over the world and in South Africa, I was also in Australia, and there I was, what I experienced there, in the '80s when I was believing when we talked the Croats would be able to walk for Croatia then. They loved their country so much, they were so obsessed with the Croatian state, of course they didn't agree with the Communist party, their relationship with the Croats after the Second World War, the truth of the exodus of the Croats was that we were not talking about Bleiburg and the murder that happened, unfortunately. Here we have today minorities in Croatia, which I also want them to be, to have a pleasant life in Croatia, to respect the Croatian state and to certainly help them survive in Croatia. What happens to our Croats in neighboring countries where they live, how they pass. We see the other day from Pupovec's TV exit with a rhetoric, that's embarrassing. I don't want to mention him, he's irrelevant to me, he's irrelevant to his speech. As the Croats live in Serbia, I will ask a question. As many as there are in their parliament, as far as we influence that there are, how Croatians in Slovenia where there are 50,000 of us and Slovenians there are 10,000, Slovenians are recognised as minorities and we as Croats of 50 thousand are not. Why are we... Why are we doing this? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we appreciate ourselves? I don't think so. Gentlemen, if other minorities want to have all the rights we're asking so much that we have the right in their countries and it's clear and loud without any strain. We are Croats constitutional people in BiH, what is happening to us? Someone else is choosing the president for us. Here's this Declaration, I hope the law succeeds in showing that we Croats choose in Bosnia Croats. That some other nations can't do that to us, but they did. I wonder how long it took us to come to one sense, so after 25 years we try to solve it here, unfortunately, it took a long, long time to solve it. And we are a constituent people, nothing in front of us is Serbs or Muslims. How much do we affect Dodik for the Croats to return? Nothing. The shy thing, I'd say. They seek their rights, they say here we have no electricity there in some villages in Croatia. Croatia built their houses, brought electricity, and they are no longer there. In Bosnia's Pavina, everyone was burned, no one built anything. There were 30% of Croatians in Banja Luka, not to talk about Prijedor and Gore and Eggs and all the others who are trying to kidnap us today. We don't need anything else. We just need to protect our own. Around Brcko is 25%, 25 villages Croatian majority Croatian. About Tuzla is 64% grantovna hrvatska. We don't know that here, we don't care. Yes, gentlemen, we're running to Europe, we haven't solved our problem. Yes, we need Europe, we need to respect these laws, we need to raise standards, we need to take care of every Croat wherever he is. What our strategy is, I'm asking myself if we have a strategy. We got some kind of shy, like we're afraid to say that's what we want. BiH used to be Croatia rather than all other peoples. If we go into history, someone will say I'm right-handed now, I'm talking right-handed, not right-handed because I love what's mine, I have the right. And I want minorities to have that right but to respect the Croatian state. Financial assistance, what Croatia has given BiH that scholarships both students and students, we build homes, we are trying to solve, Zvonko, you, I must tell you the truth, have paid attention again to Bosnia's Posavina and thank you very much and I hope that we will continue to cooperate because there, of course, needs the most, that people need the most. How to motivate Croats to return? I'm talking about Croats who are outside of Croatia, who are in America, Australia, Germany, England. Under the number one rule of law, a regulated state, for everyone, no one has the advantage, they're all on the same page. Of course we didn't get there today after 25, 27 years, to arrange a legal state where certain cases would be resolved in two months, five months, the longest year. We've been doing this for five years and 10 years, it goes out of date. When some serious things go out of date, I wonder if someone is responsible for who should have put that case on trial, who kept that case in a drawer, who was then removed from court, whether the President of the Court, whether the others. No, it's just been so long that it's all out of date. Of course it should be security, people need to have a safe country where they come in and we're still wandering around. There's a game tonight, so it's security. God forbid something happens. We had a cowardly cross, never Ranko Ostojić discovered it, and we know that someone purposely did it down there to tarnish the Croats as Ustashas, which we are constantly mentioned, including Pupovac the other day. He didn't find out, I wish he'd found out. If you're big... They filmed the cameras, someone had to draw it, give it, they know it all, but the Croats need to be accused, they need to be torn down, they need to be told that they don't know, that they are, that I don't say Ustasha. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see them in Croatia, I don't see them personally, and I don't want to see them, I don't want to see them. We have a state, we want this country to be legal, arranged, and that we and our children and our grandchildren have a secure state where they can safely live. Our entrepreneurs, so here are mine from BiH or from the outside, would invest very, very much and have invested in Croatia and have made good companies and work well. That's what we need to encourage, make an economy. Here's a colleague I know who made good steps in the river, Zadar, my friends we talked about, congratulations. This is how we protect Croatia and how Croatia... What's going on today in politics here's the teachers don't have big salaries, I'd want them to have big ones, but if they can, the question of whether we have money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we go to borrow and tear down the system again then people will be picked up again and leave this country. We can't live on credit, we have to spend as much as we make, and this prime minister will, and as far as I can see, also the Minister of Finance. Now what's it gonna be, I don't know if it's populism, so of course it is, but it's us Croats. It didn't come into politics for me or just for the people who are sitting here just for the sake of the people because the people sent us here to do what would be in the interest of the people. In the end, I want to support everything that is in the interest of Croats outside of Croatia, especially my BiH, and in my Posavina that I want these people to take care of once, that this is the same... made houses today, so that this highway can be moved as far as possible, imagine, burned down in the war, in peace today you build a house, he says now the highway is going, so we tear you down 80 houses, Croatian, how, is that just by chance through three villages the Croatian direct highway cannot be visited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, all that clear to us and this book that says stopped are the guilty but not the souls, the souls... He's still alive and I want to give this book to the President of the Parliament, unfortunately he's not here, so I want you to hand it to him, President of the Parliament, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165195	Thank you very much, Mr. Misic, we will hand over the book to Mr. Jandrokovic and it is now in front of the SDP club, Mr. Domagoj Hajduković. Here you go, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Milas with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, unfortunately, whenever we discuss the implementation of this law and strategy, somehow they can't take the impression that this is turning into a debate on Croats in BiH. And while we from the SDP share concerns about the position of Croats in BiH as we have spoken several times, and while we are also not happy that our countrymen in BiH are being treated politically, as they position themselves, I think this debate deserves to hear little about Croats who do not live in BiH but in other parts of the world and Europe, and that is why I will base my debate on that. So they can agree with colleagues who have said that we have heard a lot of term deficiencies here or that many do not distinguish some basic concepts and at least one of the basic concepts if you ask me are which two types of Croat community we have outside the Republic of Croatia and these are communities where the Croats are natives and have found themselves there due to changes in borders, countries etc. and parts where the Croats are emigration, so to encourage different motives, mostly economical, went away from Croatia and sought a better life somewhere else. I would first of all like to look back at the natives, so the Croats are natives in BiH, but also in other countries, for example, in Hungary. And taking care of our communities that are natives can't... I always like to underline the Hungarian example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you know any colleagues and colleagues, that the only HNK operating outside the border of the Republic of Croatia is in Hungary, in Pechuh? Do you know how much he gets from the Republic of Croatia? Numbers and letters, zero, zero. I think I need to underline to you how much effort this is and how rich it is and how incredible it is that our compatriots managed to maintain their culture, their identity and their language so long surrounded by Hungarian language, surrounded by Hungarian culture, were although physically close to the borders with the former state, now with Croatia, but this is just one symbolic indicator of how we treat these countrymen outside of Croatia. So the Croatian state's HNK won no kuna. He got it from some mayor, and now I don't want to do a commercial but he's mostly funded by Hungary's funds. Now I ask you colleagues and colleagues, how much can we look into our faces and say, in fact, that another country, a foreign country, no matter how friendly it is, appreciates our countrymen and our community in our territory more than we do ourselves? I've been in a few budgets over the last few years asking to introduce an item precisely for this HNK, so let it be symbolic but to our people sometimes symbolism is extremely important. For Croatian state self-government projects in Hungary and the Croatian Union in Hungary, as far as I know if the number has not changed radically, we give a little less than 100 000 kn annually, we are talking about all of Hungary and we are talking about some 20 thousand Croats as little as possible, as much as possible who declared themselves Croats and who still have a preserved identity there. Well, colleagues and colleagues are not enough for any serious publication on their work and what they do, let alone for some projects that could therefore be directly used to protect their culture, to protect their identity. Do you know that the Croatian Educational Centre "Miroslav Krleža" in Peču is one of the most prestigious schools in that part of Hungary? Did you know that many Hungarian children want to go to that school because the level of education is extremely high and is almost guaranteed if they finish that school successfully, enrolment at any university in Hungary that they want? Do you know on the other hand what problems our countrymen in Hungary have only with textbooks in Croatian? Huge, colleagues and colleagues, huge because they can't buy foreign exchange transfers, so they can't buy textbooks from Croatia, they don't get anything from Croatia, and then what do they do? They manage, translate, I personally took some spent textbooks from the Ministry of Education and drove them to Pechu so that these children could also study social, but also exact sciences in their native language, or in the language of their ancestors, so that it is a shame that such a thing depends on the enthusiasm of individuals, not on the systematic care of the state, so I think it's a shame, I think it's a shame. And then we can talk about taking care of our countrymen outside the Republic of Croatia, so I think, say, right in front of our countrymen from Hungary, we can cover our ears, you know why? Because the highly respected organized community is very much guarding its roots and very, very many of our compatriots there are still speaking Croatian, even some features of the dialectic Christian Croats, because Gradisce exists for those uninformed on both the Hungarian and Austrian sides, therefore a special, special version of the old Croatian language which, who survived in Gradisto and which they are very proud of. Did you know that in Mohač there are also drills of the same Croatian custom, that there is a mention of the room, that... We have the same elementary school, which is very, very esteemed and active, that in addition to Drava, Podravina, in several counties our countrymen speak still Croatian, have their customs, go to church where also Masses are served in both Croatian and Hungarian, preserve their identity and customs, and sometimes they only need symbolic care from us. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The day of the Croatians in Hungary is one of the social events in Hungary where they are very often seen, very, very high officials of the Hungarian state. From the Republic of Croatia come representatives of the office every honor, but except for them rarely when who, rarely. Do you know the fact and we joked that just when I was talking about this particular community, that the Republic of Croatia had 2 Commissioners in the European Commission, 2 Croats, then it was a colleague of Mimica, and the other Commissioner was a Hungarian Commissioner, a colleague of Navračić, also a Croatian from Hungary. So if we talk about some banal examples where we can very much help our minorities, even if symbolically, then unfortunately that's where we fall on, on the exam. Second, the second segment of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia is of course emigration, so Croats who went away many years ago and who unfortunately still go, motivated by different reasons and sought happiness somewhere further. But we can't be happy here either, especially immigration, as far as we know, but she's basically preserved her identity, even though it's getting more and more lost, but it still exists, it's still preserved. For example, I had the opportunity to see firsthand in Canada how many living Croatian communities there are and how much Croatians are appreciated there, so the president of one of the largest Canadian banks, one of the largest banks in North America, is a Croat, not to speak of other prominent and respected lawyers, politicians, say a member of the Canadian Parliament, is also a Croat of origin, the Bobrines are of origin from Kamanja, so with Ozlj, lawyers, entrepreneurs, builders, etc. And you know what they all told us, they all told us the following that they wanted to, not maybe go back to their homeland, but that they wanted to invest in the Republic, and what they were rejected, bureaucracy, our complicated procedures, our justice that wasn't settled, non-constitutional court practice, etc., etc. One of the important segments of keeping in touch with people, our people living outside the Republic of Croatia by me should be that economic cooperation that can then produce cultural and deeper ties, etc., which can benefit both of us and others, and that is where we fall colleagues and colleagues. I have to take a critical look at the Return Office because I had a few experiences when people were talking to that office and they didn't get the help they needed. A colleague wanted to return from the United States where he worked for the World Bank, but in the end he gave up, came to me to help him as a friend, and the strategy is now also working for international institutions, I doubt he will return to the Republic of Croatia, which is a huge loss of such potential, one such man for the Republic of Croatia, from which people leave their notes, do not return. At the end when we talk about our countrymen living in BiH, I said that we also care about their status there, but I will ask one rhetorical question that I know cannot be answered by Mr. Secretary of State, so perhaps no one currently from the government, but I will ask you this rhetorically how many Croats are left in BiH because of all these measures we are taking? We don't have, we don't have good folk, we don't have good folk, I wish they could stay in BiH and create their future for their people and for themselves, but if you look at our seashore, you'll see that they're mostly working there now and unfortunately the Croats from BiH are now going together for our Croats somewhere further west, and whoever comes to us, the Filipinos, Macedonians, Serbs, etc. We have a whole series of other communities where their position has also not been regulated until the end, for example in Serbia or Macedonia, it is mentioned by my colleague Ljubic, although on the Macedonian side thanks to God there is good will, but for this the Constitution needs to be changed, and this is always a sensitive topic, but I believe that in some foreseeable future, Croats will become a minority, a recognised minority in Macedonia. However, the issue of Serbia remains, etc., etc. And I agree with the speaker before me that unfortunately we show how much we appreciate ourselves taking care of our countrymen outside Croatia, but also about many other things colleagues and colleagues. So since I've heard discussions here about philosophy and history, let me, too, have an intervention in not so long ago, to illustrate how we appreciate ourselves. We were all very proud when we received the first Croatian at the head of an international multilateral organisation of the Council of Europe, Marija Pejcinović Burić, and we all supported it which we have in the Council of Europe and which we have contact with the Council of Europe because it is ours. I disagree politically with her, in some respects she disagrees, however, but keeping the interest of Croatia and our reputation, and I cannot talk about someone who is bad. And what do those who are in power now do? Mrs. Lora Vidovic, whom I highly appreciate, taught the European Ombudsman's candidacy. The HDZ wouldn't support it, and I'm wondering, or rhetorically, I can only wonder why? I think enough reference to her work may be the fact that staying in far-off Namibia when I said at a meeting that I was from Croatia, they told me, uh, Laura Vidovic, that, yes, they didn't even tell Shuker before she did. And that's why we get the impression that we're only talking about consensus and we only talk about it when HDZ fits, and when it doesn't suit you, then there's a little different criteria. And that's why I think it's through these examples, but also through taking care of our countrymen outside the Republic of Croatia, so sometimes symbolism is more important than money itself, we need to show how much we appreciate ourselves, how much we appreciate these people and how important they are to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165197	Thank you very much. I take advantage of the opportunity to warmly welcome students and students and their teachers from Slavonski Brod School of Economics and Birotechnics who are here today, we welcome them and thank you for being with us. ... Let's move on, Mr. Zvonko Milas will now speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165198	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to say a few things after the presentation on behalf of Mr. Hajdukovic's SDP club. I don't know if he followed, listened to my brief presentation on the strategy report this year, but I knew exactly that his focus would be on the Croatians in Hungary, which is good. Obviously, however, he or she has a communication where he or she is supplied with information that is not points or has no information, so he or she speaks on a flat-rate basis. So, first of all, I have to point out that Croatia and Hungary are operating through an intergovernmental mixed committee that in 2017, after almost 4 years of Committee break due to the SDP government policy, so nothing has happened, has started to function again, and where the OSCE has named it as the best example, we can even say to the EU paradigm on the protection and care and rights of national minorities in Europe. And it is perfectly normal for Hungary to take care of Pechu, to take care of the Croats, it would be good, I don't know if there is a colleague Jankovic there to ask about how the Republic of Croatia, and I dare say in the reciprocity of taking care of the Hungarians in Osijek where you come from and how you fulfill your commitment to them. First of all, it is not true that for Croatian, not national, but the Croatian Theatre in Pechuh did not give any kuna. In fact, the land was bought with Croatian money and all performances and all cultural cooperation between the theatre that happens through the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, the Croatian minority community in Hungary has a resort on the island of Pag, in Vlasic which it gave in the concession of the Republic of Croatia, I think that the concession comes out sometime in 2023 on the follow-up, so we worry about our Croats primarily because the Hungarians in Croatia, especially in the part from which you and I, Mr Hajdukovic, are not only citizens and citizens of this country but have made a great contribution to its creation. I can confirm that personally, so in Vukovar I was with members of the Hungarian national minority where 55 gave their lives to their country. And I'm sure no one here is thinking of tightening or denying anything necessary for our national minority, for its status, for its position. And if that were the case, although I never talk about money as funding but money as a means of cooperation, I must point out that during the government of Andrej Plenkovic that the funds going towards our national minority in Hungary have been raised, I mean more than 40%, so in relation to the government run by Zoran Milanović, not to mention the individual, help in the construction of kindergartens at Miroslav Krleža school in the self-government in Narda, Ethno memory information centre, not to mention the Lexicographic Institute, so a lot of things that I'm not sure you know about. We even had a chance to talk to each other, to come and you could get information so it might be easier and simpler, but not to worry about the Croats in Hungary as much as any other minority, whether it's autochton or not, but we're really trying to do everything to make their position better. Now that it's an opportunity for me to tell only about emigration, so you mentioned Canada, and there's no one to praise, but I don't want to judge anyone either, I have to say that in these 30 years, this government has for the first time sent language teachers to the Croatian state, so this government in Canada, in the United States and in Australia, in order to really speak Croatian, so by what is the basis of each identity, so that Croatia remains preserved among our Croats in those areas and that we can really do today, tomorrow, and I believe that it will be improved just when the new Law on Citizenship is passed so that we can come back and come back to our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165199	Time, but you have a lot of replicas, and then you'll make up for it. The first replica was sought by Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milos, and where to begin, so I know that there is concern for the Croats in Hungary, I only spoke at how much symbolic level we often don't give enough. Here's an example for you of that Croatian day in Hungary where from the top of the state while I'm leaving, while I've been going for the last five years I don't know there was no one, no one. You come from the office, well done, no, it's not, now I don't know if you were at the last one, if someone was okay, but while I was going, I wasn't anybody. The school home in Osijek and the care of the Hungarians in Croatia is indeed envious and should be, but the dormitory is only being built now, and you know when it should have been built, long before, long before, but well. I think symbolism is much more important here, as we treat ourselves, let's say textbooks that are a very decisive thing for donations, let's say it's not solved, and that's a very important question for those who learn Croatian and Hungarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165201	Mr. Miles' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165202	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, and I am sitting right next to the Secretary of State Zdravka Busic, whom I personally had the opportunity to see countless times, and you can check it with Mr. Gugan, Mr. Solko, with anyone, so the Secretary of State for Political Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, I do not know how many times she has been in Hungary on all possible activities and all that the Croatian community is doing there. So it's not exactly how you see it or what someone tells you. So we really try and believe that it can always be better, but to do it and to do it and to do it, we will do it for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165203	Thank you. Another replica, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165204	Thank you very much. Mr. Milos, at the beginning of his opening presentation, you said that the issue of care for Croats should be an extra-biased issue, I fully agree with that, and so we should really treat it and make a constructive contribution to everyone on our side as much as possible to improve their position in any country, but you still failed to resist this challenge to not mention the SDP government and to give less money to Croats in Hungary or I don't know anything else. We gave as much money as we had in the budget, in the budget, and you know that we inherited the state with the defacto broken state budget, then it's no wonder you can't give as much as you want but as much as you can. But you tell me, the theater in Pećah, did the government supply any funds at the expense of that theatre for its operational functioning or not, or did it just help as you said through the Ministry of Culture in certain segments?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165205	Mr. Miles' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165206	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Klisovic, look, I agree with what you said at the beginning, so my introduction was like that, but some things we simply have to say, compromise in a way that makes them clearer, so so also colleagues Hajdukovic and I sat in a previous meeting if I am not mistaken that my colleague was a representative and we have all followed the work, care and all that goes towards the Croats in Hungary. I've never heard such connotations, so there's something about it, so to explain something, we have to compare to someone, and we have no one else but the government that was before us. Is something donated or are some means of the day? I said the land was bought and that was the deal between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Hungary, the land was bought for the Croatian theatre. This year, I repeat, there is no operational what, because the theatre is in function and the government of the Republic of Croatia is all co-operation that comes from our country therefore supports through the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia. And I think it's one cooperation that's really good and that needs to be continued. [[Thank you very much.]] It's exactly what it is today. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165207	Thank you. I'll take that freedom to say that in the last meeting Mr. Hajdukovic and I had a meeting with the Hungarian delegation of Croats and they told us about the excellent opportunities they had. Mr. Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165208	Mr. Milos, I really can't resist the challenge that you put and how you bring down the level or how money is channeled and how it matters is the total life of our people outside the Republic of Croatia. I'll tell you that your life has denied you, here's a concrete question. Why is not co-financed to a sufficient extent, last year almost nothing, and now I think that even the Christmas concert in Sarajevo, the Christmas concert in Sarajevo, means the official policy that are the ears, eyes and ears of the Croatian foreign policy towards BiH, we are to this extent.../incomprehensible/... and why, and why, if our interest is a total political being in BiH, why is it not the centre of that political being right in Sarajevo?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165209	Thank you. Mr. Miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165210	Thank you very much. Your Honor, sir, for a while. We co-financed a Christmas concert in Sarajevo last year. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165211	Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165212	Thank you very much, Vice President. I met with Ivan Gugan, informally the president of the Croatian Community in Hungary. They are extremely pleased with your work and organisation of the Croatian minority in Hungary. As far as I know, the City of Zagreb bought land for the theatre in Pećah, therefore, but we need to know that Croats in Hungary can be in parliament, but I cannot vote, no minority can vote. It's something new that we're not. And I asked him what the standard is, he says it's similar to yours. So, we're talking from here, and it's always better somewhere else than with us. So, I'm so just gonna say about how the Croats live there in Hungary, they're happy with the Hungarian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165213	Let's move on. Mr. Vuketic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165214	Here's a thank you. Dear Secretary of State, you spoke several times in the presentation about how satisfied the Croats are with the current political leadership and decisions the current political leadership is making. I believe that none of them are the only instrument of pleasure, nor is it the pleasure of being able to measure. The only sentence you started with, I'm not sure you know. Well, I didn't want you to know, for example, that I represented the Croats from Boka Kotorska, that I held a press conference, that I held a break here when Croatian culture in Boka Kotorska was threatened, when an attempt was made on the Croatian trail by official Montenegrin politics. I did not think that they were satisfied or dissatisfied, but I felt that they were exposed to injustice, and one form of exposure is wrong when we observe them through our political satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165215	Mr. Miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165216	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I can only congratulate you on this commitment and commitment to the Croatian national community in Montenegro and ask you to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165217	In the end, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165218	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State here some time ago was a delegation of the German parliament here in the assembly of the Republic of Croatia, he was the only representative of the Croats who was in Germany's Bundestag. I asked then, and given the new wave of emigrantism, which unfortunately affected the Republic of Germany, according to other countries, what experience Germany has as much as Croats are involved in the political life of Germany. He said it was only at the municipal level, at the local level, that very few young people who are mostly educated include the political life of the country. Why am I saying that? Because I believe that in the dimension of this report, too, there is a part missing which is not only about money being invested but also about helping Croats in general, I am talking about emigration again, to get involved in the political countries in which they are and thus improve their status in that country. And what activities do you intend to take in this direction to help them?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165219	Answer, here you go, Mr. Miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165220	So I agree with you, but I find it difficult to talk about what the Bundestag representative is telling you, but in our communication with the Croats living in the Federal Republic of Germany, there are those who are in political life who are at the local level, which, at the state level, but look, the Croats there have other problems, so it is not easy to be in the policy of the Federal Republic of Germany, given the legal constraints that these people have, so I am talking about citizenship and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165221	We now move to individual debates Mr. Zeljko Ragug has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165222	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary Milas, Bušić with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is rare that a debate in the Croatian Parliament is politicised as a debate on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Although we have a full report in front of us showing great progress in the work of the Central State Office for Croatians outside of Croatia, although there were facts that suggest that the government of the Republic of Croatia singles out more funds for both the Croats in BiH and Croats in the status of national minorities for Croats in emigration, what our debate today shows is particularly part of the pauses and at the beginning of today's session is a conflict of various political programmes, political ideas that were fundamental political ideas between the Croats in the 19th and 20th centuries. This is therefore the idea of Croatia's state independence whose one segment of BiH involves the equality of Croats in BiH or different forms of their autonomy and political idea of sheeting, celebrations, Yugoslavisms that are not present today in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, but appear as a rush in discussions of colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. It would be good if they were not aware of it, when they do so unconsciously, and I think that today there is no Jurisdiction in the political life of the Republic of Croatia and I am not one of those who will respect someone as said by fellow Vučetic, instruments for measuring and Croatianism and anything else that is our personal autonomy, looks at our social reality in the Republic and the reality of Croatian emigration that we are talking about today, especially the Croats in BiH. But what is fundamentally none of these ideas, apart from the idea of Croatian state independence, did not mean, in particular, the Yugoslav idea except for the foggy that it showed the Homeland War, there would be no conflict if it were not such, hazy, godless equality of Croats in the former Yugoslavia and especially in the BiH area. But what is it? When the Croatian nation, especially after the referendum, decided on state independence and when the Croatian Constitution was written, it was mentioned by the original grounds on the grounds that the creation of an independent state after the 1990s was actually the restoration of an independent state of Croatia in the '40s into the original foundations and said that some of the movements in World War II had been for Croatian state independence and were foggy. In one part sure, it is also stated in the Constitutions later after '45. But it also served some to abuse that fact, to take measures of who's fascist, who's anti-fascist. So we could listen in the past two, three decades, even from the president of the Republic of Croatia to how the Croats are fascists, this much or so. Of the presidents, former Croatian government presidents that there is now fascism in the Republic of Croatia and in BiH there are all fascists. If it is said that half the Croats in the Republic of Croatia are anti-fascists, what would be the other half? It's fascists. And that's not what he's reacting to. It reacts from some justifiably more or less, appropriately or inappropriately when it is done by one of the representatives of the Serb minority in the Republic of Croatia and what the former presidents of the Republic of Croatia, former Prime Ministers of the Republic of Croatia, the former foreign ministers, it is silenced and there is no hero to establish it and to ask the state's attorney to examine these things, assess them in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I'm saying this for reasons, not to hold up the political public of the Republic of Croatia, but because I'm on occasion to see the negative consequences of such a relationship, such irresponsibility when it comes to BiH Croats. From the 1990s to today, all political parties, all political programmes in the political life of the Republic of Croatia differ only in one simple fact, is that you BiH Croats are an equal people, to practice in the political life of BiH the instruments of political autonomy as practiced by Serbs and Bosniaks, or do you really think that we should be a national minority there, that we should eventually disappear as the representatives of other peoples who bring the declarations you mentioned here today, and also the declaration of the SDA. We have proposed a declaration and the position of the Croatian people not because of the expectations that in the declaration adopted on 14 September at the SDA Congress in Sarajevo, we will repeat what was the subject and earlier declarations of the SDA, we do not know why today, through a minute, two at the level of some personal exhibitionism, everyone is looking for pauses and panicking what is happening in BiH and when we expect you to reach a consensus in the Croatian Parliament that we need then you are not in the mood to do so because you remain prisoners of politicizing our position and because our position in BiH, all these decades, is an excuse for criticising HDZ. The HDZ had certain gaps besides good moves. You had both but both should not be the subject of the debate at the moment when we are looking for solutions to help Croats in BiH, our minorities and Croatian emigrants. To correct my relationship, there will be an opportunity when we speak and report on the implementation of the declaration. It is high time we reached a consensus that the international public sees that the Croatian nation has a responsible relationship with BiH. It is not an individual issue of Dragan Covic, there are political parties that have reached consensus after the fact that in the three cycles of 2006 to 2014 and now again from '18 to '22. We have in BiH's political life the darkest practice of fascism. What's got niggers and what's bigger fascism than the fact that one nation takes the right to choose a representative for another nation. So Yugoslavia fell apart because of such a principle among other things and because of such a principle today Kosovo is an independent state, everyone remembers Sejda Bajramovic and we are talking here about talking to the top of BiH. So it is not the top of BiH's political violence, the top of BiH is a consensus among the legitimate political representatives of the people in BiH. The top of BiH is not Sarajevo. The top of BiH is not Reisul in Sarajevo, there are Orthodox people there, there are Catholics there, so the peoples who need to reach consensus, those who are well-intentioned, need to respect such things in a more appropriate way than at the level of some day-long manipulation talk about something that unfortunately needs to be known a little bit more. And that's not doctoring anyone, you need to know a little bit more. If a meeting is held in Belgrade these days, organised by Russia, which is attended by representatives of Bosniaks, Serbs, Turkey's president and has no objection as to why Bosniaks go to a meeting organised by Russia to object to Croats in BiH who communicate with Serbs in the same way as with Bosniaks. Right now, communication with Serbs should allow for more objective positioning of Bosniaks both towards Serbs and Croats and giving up their principles set out in the declaration and overall Croatian Serb relations can help improve these relations, stabilisation and opportunities in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165223	Thank you very much, Mr. Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165224	Dear Representative Raguž, I have one question for you, and this is the following, you all know that in Mostar Republic, funding hospitals, and that at the same time in our own country, means in the Republic of Croatia, we have hospitals that are in blockade, we have 8 billion kunas in health care that are resolved, the question of when they will be resolved, etc. and I think it would be important to ask yourself, and what is the attitude towards Croats in the Republic of Croatia because free is a good relationship with, quacks a good relationship with Croats in BiH if Croats in the Republic of Croatia because of their poor relationship with them comes out of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, HDZ's policy equally little likes Croats in both the Republic of Croatia and BiH, and it also showed in the past war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165225	Mr. Ragug's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165226	A colleague of Pernar, Croats in the Republic of Croatia and Croats in BiH, as well as Croats in the status of national minorities, especially Croats in Boka Kotorska, are part of a single Croatian nation and those who lead the Croatian nation, they should think about both of them and others, and about thirds. In Mostar, a large number of students from the Republic of Croatia studied, in Mostar there were assumptions that part of Croatians from the Neretva valley were being treated and that way we should think because we are one nation independent of what we are in two countries and on the other side of the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165227	Mr. Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165228	Thank you. Comrade Raguž, if I sum up what you've been saying about these relationships, then the issue of equality in multinational communities is actually the issue of federalism, or those leftovers that solve multinational relations. Politics is looking for practical solutions, but the idea of federalism in theory as a theory is developing or only gaining meaning and importance in the last 20 years, and it is not just a question of an instrument that could be applied in BiH, but from Spain to Great Britain if we want to talk about it. Here the question arises whether you think we should launch scientific projects, the bases that people who deal with this problem would create, and have experience from BiH, the Republic of Croatia, so if you will and Croatian problems in other countries. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165229	Mr. Ragug, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165230	Just like you told your colleague Tudjman with scientific projects, and they've been held for the past 3 years. and 3 scientific gatherings in Neum which, which dealt with exactly the issue of federalism of the necessary, therefore the forms of BiH organisation that still works in BiH in one work, but not on the principles of equality of the people and therefore the principle of federalism if practiced in BiH in a way that Croats have the same rights as Bosniaks and Serbs, use the same instruments of political autonomy to the level and third entity if they cannot realise their position through legitimate representation in BiH is exactly what can save BiH from the collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165231	Mr. Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165232	Mr. Raguž, what you're saying is not that it's not a daily manipulation, this is the result of permanent manipulation, meaning you're the wrong policy that has 200 000 Croats less in BiH's living spaces, you're justifying and hiding behind national interests, and even behind the declaration, you've also tried the declaration that was made in this home, covered and hidden that wrong policy. Don't do this, you should understand that you do not cover the overall interest of the Croatian political entity in the Republic of Croatia and what is the important interest of the Croatian people in BiH is the overall BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165233	Mr. Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165234	Therefore, you are objecting to the political party of the Croatian people in BiH who has been receiving majority support in the democratic elections since 1990.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165235	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165236	The party, therefore, does not interrupt me, the party also represents the Croatian people in BiH with other political parties within the Croatian National Assembly coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165237	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165238	And you support those Croats in political life in BiH recently with their engagements serving the SDA, and you are wondering today what the consequences of the SDA declaration will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165239	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165240	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165241	You're telling lies in this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165242	So serve those Croats who serve the SDA, or who commits violence against the Croatian people in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165243	... You are not a benchmark for Croatia, you and HDZ BiH are a benchmark for Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165244	Please don't, please don't pollemize, don't pollemize, I'll have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165245	... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165246	But don't pollemize, please, I'm telling you, don't pollemize. Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165247	Dear Secretary of State, Your Honor, you are part of the sovereign and constitutional people in BiH, as BiH has been established, it is clear to all of us. I am interested in your opinion whether Serbia provides greater protection and assistance to Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina than the Croats, among other things the Serbs have the Republic of Serbia, and we or you do not have Herceg-Bosnia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165248	Thanks, buddy. Well, I think that's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165249	Mr. Ragug, you have a word you can speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165250	As part of the peace agreements for BiH, there was the possibility of an agreement on special relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH as the agreement operates between Republika Srpska and Serbia and the agreement is being implemented with all elements of social, political, economic life between Republika Srpska and Serbia. Those who object to the HDZ that it led a bad policy have just undermined such an agreement and have prevented the government from communicating with Croats in BiH within the Federation of BiH. When I was saying that you're not talking on the basis of facts, then those who object to me just show that they're just manipulators.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165251	Thank you very much. Mr. Vuketic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165252	Thank you. In your presentation, you said a whole piece of Yugoslavia, anti-fascism, fascism, Croatian what we should agree on and hope to agree on, which is that we should fight with all the forces to ensure that Croats achieve equality everywhere and that everyone is equal to the Croats. Furthermore, you talked about this idea of Yugoslavia and we keep going back to it. The idea of Yugoslavia experienced its final phase by forming states under the '74 Constitution. A year. We have a problem facing the past, some of these days and Conrad Adenauer's foundation said, we can't face the past, and we're constantly developing a housing complex. In Yugoslavia we were tenants, but in Croatia in the free democratic system we are not able to achieve equality and I see it as an inability to develop quality discussions in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165253	Mr. Ragug, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165254	Well, I think there's a quality debate going on. It is these very violent reactions that are due to the fact that we are talking about political life both in the Republic of Croatia and relations with Croats outside Croatia, and I think that's good. It wouldn't be good if we didn't show interest if we weren't passionate about the debates, but there's also going to be an opportunity to explain these things that we call manipulations even better today. But we must have patience, and we must allow others when they say that they can finish their thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165255	Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165256	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Ragug. At the beginning you said that this topic is politicized in the Croatian Parliament. It is good to talk, it is good to hear different opinions, but the fact is also that not only should the Croatian public but also many politicians explain the situation in BiH itself and if it is necessary to talk about it all day. Only after the SDA Declaration have many seen Dodig's reaction to self-determining the establishment of the gendarmes actually opened one Pandora's box because of the very declaration. But how to explain the fact that people in Croatia also know that BiH is a democratic country and the rule of law that local elections have not been held in Mostar for 11 years. So here's an explanation to the Croatian public. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165257	Mr. Ragug, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165258	The elections were not held in Mostar as conditions were made for Bosniaks to win the Mostar elections. And all those who think differently are simply not addressed to BiH. Of course, not only are the Bosniaks behind such ambition, there is also a part of the international community that incorrectly defies the principle of BiH's rule of law, but isn't it enough what happened and what we talked about today is that a Croatian member of the presidency is elected by the Bosniaks in three cycles. So one part of the Western countries stands by the Bosniaks, abuses opportunities in BiH, and the SDA declaration is important because the principles in the SDA declaration were fundamental to the cause of the war in BiH and the Serbian reaction is absolutely justified. Unfortunately, a Croat reaction in BiH, which is also justified, has not come across an understanding in the political life of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165259	And in the end, Mr. Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165260	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Raguž. You were talking about the Fascism of the Croatian people in BiH, we have witnessed that the Croatian people and the Croatian people themselves are being fascised. Many forget what our country is and what the Croatian people in BiH have done to defend BiH, many forget Croatia's role as signatories of the Washington and Dayton Agreement. Many unfortunately accept the claim that the Croatian Republic of Herceg-Bosnia is a criminal, and do not mention that it is analogous to the fact that the criminal and the Federation is BiH itself because if the verdicts were based on individual crimes, the measure would be collective, then it could be said that the entire BiH army is also criminal because both the chief commander of the BiH Army and the commander of the infamous mujahedin brigade and the commander of the 7th Corps were convicted before the international court. These double standards are unfortunately passing in Croatia, so I'm interested in your opinion on why that is the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165261	Mr. Ragug, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165262	Calling someone fascist is the basis for eliminating it from the country's political life, Croatia in BiH also from BiH's political life. And I will give an example from World War II, so the Chetniks, when they wanted to banish the Croats in my Eastern Herzegovina, then arranged for the Italians to understand the Italians who had run the area at the time so that they would understand that they were worshipping communist sympathisers. So we were expelled in September 1942 as communist sympathisers even though we were all squads sympathisers of the Croatian Peasant Party, but since the same in 1945 we have been tried as supporters of the Ustasha movement. So when we were to be chased, we were communists, and when we needed to be tried again, we were Ustasha. That's what this is about, which is why Fascism in the Republic of Croatia is encouraged to exist, although there can be no talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165263	Now it's Mr. Ante Babic who will have his individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165264	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with central Croatian State Office associates outside the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, respected colleagues and colleagues annual report on the work of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017 we had the opportunity to listen to this high home in the 6th month I am not wrong, at the beginning of the 6th month, and now here we are already at the 10th month discussing the 2018 report and when some data are compared then it can be seen that it is also part of the funds compared to 2017 increased which I certainly do, which I certainly commend. As far as the work of the central office itself is concerned, it should actually be said that it is watching out for all three components of the Croatian people, so it strengthens our emigration, our diaspora, it is very helpful and empowers Croatian national minorities in other countries, and in a special way it takes care of the Croats in BiH as a constituent people, or our countrymen. Of course, this is seen through the report and I think that this is a taxicab fellow Ljubic on behalf of the HDZ Club, so taxing all the projects, all the help, all the fact that the central state office is doing, and I will not repeat myself. What I might particularly point out, and also to the thinking of all of us, because we all show empathy towards the Croats in BiH, and among other things about your programme, it has actually awarded scholarships to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, so here I call on all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia that award scholarships at year level to their students to create a programme in cooperation with the central state office and that each city or municipality gives one or two scholarships to our country's compatriots from BiH, and here's counterpart Kovac knows that the Federal Republic of Germany is actually doing that, as far as I know, according to the November Germans and Germans in Poland, Romania and while East Germany was in East Germany in East Germany. So you can if you want to. As for the central state office itself and all that you do, it is definitely a great effort and a great commitment with a good organisation, it should be said that there is a permanent presence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the president and her activities, there is also the Central State Office for Housing, so they are all actually working to help or improve Croats outside the Republic of Croatia both for minorities, for our diaspora and for the Croats in BiH. The presence of the office itself and what counterpart Milas was saying today, especially in BiH, is extremely important for our people in BiH. It strengthens him, it strengthens him and actually stays in those places. This is also seen through the Embassy of the Republic of Sarajevo, but through consular representations which I welcome and I am glad to have them both in Livn and in Knights and in Banja Luka and in Tuzla and in Mostar. In addition to your report, the Government gave its opinion to the Republic of Croatia and is actually talking about a few things which are therefore read from what Mr Ljubic said, but also Mr Raguž and actually the Government stresses and strengthens it with your report and talks about constitutional justice, equality, and institutional equality of all three constituent peoples in BiH. And he's actually saying that no solution that comes from this fact is actually not acceptable to the government of the Republic of Croatia or acceptable to the Croats in BiH. That's what to say, because they're a constituent people. The delay in resolving the Croatian issue in BiH does not, in fact, contribute to BiH and its entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, and BiH should be very well aware of that. So each such a delay is also delaying their path to Euro-Atlantic integration. The Croatian interest is also the EU's interest because we are an EU member, so Croatia cannot lead one policy and Croatia can lead another policy, so Croatia's interest is also the EU's interest, which is the stability of BiH, which, in fact, follows European standards. Legal representatives of the Croatian people in BiH have full support of the Republic of Croatia. And that should be made clear. For those who say that the Republic of Croatia should not interfere in BiH, it does not, but supports the legitimate decisions of the Croatian representatives of the Croatian people in BiH. So let's say these planned and spent funds from this report may have a symbolic, symbolic meaning somewhere if I don't know how to help someone to make folk costumes or if it helps certain ethnic collections, but they also have a strategic meaning when helping both Mostar Hospital and Mostar University because it's important for the Croatian people. Until, this should be said, perhaps some have asked about health care, it seems to me that the Mostar hospital, there are not representatives from BiH, sends about 3% of its citizens to treatment in the Republic, and everything else is actually happening in Mostar, which is extremely, extremely important. I am also pleased to hear the thoughts of the office itself who recognized the moment to apply EU aid projects and help municipalities and cities, which is extremely important, on the other hand, Mr. Milos did not talk about it but I know that it is working through inter-resorial cooperation in the Republic of Croatia and helping craftsmen in BiH, which is very, very important for some companies like Konzum, such as Podravka, which should also be welcomed through inter-resorial co-operation. My suggestion is that I wouldn't waste my time, I'd be in three things I'd like the central state office to be very careful. Therefore, the children's allowance, changes and additions to children's allowances in this year should be made to ensure that the Croats from BiH also have the right to a child's allowance without their children having to be in the Republic of Croatia because it is the right of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia or parties under subsidiary protection as well as the refugees themselves who are in Croatia and asylum seekers in the Republic of Croatia. According to this logic, it should enable Croats to have the right to a child's allowance, regardless of their children's absence, because in orderly they pay their taxes and contributions to the Republic of Croatia. The other thing I said was, these are scholarships, I ask all municipalities and cities and you from the central state office to create one project, one letter to all municipalities and cities, some may not, and some may want to help through their projects the scholarship of children from BiH, especially those who are studying in the Republic of Croatia. And thirdly, it's a regulation on the allocation of funds, lottery funds and gambling, I ask you, there's always room for us to get a certain percentage amount of these lottery assets that are not small for the central government's office or for certain projects that can be designed even though one part of the funds, it seems to me to be about 10 percent that are for culture being given to a central state office that can further channel it for needs. And before the end, I will say just a little bit about the situation in BiH and the frustration of Croatian peoples themselves. So, since the end of the war, BiH has been permanent in the crisis of institutions and now these institutions have deteriorated. SDA's biggest party, Bakir Izetbegovic, is actually blocking the election of the chairman-in-Office minister because he should be a representative of the Serb people, on the other hand, Dodik's SNSD party does not bring an annual national programme related to NATO, the SDA is for NATO and the SDSS are not. The appointment of the chairman's minister should be approved by the BiH presidency and we know that this is impossible and that on the one hand Komsic "as a representative of the Croatian people" and he himself does not want to admit it. On the other hand, the SNSD is thus blocking the real work of the state parliament and the adoption of all laws related to the improvement of all BiH citizens and thus Croatian peoples. And the third thing, Croats actually do not want to participate with Dragan Covic in forming the BiH government because before that, he wanted to agree actually on amendments to the electoral legislation that would make it impossible to actually revote Croats in the Federation of BiH. The international community constantly encourages this, insists on it, but here are the leaders deafen and remain inexorable. All this time, it means 12 months. in the technical mandate of the Council of Ministers is actually run by Denis Zvisdic, when the SDA, which is to make the enthusiasm bigger and chair in the House of Representatives, so one nonsensus and why? Because it is a domestic situation of forming BiH authorities after the elections in a complicated political system of BiH I thank and support the natural report of the central state office. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165265	Time, and I thank you, time but you have one replica and it's from Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165266	Dear Representative Babic, let's assume that the problems of the Croats in BiH are being blamed by someone else. Let's start from the assumption that the government in BiH is dysfunctional, that representatives are elected by those who are not. But who, then, is to blame for Croatian problems in Croatia? Have you ever wondered that? Why has 300,000 people from Croatia moved away while this government shares free apartments and pays directors to third-world migrants, have you ever wondered that? Why can't Croatian citizens who are poor ask the state to give them free apartments and pay directors? I think you're conducting an anti-national policy, an anti-Croatian policy, and that this policy will eventually go round the head of the Croatian people, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165267	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165268	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pernar, the government in BiH is not functioning, we have now had the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Marrakesh where they were not representatives of BiH and should have been because it is extremely important for them but only because they are not named. So neither at that level nor at the level of the Federation of BiH presidency nor at the Council of Ministers, it does not work. As for the problems in the Republic of Croatia that you see, I don't look at them, these problems that are in the Republic of Croatia, there are also in all other EU members, somewhere more, somewhere less, aware of the fact that we lived in one country of war itself, refugees, all of what happened to us, and in fact, the situation in the Republic of Croatia, which I think is extremely good, can certainly be better, after all, when you look at macroeconomic and everything that is, will actually be clear to you that the situation in Croatia is satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165269	Thank you. Now he's having his own debate, Mr. Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165270	Thank you very much, Mr. President, first of all, I would like to commend Mr. Secretary of State Zvonko Milas and his team on the work and on this report. I've had plenty of opportunities in the past years to be in touch with him and his employees, you see in the field how it works, in various countries and I must commend their... their commitment to work and can only ask them to continue to act in the interests of the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this brief debate, I will concentrate on 3 cases of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, first on Croats in Germany who are emigrants, on Croats in BiH, who are a constitutional people and on Croats in Serbia who form there, represent a minority. As for the Croats in Germany, which may be interesting for us here in the Republic of Croatia, many are said, often without numbers, their number has really grown amazingly, when I was still an ambassador to Germany, it was 2012. There were 224 000 of them and they have now reached almost 400,000, of course due to the liberalisation of the movement of our citizens on EU soil, in parallel to the Polish, there are nearly 900,000 in Germany, good Poland is even closer to the Republic of Germany geographically, so that it can be understood, and now that we are with Germany, there are two important things, of course, that those measures concerning Germany cannot be measures concerning BiH or Croats in Serbia, in Germany we should be helped in a way that our children can actually attend Croatian classes, that is the key, in Germany it is not the case of the federal country to the federal country, in some it is a system in Berlin, the second system in Baden-Wurttemberg, in one of the federal authorities funding teaching in Croatian language, in another federal state, it is not the case, in some of which is co-financed, but it is our responsibility in Croatia to ensure that we in Croatia's children in Croatia that we can enter the Croatian families in Croatia and Croatia. There are positive examples, there were a lot of Spanish people in Germany by the end of the 1980s and the number of Spanish people in Germany was halved, there are today, if I am not mistaken less, somewhere around 100,000, due to the economic recovery of Spain and due to the liberalisation of political life, we can achieve this here in the Republic of Croatia with smart measures and I have no doubt that Mr. Milos, who is often in Germany, will propose such measures to the Prime Minister and the entire Croatian government at all. As for BiH, the number of Croats there today according to the last census around 544 000, was in '91. 760,000. The Croats in BiH are threatened by the continuation of the spill, I am often there and, as, no, not as often as Mr. Milos, but I know that in those areas where there is economic life, where jobs are being opened, there the Croats remain. So it is crucial for the Croats in BiH in addition to these measures that we have social nature, help, I don't know, in the library in Zepć, I don't know how to modernize the school in Posje and other projects that should be praised, I need to make a programme of incentives for the owners in the Republic of Croatia to invest in BiH, to make it easier if they invest in BiH to open jobs there, and that would help the Croats in BiH most, which, as I have already said, leave when jobs are gone. You have in some micro regions, and here is Mr Babić, often there, let's say the Posje municipality neighbouring to the Milan region you have parts where people stay because there are jobs, and there are parts where people go without jobs, so you need to create jobs, the Republic of Croatia can help with effective measures in relation to the economies of the Republic of Croatia, this is possible and another model that I see is to continue to encourage municipalities and cities to partnerships with municipalities and cities in BiH, with county, between one county and another. And then we get to the third case when we talk about counties, that's the status of Croats in Serbia, recently there was one of our delegations of mayors, i.e. Mayor of Serbia, a commendable initiative, this may have to be done in BiH and Mr. Komadin, the mayor of the SDP said very clearly about the Croats in Serbia that their status there is not regulated as the regulated status of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia, I am glad that Mr. Komadin, not the mayor, said one HDZ mayor. Speaking of Croats in Serbia, there were 50 of them, 30 years ago. More than 150,000, more than 150,000, today there are 57 900 according to the last census. If we look at the separation, in the Republic of Croatia you have more than 10 mayors from the order of the Serb minority, you have more than 40 municipal or deputy heads of municipal and city authorities, and you have none in Serbia from the order of the Croatian minority, none. In the Republic of Serbia, more than 30,00 kn per head of the Serb minority is set aside at all levels of government, in Serbia 1,00 kn, that is the difference and, of course, we will have to insist that this change in relation to the Croats in Serbia, some small, small mini shifts will now seem to be one, one ceremony of the birth of Josip Ban Jelačić in Petrovaradin, so the highest representatives will come, not only our own, but also the Serbian authorities, it is, it is good, it is a good symbolism, but it needs to come to a breakthrough and it is only possible at the political level. I heard from fellow Mišic that you should go to reciprocity, look, we can look for reciprocity, but it is important to us if we are in Croatia to organize our own society. We in Croatia have our constitutional values, we have freedom, equality, respect for human rights, respect for national equality regardless of what someone else does. We will have to insist with colleagues in Serbia and with colleagues in BiH that Croats be equal in BiH and that Serbs be respected. But we must firstly take care of ourselves and that we here in Croatia have a society that is tolerated and that we are proud of what is good and that what is not good to criticise. But don't let us get a picture of our country that's not acceptable and that's not true. Here, yesterday there was an awful, disgusting act of anti-Semitism in Germany that should be clearly condemned, the German authorities supported on this plan but also compassionately with the Jewish community in Germany in Halle, the hometown of Hans Dietrich Genscher when there was an attack on the Jewish community, so it was shot, two people were killed. No one in Germany speaks of the Third Reich. The main Jewish community Schuster is talking about a new quality of quoting right extremism, there is no Third Reich and some crazy comparatives, and it must not be in Croatia either, and of course we in Croatia and those here in this House must do everything to protect these values, values written in the Croatian Constitution. So there is still much work to do when it comes to the rights of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, in particular in BiH and Serbia. In BiH, the federalism Mr Tudjman spoke of but also fellow Ljubic, a colleague of Raguž, must continue without it. I've spoken to the public many times... which was originally... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The state has turned into a federal state because of the reality of ethnic and cultural. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the only road that's possible in BiH. My colleagues, Milasu and my colleagues and colleagues, I want a lot of success as well as the Secretary of State, Mrs. Zdravki, cheers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165271	Mr. Pernar was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165272	Dear Representative Miro Kovac, I liked your mention of the victims of a terrorist attack in Halle, which was directed against the Jews, but I have never heard of you expressing sympathy or regret for the victims who were killed in, say, occupied Palestine when thousands of civilians in Gaza were killed for systematic bombing by the Israeli army. I haven't heard you ever talk about Palestinian children in Israeli prisons or, say, victims of US NATO wars that you support in which hundreds of thousands of people were killed just by the American hand. So I don't think that this selective list of victims gives the right picture of who's the real victim of globalism, or of this new world order that you support, and I actually feel like you're drawing attention from the real problem in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165273	Thank you very much. I will have to ask Mr. Kovac to wait just a few minutes while I welcome the very warm members of the 149th cherry brigade of the Croatian Army who are with us today. And thank you for sharing this more or less morning with us. [[Applause]] Now it's Mr. Kovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are no fewer and more valuable victims. Every victim is a victim and every disgusting act that leads to the victims we condemn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165275	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165276	Thank you very much, Mr. Kovac. I think that in your debate you have a little bit of a mix of standards, I would like, for example, to have our president act like Angela Merkel when it comes to some things from the past, then there would probably be no such connotations as you once mentioned in Croatia. For we must say once and for all what is evil and what is good, and it comes out of power. So Angela Merkel promotes antifascism and promotes the values of free Europe. And that's why there are no connotations like this in Germany that sometimes, unfortunately, happen with us. So by the time we reach those standards, it probably won't be happening in Croatia either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165277	Mr. Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165278	Mr Maras, we in Croatia have the Constitution and constitutional values most that we owe, which are here in the Croatian Parliament but also those who are in the executive power to implement and live. We're doing it. And when it comes to this thesis that Croatia is a country of crime or violence or hate, I reject and deny numbers and insist on it. Which doesn't mean we can rest, close our eyes and say it's not there. Unfortunately, it is a global evil but fortunately in Croatia it is not as expressed as elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165279	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165280	Dear colleague Kovac, you've been talking about how many of our people have moved to Germany. I was in Munich myself, I was talking to our priests, they told me that the number was growing every day. Our demographics like Mr. Stromota who left this government because of the lack of demographic measures say we have the lowest number ever born in the first seven months. It is 420 children less born than last year and you are the one who supports that policy every Friday, Plenkovic, Pupovac, Vrdoljak government, you are the one who supports that policy. Just as you escaped from allowing the debate on the Marrakech Agreement here in the Croatian Parliament when you did not allow a vote at all on the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the proposal of Mr. God Petrov Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Thanks to you, so many young people are leaving. from Croatia because you support Andrej Plenkovic and this government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165281	Mr. Kovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not going into these, in some controversy with you about the things you misrepresent, you're famous for it, and when it comes to demographics, so I've brought this information myself, so I'm not running away from it, I'm not running away from it as HDZ, but I say very clearly, that's what I've been telling my colleagues in Germany and elsewhere, that besides measures at the local level, at the county level, we need measures at the government level at European level. I'm going to be a little self-centered, so I'm going to say that what's now kind of a portfolio decided, the European Commission, the demographics I talked about last year, because that's the only time, if we have a single market then we need in addition to measures at government level, countermeasure measures because people go not to New Zealand or I don't know in China but go to Germany and elsewhere and we're also a team covered by Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Bulgaria, etc., unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165283	Excuse me, thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165284	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Kovac, you say and spoke of economic preconditions as conditions for the survival of Croats in BiH and where there are jobs, in fact, that Croats remain there. But I agree with that, too, but we should talk about political instability about fear among representatives of the Croatian people in BiH mainly in the Federation of BiH and political advocacy to international institutions which some of them are not even aware of the situation itself in BiH. So, I am sure and welcome the economic preconditions, but also the political conditions are very, very desirable and important in BiH for the stay of Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165285	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Kovac's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165286	Mr Babić disagreed absolutely, of course that the precondition of the survival of Croats is their political equality and should work on it, I said, I will repeat that federalisation is the only possible way, the continuation means federalisation of BiH is already a federal state and consists of two parts of the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska entities, but I repeat my thought and will come to this, their equality will come. However, I repeat the basic thought that is the economy, people need jobs, I was in Skopje, Gornji Vakufu a year ago, two at my friend's, there were employees of Croats, one factory closed down, the outflow continues, so the important jobs are that people can live off work, out of their pension, if that's not the case then leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165287	And on King Mr. Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165288	You spoke of the defamation of the Republic of Croatia for the Ustashaisation, Fascision, Ustasophilia that even comes from the ranks of this assembly and the high officials of the truth of the former, I see it as pure auto-destruction. Some years ago, as an example of Fascision, the marching of a marginal legal group was mentioned through Ban Jelačić Square, which wore the alleged flags of the neo-Nazi German NPD party, while the NPD had 7 mandates in Bundestag 20 years ago, is now represented in two, two provinces of Germany, and this marginal legal group is light years away from any parliament, including municipal ones. Therefore, no one in Germany, as you said, is talking about Fascism, the establishment of the Third Reich, you mentioned that this is a sad incident and an attack on the Jewish community in Halle, so this is how it is therefore representing its own country, and not slander, so this is a real problem for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165289	Mr. Kovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased to agree with my colleague Ljubic, I repeat, I will go on a little bit now, so that someone is imputing that there is fascism in Croatia and that Ustashaisation is one project, one project of Croatian debauchery on an international scale. To be honest, I don't believe that this can achieve any greater propaganda success. We are where we are, in the political west of the Republic of Croatia, we are where we are. Someone else is somewhere else and let them think about why they are somewhere else, and we will make our values, our values here in the Croatian Parliament and elsewhere, I will protect them, but when real abuses come, then I will make it clear that there is no such thing in Croatia, and elsewhere in Europe there are political murders, and there is no talking about fascism, or.../incomprehensible/... and anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165291	Thank you, too. Now it's time for the gentleman, pardon Ljubica Maskichuk, to have his own debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165292	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretary and State Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues is before us today the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Strategy and the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2018, let me, as well as most of my predecessors, praise the Central State Office for Croats outside the Croatians who is visible and recognizable by their work on the ground. Any help she has is either strategically or individually welcome to the Croats in BiH, but also to Croats where there are minorities. The central state office must initiate legislation that will certainly facilitate and improve the life of Croats as is initiated by the Law on Citizenship. BiH's stability is of course an interest to the Republic of Croatia, but also to the entire EU. BiH is the state of the Croatian people and we must not give it up, the Croatian people are constitutional and equal with the other two peoples in BiH, but in order to help the survival of Croats, of course, and the return of those who moved out during the war, we must help them and, together with them, create a prerequisite for what this central office, of course, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and do. I welcome these funds that the central state office and the government of the Republic of Croatia increase by 20% by 2018, especially by commending this is the promotion and creation of new jobs, and of course initiated cooperation of the HGK with the Federal Economic Chamber. Also the Register of Croatian entities outside the Republic of Croatia, networking of Croats around the world and connecting them with their homeland. I see it's a pilot project, I hope some of the effects are already visible, so here's the Secretary of State to get a little closer to us in his final address. Of course, here we can see in this report that the registration quota for members of the Croatian national minority in colleges also had a significant figure this year, as well as a scholarship of 502 scholarships. In 2018 it started to strengthen and broadcast new software content, correspondence opened in Mostar and Sarajevo, I hope that it will not stop and will be initiated to open some correspondence in Tuzla or somewhere in Central Bosnia, a Croatian language course, networking of primary schools in Croatia and BiH. To encourage and strengthen the Croatian people in BiH, funds for education, health care, culture and other areas have been allocated. The goal is certainly to strengthen Croatian minority communities and it is seen that there are financially supported programmes for minorities in Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Italy, Kosovo, Hungary, which is for every praise. And concern for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is an integral part of the internal and foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, its aim is to preserve and strengthen the development of Croatian community, economic and general progress both Croatians in their homeland and Croats outside their homeland. Of course I support and welcome the work of this central state office, as well as all the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that makes to improve the lives of Croats in BiH, as well as Croats outside Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165293	Thank you very much. There's no replica. Mr. Petar Škorić will have his own debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165294	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here is the connection and potential of Croatian emigration with the motherland, and unfortunately, if we look from the beginning of the Croatian state to today, little has been achieved. We know that at the beginning of the war, war traumas from the 1990s left a mark and prevented these efforts, we know that the first Croatian President, Dr Franjo Tudjman, called and called for and encouraged emigration and return, but Croatia unfortunately did not have a consistent policy towards Croats outside Croatia, and we could hear this today through today's debate, especially the views of colleagues Raguž and Ljubic who spoke about the position of the Croatian people in BiH. 30 years after the reconstruction of Croatia as an independent state, it is time to consider changing the paradigm towards Croatian emigration by preserving the gains of the policies we have led. I am therefore more inclined to focus instead of the concept of integration and the process of integration which most often refers in its being on connecting something different and related in this case on the integration of all evicted Croats into the state political order of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is their home, they are children of Croatian people and it is time to give them back their political rights, and primarily the right to decide on Croatian statehood and Croatian national policies. In recent years, we have recorded shifts in Croatian state authorities' relations with a number of diaspora outside Croatia. In doing so, I particularly refer to the position and the day of support for the Croats in BiH as well as the political and demographic most vulnerable community of Croats outside Croatia, in addition to those living in Serbia who are in the far most difficult position. Why do I point out the Croats in BiH? Because there is no total Croatian national statehood without their sovereignty in those areas. Since Croatian statehood is limited to two countries at the same time and is not subject to borders since it is about Croatian historical living spaces where we have both the natural and international right to full sovereignty, it is not possible to talk about Croatian statehood without the full sovereignty of the Croatian people in BiH. The Croats in BiH are not emigrants, they are primarily indigenous sovereign people who in political terms BiH does not represent a minority group but also under the Constitution of BiH one of the three sovereign nations, and I underline, without whose full sovereignty there is no possibility of establishing a community called the BiH state. Without the consistency of the Croatian people in BiH, BiH cannot survive this way. Today's trends in the global political force and pressure of Bosniaks as the most numerous constituent people, and particularly poor economic prospects and a lack of political system, lead unfortunately to the emigration and discharge of territories that have been inhabited for years and centuries by Croats and this Croatian and Croatian state policy, not because of the interest of Croats in BiH, but because of the interest of Croats in any part of the territory of today's Republic or anywhere in the world must be the primary political interest and question of the practical survival of the Croatian people as a whole. In this regard, I welcome the efforts made to support the return and remainder of the Croats, and to preserve their equality in the institutions and political life of BiH, but I believe it is necessary today to stress that the Republic of Croatia must define a minimum political basis with the requirement that BiH be established as the only possible state union of 3 sovereign nations with 3 constituent republics without which the Croatian people of BiH threaten to disappear. In any case, I positively assess the data that speaks of the increase in funds for projects and programmes, hence Croatian emigration and Croats in BiH. I believe that this is well-detectable as one of the ways in which funding is achieved through educational, cultural, scientific, health programmes and projects, but these are maintenance policies which will not be generated by strategic policy without strong national policies on the status of the Croatian people in BiH. All these projects are selected according to the criteria that will bring long-term benefits to the Croatian people. The current Government and the President of the Republic have made a major step in the identity verification and approximation of the Croatian people outside the Republic to its queen, in which the State Office of fellow Members of Milas also contributed, but I repeat, all these measures will only get full meaning and flourish by political integration of the entire Croatian people into the state political order, and this must be a priority or question to all the survival of our statehood. So, all of this assistance and the measures mentioned here in the office's report I find necessary and welcome and despite the positive shift and the level of support and its division throughout BiH in one part, I consider it secondary. Why do I say that? Well, because Croats are currently the fewth nation in BiH and are on the verge of disappearing, they are fighting not only for their political position and retaining the status of the sovereign people, but also for their naked physical survival. So everything previously counted is necessary, but it is not primarily and necessary for the survival of Croats in BiH. It is primarily in the Croatian international community to achieve the agreement and principle of the necessary sustainable sovereignty of our peoples in BiH because the sovereignty of the Croatian people in BiH is an integral part of the overall national sovereignty of the Croatian people, which is why it must be our strategic interest and goal under which no one in the Republic of Croatia should go because it is an unacceptable practice that from Croatia's territory of the Republic of Croatia also threatens and attacks against the sovereignty of the Croatian people of BiH, to criminalise its liberating army of HVO, its fight for freedom and its heroes and sanctification until the open threats to war because of the request for sovereignty from our state television as in the case of Bakir Izebegovic, this is extremely unacceptable. I therefore consider the primary need to strengthen political and integrated and then economic and demographic measures that will boost the protection of the position and objectives of Croats in BiH as well as the protection of the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. In my last address half a year ago, I encouraged the introduction of certain opportunities to introduce economic measures and investment in capital, so economic survival is a prerequisite for people to stay in these areas and it is necessary to find a way to encourage both Croatian companies and emigrants and businessmen from the Republic of Croatia and from around the world to start their jobs in BiH. I believe that there should be ways for these entrepreneurs and their companies to be made possible both tax and other reliefs in order to encourage them to start production and other business activities in the areas where Croats live because without work, without, neither pay nor decent life can be provided, and this encourages people to move out. And the other thing is demographics, comparing data on demographics in the last 7-8 years. e.g. In central Bosnia, we have a decline in Bosniaks about 5-6%, while in the same period we have a 30% decline, for comparison of the number of born in Mostar in the last year there were 694 children born, so more are born in Mostar itself than in all of Bosnia, this trend is the most visible here through the first classes, the enrollment in the first classes where we experienced a significant demographic decline and Croats unfortunately currently have most of the only ones in Knights and Kreshevo, while here and Kiseljak has more first class compared to the Croats. All this points to a catastrophic demographic future for Croats in the area. It is therefore necessary to include the wider circle of Croatian children from BiH into the system and maternity and support, it is unthinkable that no children's extra charge for the Croats, who are employed in the Republic of Croatia, which also has been repeatedly warned from this constituencies, the possibility of introducing one-off money support for every child born to parents who have a permanent residence in the municipalities where we disappear, would thus certainly have a positive impact on these negative demographic trends and thus perhaps also allow for stopping the fall of children born and several hundred born long-term positive effects, so on every part of BiH. And the conclusion is to continue funding and educational and cultural and cultural and scientific and health programmes and projects that are of interest to the Croatian people anywhere in the world, and especially in BiH, at the present level, if possible and more to implement the evaluation of these investments, if, but as primaryly, I believe that we need to find a way to introduce economic and demographic measures that will enable people to survive naked because I say, all of these measures and educational, and health, and culturally, are pointless if Croats disappear from these areas Therefore, [[Intruder: Time]] I think the time has come to revise the strategy and the law, thank you very much and to consider these measures for introducing into this area. [[Intruder: Time Mr. Škorić, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165295	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165296	Thank you very much Mr. Škorić, you said in your debate on policy consistency, unfortunately HDZ policy is consistent to this extent that people in hundreds of thousands leave the Republic and the diaspora is growing every day. So in the past 3 years of the government's term of office, Andrej Plenkovic, Croatia has left more than 150 000 of our citizens. And it's the only constant and consistency that unfortunately rules in your government and on the other hand, I've heard debates that it's good to increase 20% of the separation for this office. So if there's funding, we can talk about it. And then the problem is to raise the salaries to Croatian teachers and teachers and give them what they deserve and what they deserve with daily hard work. 20% of the problem is not to increase this budget and on the other hand, 10 or 7% of the problem is to raise the salaries of our teachers and teachers, and that's the problem I want to mention here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165297	Answer, Mr. Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165298	Thank you very much. Well, here's a distinguished colleague, the topic is a discussion on the Report of the Strategy and the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia and BiH, therefore your political mantras and your turn to other topics will not lead you in the desired direction, so you have confirmed and shown what your relationship with people outside Croatia is not now in these 30 years of creation but also in the previous country whose party you are next.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165299	Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165300	Thank you very much. 238, obviously like a tear, means clean as a mountain stream He's hurt and now I'm going to explain. [[/Intruder Radin: But what?]] So Mr. Škorić, Article 238 of the Rules of Procedure was injured, Mr. Škorić constantly insinuated my relationship to the Croatian diaspora as negative and I don't know why he mentioned a party of the former system where most people from that party went to HDZ but what is particularly strange is that Mr. Škorić, who drives with HDZ people from Croatia, I object to these people. [[Intruder Radin: timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165301	Time out and the article you cited does not talk about insinuations...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165302	.../Intruder Maras: The embarrassing relationship between HDZ and Mr. Skoric towards these people./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165303	...then you earned your first warning today, please sit down. Because you have abused the Rules of Procedure [[/Intruder Maras: Why, sir?]] We have another replica, Mr. Stier. [[And in Mr. Skoric they're okay?]] You'll have more opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165304	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is counterpart Škorić, you have well indicated BiH's importance for the national security of the Republic of Croatia that Croatia and BiH are actually one geostrategic whole... where it is necessary precisely for the national security of the Republic of Croatia to comply with European rules, economic, energy, transport connections between the Republic of Croatia and BiH and security in NATO's coverage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those who think that if we are less present in BiH that it will be better in the Republic of Croatia simply do not understand what is the essence of the state and of course what is the well-being of Croatian citizens. So that synergy and that whole is simply an necessity and I'm glad you pointed out that in your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165305	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165306	Thank you fellow Stier, you're absolutely right, so the uniqueness of this space. Regardless of what two different states are concerned, it confirms the uniqueness of the Croatian National Corps, so me, I am sad when in the part of the Croats we see that they do not see BiH as the homeland of the Croatian people. We had a historical destiny and we have two countries. Therefore, we know about the role of Croats in BiH, we know about the historical dimension and give up our people is wrong. Therefore, this government, this office does everything and does everything to facilitate their position, to give them some motivation to survive in these areas in order to ensure both the future and the strategic depth and security of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165307	Thank you very much, we are moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165308	I thank Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, in my debate in front of the club I systematically manifested myself, so in a report from the Central State Office, which he supported, of course. I have come to the individual debate to talk about this issue from the point of view of the elected Croatian representative outside the Republic of Croatia,... A political representative of the Croats from BiH because there are actually some things here in HS that need to be clarified, at least in the sense. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The assessment of the relevant institutions of the Republic of Croatia is that today, out of the Republic of Croatia, more than 3.5 million of our compatriots who are still aware of Croatian national identity. Therefore, we can only talk about the full implementation of the strategy and the law in relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia if all of us Croatian citizens, and we, in particular, take this issue as a strategic national rather than a particular party interest. Is it always so let everyone speak for their own name. We who come outside the Republic of Croatia sometimes have the impression that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia see themselves as a burden, as a voting machine of a particular party, poor relatives from the province that spoil our European image or as an ideological question, of course I reject it. The well-intentioned citizens of the Republic of Croatia know that the Croatian diaspora has therefore contributed decisively to the establishment of democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia, diplomatic recognition of the Republic of Croatia, the defence of the Republic of Croatia against aggression. In financial terms alone, it is estimated that between 1991 and 2011, more than $100 billion has entered the country from the diaspora, and today it is estimated that more than EUR 2 billion is coming from the diaspora in the Republic of Croatia, which is about 10% of the RS budget. When we know that it is extremely hypocritical, and it is offensive to hear from opponents of the vote of our citizens outside the Republic of Croatia that those who do not pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia should not even vote in it. Dal someone asked those who came from the diaspora to defend the country and died if they paid taxes to the homeland. Croatian citizens, especially Croatian defenders, well know who stood side by side with them when defending the Republic of Croatia, they know that they are therefore in line with the National Guard Assembly in Kranjčević's half so young soldiers either from BiH or from its origin. The well-intentioned citizens of the Republic of Croatia know that the citizens of Širok Brijeg and the western Herzegovina municipalities are on May 7th, 1991. Stand in the way of the tank column of two JNA Corpses headed towards Split in the event of an attack on Croatia's Republic of Croatia in Dalmatia. The citizens of Croatia know well what the Croatian coast of war meant for the Croatian hinterland in BiH, and I hope those in Ploča know. Therefore, the responsible policy in the Republic of Croatia should know that the preservation of the political subjectivity and consistency of the Croatian people in BiH and the provision to say long-term security, as well as the preservation of the state sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, which you spoke about earlier, by your colleagues Škoric and fellow Stier. The violation of the Washington and Dayton Peace Accords, which Croatia is a signator by the way and by obstructing the implementation of even the Constitutional Court of BiH's rulings, has repeatedly been impossible for Croats to choose even legitimate representatives in the Constitution's institutions for legitimate representation. So despite the best results of the Croatian National Assembly parties for the past 10 years, the majority in the Federation of BiH have chosen their candidate Zeljko Komsic in past elections as the Croatian presidency member so that today, the Croats alone do not have a representative in the presidency. As a result of the violation of Dayton's revote, political violence in BiH is not only affected by the Croats, but the consequences are suffered by everyone in BiH in terms of economic lagging, poverty, the departure of young educational people, a stalemate on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration because we can talk about Euro-Atlantic integration if we are unable to form power here over a year after the elections. Unfortunately, the election of Komsic and the attempt to elect illegal representatives to the House of Peoples met with the support of certain political and media circles in the Republic of Croatia. They justify it in a way that, for example, Under the same law, a legitimate Croatian member of the presidency, Dragan Covic, was elected in the past term. Let's not pretend to be English as our people say, the Constitution of BiH recognises in its preamble primarily as the country of the three constituent nations of Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs, so BiH according to the Constitution and has three members of the presidency, representatives of the Serbian, Croatian and Bosniak people. So Zeljko Komsic's election is against the constitution, and the law called upon by the negatators of the Croatian political electoral legitimacy was declared by the Constitutional Court on 1 December 2016 by an unconstitutional, quoting part of paragraph 49. "The right to democratic decision is achieved by a legitimate political representation which must be based on the democratic choice of the community of citizens it represents and whose interests it represents." That's what the BiH Constitutional Court says. Is it clear now to Professor Josipovic, Mr Mesic, colleague Pusic, that he has made this choice for us Croats, we know it well. Do you know what he brought to Croatia? I will say, Croatia's appeal to the UN Secretary-General for the Law on the availability of state property, protest note for alleged activities and procedures of SOA, attempts to suspend the construction of the Peljega Bridge, slanders from the UN General Assembly's pay phone. I don't care about his slanders, but I'm worried about the support these slanders have here in Croatia. Former Croatian President Josipovic says I quote "Kosic's statement on individuals stands, but Ustasophilia also has support in a part of politics, media, public space, especially what I said in Jerusalem that the Ustasha snake continues to suck." What policies, what media? It seems that some here in Croatia cannot reconcile with the fall of the former system and the former state and therefore cannot forgive the Croatian policy that has contributed to the creation of the Croatian state and the defenders who have defended it. But do they realize how self-destructive it is and that it is returning to them as a boomerang if I slander my country in the world. I cannot deal with this because as a Croat who comes outside the Republic of Croatia, I am aware that only strong Croatia can help Croatians in the world and Croats in BiH and Croatian minorities. I welcomed the 5th channel of HRT for the diaspora of new programmes and shows, and I welcome the opening of correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar, but here I must say that I am not satisfied with the technical level and sometimes with the content, but I will talk about it when there is a talk here about HRT. However, this time I need to point out the use of some concepts in the Croatian political and media vocabulary. I read Bosnian Croats, etc. a few days ago on Teletext, etc. First of all, there are no Bosnian Croats, but only the Croats of BiH. I don't know how clearly it is here that... the centralist forces in BiH by imposing supranational Bosnia instead of Croatia and Serbia's national identity, the Bosnian language instead of Croatian and Serbian relativisation, until the abolition of the constitutionality of the people in BiH actually wants BiH to turn into a country dominated by the majority people, not even without a political background for the name of the state of Bosnia for BiH, which we have seen clearly in the programme declaration of the majority Bosniak party, the leading Bosniak party of the SDA. So the state of Bosnia, the language of Bosnian, the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina therefore dominates the one who is the majority. My colleagues and colleagues on the issues of the Croatian diaspora, I spoke exhaustively in front of the club, and most of all in the amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship. I support this law, the Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has proposed a few amendments that I hope will find a place in the government's formulations. I expect the debate on electronic and correspondence voting to be opened in the Croatian Parliament at least for Croats outside Croatia. I repeat what I said at the beginning, I support this report, I support the government's intention to make the Croatian government's maximum integration beyond Croatia, the social and economic life of the Republic of Croatia, support the action of the Croatian government, the Croatian prime minister, the Croatian president on the awareness of BiH's character as a possible state, and it is possible only as a state of three equal constituent nations and these political problems currently escalating in BiH to the extent that it is not possible to establish power in every way to say that it would not become a security problem tomorrow, and then Croatia as a country bordering over a thousand kilometers of BiH could have problems as well as Southeast Europe I therefore think that this should be taken seriously. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165309	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165310	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr Ljubic, you have said several times today that the Bosnian state, the Bosnian language, is being forced, in principle, not clear to me exactly who you were thinking about because I didn't hear it and today that you didn't think about someone in the SDP, because we're talking about BiH as a state, we're talking about three constituent people, and it wasn't really clear to me what you mean. Well, if you could explain a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165311	The answer of the respected representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165312	So I certainly didn't think of you, at least of you, and I'm not sure that such concepts come from the SDP, but this morning, when asked for a break from my colleague Vučetic, in fact, this address on the SDA declaration, spoke about the state of Bosnia. I have recently referred to the HRT vocabulary, so state television uses the concept of Bosnian Croats, and it is more and more common to hear, so in some people it is because of the lack of information, therefore attempts to reduce language, but this is exactly what I am talking about here to raise awareness to the Croatian public, which is what this means in the Bosnian-Herzegovic so-called political and media discourse. That he's actually being abused and that's not a question of language reduction, that's a question of one policy that actually eliminates and calls Herzegovina a force name for Bosnia, so I repeat the language of Bosnian, so the people of Bosnian, the authority of the one who is the majority. So, I want to raise awareness to the Croatian public So that's a notional distinction. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165313	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165314	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubic, unfortunately, usually in such debates and debates, language distinctions prevail, and unfortunately it is pushed into the first plan. I think that the problem of people in BiH or, for example, in Herzegovina is that there is no work down there, there is no perspective, people are leaving Croatia, it is very difficult to start a family there and find a job that you can live on with dignity. People are leaving in Croatia, some are going to EU countries and are looking for their future. So we're getting caught up in the story of whether someone said in part Bosnian Croats or Bosnian-Herzegovic Croats instead of talking about how people normally live there. And if we push those topics into the first plan, it won't get us anywhere, so that country will never agree unless it's a priority to find people a chance to live down there from their work. That's what's important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165315	The answer of the respected representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165316	So, fellow Maras, people leave most of Europe for a better salary and a better life, and even Germany goes to America. So, it's not a problem for people to leave in particular from Herzegovina, the main problem is the lack of perspective in a country which is here a few days ago, so in Form Economics, the magazine is rated to 5 places among the world's poorest countries because of its economic problems. However, BiH's economic problems are not due to human incompetence and people's unemployment, BiH is rich in talented people, rich in natural resources, but the state's regulation is actually preventing these people from showing their potential. Of course, the threshold of tolerance in BiH is based on the fact that members of the EU are also personally through Croatian citizenship is certainly somewhat less than others, but I repeat, from BiH, everyone is leaving. I would even say that at this point in time when Germany opened up employment borders, perhaps even more are going away, so representatives of the Bosniak and Serbian people. Therefore, it is the problem of BiH, so the Croatian question is not only the problem of Croats but is the question the problems of BiH's functionality and sustainability. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165317	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mirsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165318	Dear fellow Ljubic would be interesting to see how much money Croatia has saved from independence in BiH so far, I think it counts in billions of kunas as much as we have already given in Bosnia, and this has resulted in the number of Croats in BiH becoming less and less. The early ones we see will know it better than I do if we have about 320,000 Bosnian-Herzegovian citizens who have a Croatian passport, so I ask you whether it is moral for people who have dual citizenship to use this dual citizenship to avoid the persecution of the Croatian judiciary and that is something that bothers citizens in Croatia, it bothers all those who respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, and we are witnessing that in a number of examples that people who have dual citizenship used that dual citizenship to hide from the Croatian judiciary. So I'm just asking if it's moral, do you approve?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165319	The answer of the respected representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165320	I want to talk to you today about categories of facts and laws, and.../incomprehensible/... morals. So, you're troublesome about the total aid sent by the Republic of Croatia to BiH, and you're forgetting the fact that Croatia is making, therefore, a trade chief, a surplus every year with BiH over EUR 700 million, so in 10 years, that surplus has grown to EUR 7 billion, all highways have been made, could have been made by these means, these are the facts. On the other hand, today there have been speeches about the fact that many BiH citizens, Croatian citizens whose families in BiH are not paid extras on what they are entitled to, therefore there are a lot of rights that have not yet been realised, and we are now talking about this right which is therefore in relation to these funds being poured into the Republic based on facts and facts which are Croats down as a people, as a part of the government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165321	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Milas with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, so here we are today discussing the report on implementation of the strategy and the Law on the relationship of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the country in 2018. The holder of these activities is exactly the office that you led, so the Government's Office of Relations, for Croats outside the homeland and I have listened carefully to your activities in the opening presentation you brought here before us and always can do better, I will say that you can always do better, but I think what your office is doing now is at one satisfactory level if you ask me. And since your office is only seven years old, so it's no wonder there's room for progress but it's good to see progress from year to year. And basically all that you have now stated in your opening statement shows that the SDP government was right when it founded this office in 2012 and that the SDP government did not make a mistake in setting up that office. You have also stated several times that this government has increased funds compared to the last government and that you cannot compare it with other governments and that is the case. Thus, the SDP government could not give more money in its mandate compared to a previous government because before that office it was simply not there, so it was formed by the SDP government. Your office is in addition to the position of Croats in BiH, which is the first in the description of your office's affairs, so it is also the most important business of Croatians in the other 12 countries in the world, but also with regard to all Croatian emigrants around the world, and it is important to highlight this. So, it is clear that the first is a priority, a relationship with the Croats in BiH, that this may have led to today's debate on the relationship with the Croats in BiH, and less on the other Croats in the world, for example. I will mention here even though we sometimes have a SDP premise that we do not have a good relationship with the diaspora, not all of us will be fenced again, but some of us, even to the Croats in BiH, are not. So, the very fact that the SDP government and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic founded this office to improve relations and government and implement a strategy towards the Croatians' relationship shows that the SDP and our government treated Croats outside the country. The second thing, I will remind you when the burnings of the HDZ buildings in BiH were just as Zoran Milanovic, who was then the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, first went to BiH to visit representatives of the HDZ of BiH and to support them and to give support to the Croatian people who were in these problems that were happening there. Therefore, the fact that our government did not have a good relationship with the Croats in BiH, but in general with the Croatian diaspora. Secondly, I have now cited what is in your office's business description by some priorities, but what is certainly important for some future periods may put emphasis on Croatians who are leaving Croatia today and who are becoming so Croatian emigrants. In 2018, which we are discussing today in your report, which is what your report refers to, we are discussing everything, but that year, so that I will stick to that year alone, 45,000 Croats left Croatia. They went mainly to Germany, and about 70, 80% according to DZS, the rest went to other countries of the world. And that's where the government should actually follow the work of the office with its policies and monitor the work of the strategy and stop the eviction from the country or if it comes to work for those young people who usually leave the country as soon as they return to Croatia. But when the government implements a policy to say today we have a teacher strike for wage cuts, when we have a few days ago a strike of nurses, then it's certainly not a policy of good that helps prevent the emigration of young people from the Republic of Croatia. So we should warn them not only about the situation of Croats in BiH but about the situation of Croats leaving Croatia and going after bread with their stomachs, how more just society and fairer politics in Croatia allow them to if they have already gone back, and it would be best to keep them in Croatia if they do not leave at all. But with this government policy, which is not in synergy, which in the country's local politics drives young people from Croatia, we will certainly not contribute to the position of these young people in Croatia because, in general, those who leave today, not only for economic reasons, but also for the injustice they see in society, when we have a government that half of the ministers have left because of the suspicion of corruption, they are no longer interested in Croatia when they go out, unfortunately, they do not want to have any relations with our country, which is why they have gone. That's wrong. So in this field Croatia should work much more and government policy should be synchronised with the work of your office. And in all this, here I express to the global satisfaction of your office's work. I hope that the next budget will increase even more funds for your office, that you will strengthen your role and here I appeal to you that in some plans in the future of your work you will also foresee the care of these Croats leaving Croatia today for the situation in which our country is located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165323	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165324	He is a colleague, it was good that then the prime minister went to Mostar when he was supposed to, but also the same Prime Minister Milanovic here in the Parliament said that he who was not born and grew up in Croatia does not understand Croatia then cannot even love her. There he showed one line of ideological, some would say character, but behind which I hope no one will ever stand again, that he will apologize for it and that it will never happen again. In order not to stay on this alone, I am glad that you supported the work of the office and that you are willing to support it further and that you appreciate what the Office for Croatians outside Croatia does because I think it must be our common concern that those who want to return to do so really love Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165325	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165326	It's hard to tell me, I remember, that's what Prime Minister Milanovic told you at the time, and it caused a big storm here and in the assembly at that time. I believe he really didn't mean it. He may have been a little clumsy, but it's not my place to defend him now and explain what he meant. What I'm saying is that surely the SDP in its policies did not lead politics towards our diaspora in a way that we believe that those born outside Croatia or those living outside Croatia do not like Croatia. So you can't find any SDP moves, or the government led by Zoran Milanovic, or the SDP as a party, or any gesture that would refer to it. And I think that's good, and I think you'll be happy with that. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165327	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that I am simply protesting here with Vice-President of the Parliament what is constantly in Croatia and in the Croatian Parliament, I am not talking about this topic now, this is the situation every day of the current things that most of the day affecting our fellow citizens, such as the strike of educators or pension reforms, push as far away from the agenda as possible, so that today we will discuss the pension reform at the same time that Croatia is playing in Split. So this is unfortunately the insensitivity of HDZ and authorities towards the problems that Croatian citizens have. And this is my protest here as a representative that we cannot talk about it and that we cannot express these things to the Croatian public. As far as I'm concerned, and I'm not thinking about these few minutes that we have about 1 o'clock, I guess we should sublime everything in that, and today we have a HZMO report that is very important, which we practically forced to discuss at all in the assembly because HDZ didn't want to do it either. And we have gathered signatures and today will be discussed, though during the time Petkovic is likely to stick Hungarians on the people. So when we talk about this topic, usually the discussions on the report and implementation mean the Office's work on our emigrants are about how much money, how much of the programme is funded, and everyone agrees needs to be helped, should be given, there should be a certain level and cultural events, and I would say traditions in different parts of the world. And now what's bothering me is that we don't see it specifically or we can estimate whether I don't know it now 70 or yesterday 40 or 50 or tomorrow maybe 100 million kuna enough as it means, how it can be measured, etc. So these discussions are usually done in such a way that we will all support the need to provide support, that certain activities should be carried out in certain countries where our fellow Croats live. And on that side, no one will mind. But that we can properly assess what's enough, which isn't enough, I doubt it's possible and based on reports like this that I think are transparent at least. We have a list of all the activities that have been approved. Although we don't have a list of the activities that have been applied, or see if there have been any more requests that have been approved, which are not, as many requests as there have been, on the basis of which it was decided just to go to certain segments, I know there's a commission but usually it works in a way that's good with who, something goes by, something doesn't go away. And it would be good to see the number of activities in the report that are applied to know, we can estimate how many requests there are for certain things at all, and how much money we should, for example, cover everything. Because when you look at this report, then it gets into the eye that the vast majority of activities are being spent in the area and invested in the area that HDZ has been covering since the '90s and its political way and voting in the way it has. So you see there neatly not only is the party called the same but you see it neatly, as I would say it's almost the same policy, the political system that's been functioning since the '90s. The president or vice president of the HDZ is regularly attending activities politically below. And what happens to me is that part of the people down there is used by Croatia as a voting machine of the HDZ. In this case, it will likely try to be done in the presidential elections as well. We know that there were only 2,000, 3,000 votes in the previous presidential elections. When it all came together, there were over 30,000 votes of difference. And then, of course, citizens who pay taxes in Croatia wonder if this is fair and would it be fair to say that in Croatia, citizens are declared majority for one candidate to then, from the HDZ diaspora, usually and with the HDZ favourite, add votes and decide who will be Croatian president. We're going to have a very close fight between the two candidates now, and I'm sure it's going to be very tight, that it's going to be up and potentially that kind of situation is possible. And on that side, you finally have to say that you have to help, so where we are, where we've been for centuries, where culture needs to be maintained, but that it can't be tied to politics. The HDZ has violently tied this to politics with both the HDZ in BiH and their politicians. After all, we know how it worked in the '90s. So that's what I'm up against, and I don't think that's good, so that's what needs to be separated from both these reports and from and from me I'd say this tax finance that, paid by all of the citizens of the Republic to carry out certain activities. So what I said last year and this year I'm interested in, so there's a strategy to do, but I don't see that in many countries where our fellow citizens are unfortunately leaving there's not a single funded activity. Unfortunately, HDZ has driven out of the Republic of Croatia over the past 3 years. More than 20,000 of our fellow citizens in Ireland, I don't see any activity funded in Ireland. Not to mention other countries, both counterpart Kovac and Germany and other countries where it has been in the last 3 years. More than 150 000 Croatian citizens and gone from the Republic of Croatia, I do not see certain activities in some countries at all, Great Britain, Ireland, means almost nothing, usually it is and it is my fundamental objection and office, connected where the political HDZ has its own facilities and where it works, means Germany, Austria, BiH, so I'm almost sure that it works at that level because it can connect itself to the political activity and the number of activities and activities it has, but it is wrong, so this money is the money of Croatian citizens of all who paid it, and it simply needs to be separated by the Chinese wall from politics to then have a certain consensus all together and to be in the right and most transparent way possible to support it. So these communities can't be used by a political party that is then finally manifested in votes or local when it's down near Makarska, Vrgorac, Ploče or national when it comes to presidential elections and that's what unfortunately gives people the most, and unfortunately lives on by HDZ. So our people have a feeling that, that this money is used for you, for those purposes. If it weren't just, just this amount, so we have had situations in the past year where the hospital in Mostar has been rehabilitated several times by the Croatian government, so it should be added, the debts have been paid by medicines, we know that in the Republic of Croatia we have 3 billion kuna in health debt, meaning debt, meaning that things should be settled in the Republic of Croatia, and then gallant in some way towards hospitals in other countries, regardless of what in Mostar or Herzegovina live members of the Croatian people, but how to pay health debts in Mostar, and on the other hand not to pay debts in health care in the Republic, it's also something that we need to take care of or, for example, when I look at the activities that the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, it's almost amazing that in the 4th year. One million and 200,000,00 kn spent on 14 churches and donations of Zagreb's money in BiH, mostly in Herzegovina, means a million and 300,000,00 kn, which is the logic with which he has the plan, I think it's taxpayers' money, there should be some logic, there should be transparently made, that people need to know, there can't be helped you have political benefits and thus buy votes, unfortunately that's also the case with HDZ And at Mayor Bandic's office, he's doing it neatly. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165329	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165330	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State Milas, let's return to your introduction, so let's go treat this issue as a matter of supremacy, of supremacy, and so ask ourselves. I, as well as Mr Djujic, follow your work as well as the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the affairs of cooperation and ties with Croatian emigrants, and I must say that it seems to me that you are doing your job in the best faith, that you are doing your best, but believe me that the previous governments, including the SDP government, have also given this as well, and the confirmation of that is the very office that was founded during the term of our government because we have recognised the importance and importance of such a place that will help foreign policy in such an important issue as maintaining ties with the Croatian people abroad. We know you don't get as much support as any of the ministers you'd like to get from both the finance minister and the government as a whole, but that you're trying. But believe me, Minister Divjak does not get as much support as we can see for the teacher's salaries, nor does Minister Kujundzic for the salaries of doctors and nurses, but he does not need to fight, he does not need to stop. What I liked very much today in your presentation was that you mentioned that the office was concerned, and the foreign ministry should also be in synergy, about promoting Croatian language, especially among Croats abroad, those who are 2, 3 or perhaps more generations abroad, have already lost some of that standard Croatian language and can be very difficult to understand. I also lived on, abroad during my diplomatic career and can say that diplomatic, not diplomatic, but additional schools are a very important thing for Croatians, as well as for Croatian diplomats abroad, I have testified that if the child does not pass the school programme in Croatian that he will never be able to catch a language, or those terms of technique that we use in Croatian for various things. Yes, schools are expensive, teachers are expensive, especially abroad, but I think it must be one of the priorities if we want to keep that link between the Croatian people and us, the loss of language, and if we just switch to each other's foreign languages, we lose that, that relationship that we have, that knowledge that is crucial, that identity that makes the language of every nation. And yes, today it has been said and in many debates more and more Croats are moving out of the country and thus from the categories of Croatian people in Croatia become a category of Croats abroad and come to you for jurisdiction. It saddens me to read recently that 11,000 places in Croatian universities remain vacant. So I do not believe that the less interest of young people to study is, I believe that they have already gone well with their families, or unfortunately because of the poorer quality of Croatian universities, which we can see on the international rankings, they go abroad to study. But that step in those formative years when people fall in love and perhaps the first families begin to create is crucial. The period from 18 to 22, 23 years is crucial for people to stay in Croatia to continue to contribute and live in it. But they go out to study, and they don't come back after that. And that's what your office along with the Ministry of Science and Education should be doing. The status of Croats in different countries, especially neighbouring countries, is different. In some countries, they are a constituent people, such as in BiH, although they are not equal or feel equal as the Constitution guarantees them, even their representative in the BiH presidency did not choose but that was the Bosniaks' decision. Although I must admit that there are Croats in BiH as well as the Republic of Croatia in some way may have fallen prey to that trap that was set in Dayton with such vague text, subject to different interpretations in the BiH Constitution that regulates who represents whom in the BiH presidency. The hospital in Mostar is also mentioned, we are all aware of the problems in Croatian health and the need to finance hospital debt, but the hospital in Mostar has another additional element that is very important, I would say from at least the perspective of the Republic of Croatia as well as the university, which is that it does not serve only the treatment of Croats in BiH. It is the best, if not the best hospital in BiH and as far as I heard it when I came to the hospital in official capacity, there are also Bosniaks and Serbs. So the hospital can be another link between peoples to regain trust or build trust that is crucial to solving political, social and economic problems in that country. And that is why I would never criticise the financing of that hospital because its social role, not to say and the political role in BiH is much above that of course very important for people living in Mostar and not only in Mostar but throughout Herzegovina and throughout BiH. The status of Croats in some other countries is slightly different. Somewhere we also have a structural problem with their status, let's say the Bunjevac issue in Serbia. I wonder what the office or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done recently to stop or make it difficult for this policy of assimilation carried out by the Republic of Croatia, can now be said as part of its state policy of assimilation of parts of minorities, in this case the Croatian minority of people also called the Bunjeci? I don't think we should stay away from that kind of assimilation, because it's certainly not something that is both in the European spirit and in the interest of our country. It would be very important for your office, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to care for the fulfillment of all those contractual obligations with our neighbours, which are regulated by the contract with Croatia, and regarding the rights of our Croatian or smaller or constitutive people or something else, depends on their status in neighbouring countries. For example, it should insist naturally on Serbia's obligations under the agreement with Croatia on minorities and on the financing of textbooks in Croatian. They keep promising us that, they promise one government, one government, one, three, so maybe something small is funded, but it's never entirely the way it's supposed to be contracted. This should be under a microscope and react every time to meet the obligations Serbia must meet, eventually if it wants to join the EU. These are some of the things European countries do. Equally the financial commitment in other countries, we have Radio DUX in Tivt, a Croatian radio where Montenegro has taken over the obligation to co-finance its work, but it does not quite go in the way it is imagined. Nothing, I know that we cannot react and take money from the Montenegrin budget, but we can warn partners in Montenegro that it is also very important for the relations of the two countries that they fulfil the obligations they have made in the contract with Croatia or that they have given their legislation to the Croatian people in their country, especially that this people is quite, not quite, but entirely loyal to the state of Montenegro, and there should be no specific problems there. As far as BiH itself was concerned, there were many words, the opening breaks required about the SDA declaration on BiH, or the future, and the establishment of the Republic of BiH as they called it. I must say that the SDP responded to this declaration because we consider it an important political element on the political scene in BiH. So it is not negligible, the SDA is one of the key political parties, the biggest and strongest Bosniak party and what they draw as their political platform certainly reflects in reality. HDZ did not see it react, at least this one in Croatia here. I think it is necessary, therefore, not to interfere with internal processes in BiH, but such important political facts should be registered if they have an impact on reality. We believe that the SDA's views are merely codified views that have been spent for a long time by the SDA in BiH, that they do not contribute to the faster consolidation and better functioning of BiH as a state but are further de facto homogenising political forces that do not share their views in the fight against these positions, and which, of course, can politically destabilise the country and lead in the wrong direction. An equally one-sided attempt to change the BiH Constitution is completely unambiguous and can lead us if it insists on the country's serious destabilisation. So what the SDA Declaration is for us is just a starting negotiating basis for the future and a future agreement, a political agreement in BiH that I am convinced will have to correct according to the views and other partners if they want a common vision, a compromise vision on which the realisation will all work together. Otherwise, any unilateral activity only creates resistance to other peoples or other political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165331	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Vlaha Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165332	The Honorable Chairman, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Central Office, to only humiliate all those who teach us, who raise us and take the opportunity to support the strike of our educators in order to fight them by their own standard of living. At first, I'm going to say that your office, I highly appreciate the work, I have feedback excellent, and what I want to take advantage of right now is something we need, but what we also need is for you to stand out of politics. Why am I stressing that? You are unjust in BiH. In BiH, you are unfair and is not represented by the overall interest of the Croatian political entity in BiH through Croatian politics. Politics, Croatia's foreign policy towards BiH is defined through the eyes, ears and languages and interests of BiH's HDZ, or even a few, I will not say the entire HDZ, but several individuals who have risen above that policy, changing streams of rivers, etc. When you stand up to the HDZ policy in BiH and you are not a patriot here, you are not a Croat, you are not a Catholic, and do not have that custom, but I will say. Gentlemen, don't teach me patriotism. I have 1,751 fighting sectors so many things in BiH, don't teach me patriotism, don't teach me Croatianism, because I come from the background if you want to look exactly like that from an area where it's been Croatian for over 600 years and don't teach me Catholicism, go to my neighborhood where you live, and you will see that one of my families is the bearer and witness of faith in that area very rarely. Don't go down to that level. That is why I am aware of what I am saying now and I am aware of the possible consequences, but I wish to repeat you are unfair to the Croatian political being in BiH. What we should do as a society at this time and as a state should show both maturity and responsibility, as well as good faith, because BiH's long-term politics and overall has produced a schizophrenic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What schizophrenic? Such that you have part of the population, part of the Croatian regiment who thinks he lives there, but does not belong there, and the other part has to live and belong there. We can't let that happen. It's not respect. So we've come to this extreme that the Christmas concert in Sarajevo will not be financed, nothing to cover this year, you haven't even planned a kuna, please cover the cost of that concert you'll bring back the pride and dignity of those people from Central Bosnia, I'm talking about the Christmas concert. What do you need to do? In this I suggest that you unite the common political entity first and define the representation of the Croatian people in BiH. Those who are now forced to represent him do not represent him, Mr. Covic, and that click does not represent him, that's what the numbers say, now I don't want to argue specifically, that's what election numbers say. I am aware of the problems of overvote by Komsic and that policy, it is a real problem that needs to be opened and which needs to be solved, but you should be aware of the facts of the truth that Mr. Covic lost the election because Croatians also did not vote for him in, in Herzegovina loses the election. Take the numbers and support it, there are over 30,000 Serb votes in its support, so if Komsic is a second member of BiH, he was a second member of Serbian politics at the time. The next step we need to take is to get away from this wrong policy that's being systematically run, which part of the population there says you live here but you don't belong there. We need to understand that BiH as a whole is the vital interest of the Croatian people in Croatia and the Croatian people in BiH. And as someone said BiH and Croatia are a unique security area, BiH is a unique life area as much as we want ours, our greatest success in having the biggest trade exchange at this point, but if we continue this way Serbia will already take over. We need to be concerned about this meeting that took place yesterday in Belgrade. They reorient, foreign policy is being reoriented in that direction, it goes into the formation of two strong entities, Serbian-Russian and Bosniak-Turkish if that's how we think about politics. Croatia will also be a minority in these consolidations, the Croatian people. We can't let that happen. And please don't talk to me about the war in BiH, I know all about this war, I was part of that story, I know about hanging out with Karadzic, I know and even let the will and will of that policy that she was having at the time, they wanted to give part of the Konaval for going out to the sea, is that a shame, part of Croatian territory then wanted to give itself. We can't, we have to give up that policy. My interest is to protect the Croatian people in BiH, from the first to the last, my interest is to protect the living space of these people. It's a waste of everything if right now these living spaces become a bit of geographical space. Let's reason with each other. I won't be long, the problem is very clear, yours, the role of your office is extremely important. The concept of political towards all Croats outside the country should be common, there should be consensus, as a consequence of consensus. But we need to get rid of the scam ourselves. We should be aware and acknowledge that 250 thousand people in BiH who have documents in Croatia are the political potential that systematically affects the outcome of the elections in the Republic of Croatia. That's true. And I'm not just talking about Croats here, I'm talking about both Serbs and Bosniaks. We can't let that happen. We can make order. Please, I am deeply convinced that this High House can reach consensus, it can and should represent the interests of the diaspora entirely. Your office here has an extremely large role, and we all need to support and direct it together. But we need to create a political basis to move away from politics. You can't be part of a policy that generates there just some kind of electoral body and forgets these people and that happens. It happens all the time. Believe her, and you and I both know it's true. I know you won't say it's true, it's true. Let's represent these people entirely because that's our interest. And this injustice that is happening in BiH should be dealt with in haste. 2/3, at least 2/3 in BiH, the people of the Croatian political entity are not represented. Their interests are not represented and they see BiH as a whole and a unique living space of the Croatian people and that is how it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165333	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Bozo Ljubic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165334	... So, I thank you once again so much for saying hello and thank you to the government's representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] I would say so here today at the end of the debate that I am, I would say satisfied with the way the issue of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has been debated today, especially as this item of the agenda has prompted me to say the respectable attention of two of the strongest clubs here in the Croatian Parliament and I think it is very important. I've heard here several times why BiH was the most talked about. Well, it has been said because, in fact, Croats with the exception of several minorities in Europe are at this point the most endangered part of Croatian corruption in political terms. It was said that the position of the Croatian people in BiH is the preservation of political subjectivity, the survival and survival of the strategic and state and national interest of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, that this was discussed. But it was said here and in a very casual, inappropriate way, and if I wanted to paralyze actually with this debate that ended online, it would take me hours. In BiH, in fact, at this moment, Croats represent parties gathered around the Croatian National Assembly, it is not only one party, it is 12 parties that won over 95% of Croatian votes that went to the polls. Thus, Croatian National Assembly candidate Dragan Covic won over 95% of the Croatian votes that went to the elections and that is an irrefutable fact. This is easily verifiable, therefore, if we analyse the vote in Croatian majority municipalities, counties and environments. What happened now that the Croatian presidency member was re-elected by the votes of Bosniaks despite the fact that the candidate of the Croatian National Assembly in these elections received 40% more votes than in the previous elections was in fact the only consequence of a single project which was led primarily by the majority Bosniak party, however, as we can see, it did not bring happiness to anyone in BiH two years after, or a year after BiH's election, it did not have the power to know when and whether it would be won by the next elections at all. Therefore, it is clear that BiH has a serious structural problem which is not only a matter of saying, but a structural problem that requires BiH to be reconstructed in a way that can be functional and self-sustainable. What I would like to point out here, and it seems to me that we are building it, so it is this political consensus in the Croatian Parliament, no matter who is in power in Croatia and no matter who is in BiH. In fact, the government will change. The very fact that when the change of the electoral law in BiH, when Croats can choose their legitimate representatives in the presidency and the House of Peoples, by retaining perhaps this BiH structure will open up a space of pluralism, within Croatian political pluralism, so we may not be asking such questions as we are asking here. And secondly, you need to look at the diaspora to say so within the framework I'd say new paradigms. We're talking about a new diaspora today, so-called. in Ireland, Germany, etc., even if I don't see it as a diaspora. These are the people who went to work in the EU. And the example of Poland that was spoken of here today in the Parliament, it says that it is, I'm sure the temporary stay as if we've gone I don't know either from one part of Croatia to another to earn better and return to where we were born, where we came from. So I am convinced that the progress of Croatia in economic and social terms these people will return here enriched by new work experience and new capital probably. So this new paradigm implies, and that's the fact, the globalisation processes, the new communication channels, the social networks actually enable us to both our diaspora and us together with it to say there's a new kind of fertility that people live in and out of the country, and it's important to maintain communication with them so that we motivate them to invest here, to come back here and eventually we'll talk about diaspora in the future as wealth. Not the burden. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165335	Thank you very much, and now, on behalf of the rapporteur, the report will speak to the esteemed Zvonko Milas, State Secretary, President of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, indeed here for a few minutes I will only try to sum up all of this that we have brought to the debate today, so as I have started my presentation, I will try in this tone and continue, I don't think it matters who established the office, who passed the law, it is important that it exists, it is important that we all try together to do everything in order to through the institutions, so through the office and all other institutions in the Republic of Croatia, indeed, outside the Republic of Croatia to those with whom we have constitutional obligation, but above all, and human, we have the same people, and I think that in this context we must act accordingly. I think I have to answer what Mr. Maras said, I'm sorry that it's not there, so it's a matter of transparency, a question of the integrity of every politician man, regardless of his capacity, so he has little will and interest in any decision making, so the decision on this support is made in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, he can see all the projects that have been reported, he can see all the applicants, he can get everything he cares about, the proposal makes an inter-resorial commission, so 4 ministries with all the other of the Central State Office for housing reconstruction to agencies where indeed going to go on the ground, talking to our representatives, with associations, with local self-government, we're trying to do exactly what you said here today, which will bring long-term benefits, which will help people, and that young school really bring benefits to the survival of people, or the survival of the Croats, no matter where they live. I'm glad we're in agreement, I don't think there's too much to spend on it, about language as the ultimate value of every identity, and I'm going to repeat once again that in this context teachers are being sent and I think the legal procedure is going to end in both Canada and North America, in Australia is already a Croatian language coordinator, it should be pointed out that there are over 50 Croatian language teachers and 3,000 students in Germany, respectively, and that this is all funded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, there's a lot of good things, I'm sorry too, Mr. Orepić went, he talked about injustice, I'll just point out here that over the past few years we've been helping the area of Banja Luka, Kotor Varoshi, Dobrotic, where HSP is in power, where in the power of HDZ '90, therefore different parties, and that no moment the party has been in mind to anyone, not in sight, but were the people and the space in which they live, so from Posavina through Banja Luka all the way up to Herzegovina has always been the key interest of the Croatian man and everything that will help him to survive and be his own. And another thing we're trying to do with the projects that we're bringing, I'd say co-existence, which is better with all three peoples, you mentioned the university hospital, and here I'm talking about the importance of the New Bill hospital, only today can we see who is visiting it so that they come as patients of all three peoples, and who is really still at the time when Franjo Tudjman promised and said that he's going to build who today by building his sixth lamela, he's really got absolutely full significance in everything that the Croats need, but also all the others who live in those spaces. Thank you for your constructive discussion, thank you for your commitment through everything you've said and I believe that we must indeed, I know that the political framework cannot be avoided, but the party framework in the topic that speaks of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia should try to avoid as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165337	We have one replica of the esteemed mistress Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165338	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State in my debate I have already praised the work of your office, of course and the work and assistance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on everything it does to help Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but there is another office, the office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which is after 15 years. the abandoned relations with the emigrants established excellent relations with them, the president puts them in the priority of her international travels, she opened the door of her office and devoted the maximum attention to defending citizenship, the office of course together with you is working to help resolve double taxation and only together can we all help Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially where minorities or in BiH are not meant to be a constituent people, but in practice it is not so, here thank you nicely,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165339	Thank you very much, I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165340	Annual report on implementation of the Strategy and the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2018. The applicant is the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The Annual Report on the Implementation of the Strategy and the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 98 for, 7 abstentions and 1 against the concluded conclusion that it was proposed by the parent working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165341	so we will move to the following point, which is: - Report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2017 and 2018. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 10th century 3. Law on development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad and national strategy and development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017-2021 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Zdravka Busic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. Let me present to you a report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and 2018 in accordance with the Law on Development Cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad. This law regulates the policy of development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad and actually defines the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as a national coordination body and obliges it to produce reports on the implementation of the official development aid actually reported by this Croatian Parliament. The report follows the implementation of the National Development Cooperation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017-2021, adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 27 October 2017. The national strategy has established the framework for sectoral and geographical priorities of the international development cooperation policy and humanitarian aid implemented in accordance with the annual implementation programmes adopted by the Government. The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs' strategic plan cites the creation of a policy of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad, coordinates and implements and reports as one of the main objectives that are somehow through this can be read also the main objectives of the Croatian foreign policy. Development cooperation is one of the pillars, as I have already said Croatian foreign policy, just as it was set at European level by the European Security and Foreign Policy Strategy. Through development cooperation we promote our own systems of value, ensure desirable political partnerships and support in international relations, open the door to our experts and institutions on an international stage, and thus give our entire society new opportunities and cooperation and exchanges of knowledge, experience and technology. In short, this development cooperation strengthens the security of social and economic progress of partner countries, but also of ourselves. Dear MPs and MPs, the report that is today before you gives a statistical narrative and table review of the official development aid projects that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has prepared according to the contributions received from the body of the state administration and public institutions. The implementation of official development assistance by the Republic of Croatia has been decentralised, meaning that the resolution bodies are implementing development humanitarian projects, following the priorities set out in the National Development Cooperation Strategy and are therefore obliged to inform the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs which ultimately gives this full report. The implementation of official development assistance during that period has been reported by 11 ministries, of course, along with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs: the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Science and Education, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Environment and Energy, Ministry of the Croatian Defence, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, and also by the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy and finally the Ministry of Justice. There are also four central state offices, here you have just heard a report from a central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, the Office for Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which also has a large share in this report and the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, then there is also the CNB, and the Croatian Hydrometeorological Institute. We also noted the provision of official development assistance at the county level with the aim of strengthening participation as many stakeholders and more accurate recording or monitoring of official development assistance as possible, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established in October 2018. The Committee for Development Co-operation and humanitarian aid abroad whose work we have also looked back on in this report before you today. The commission brings together 33 bodies of state administration and public institutions, regional and local authorities, civil society organisations and academia. The committee is headed by the foreign and European affairs minister. So far, a high-level session has been held and an expert workshop in collaboration with the European Commission and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. We believe that, through the work of this committee, the total figures recorded in fact for the official development of this aid in the next period will be continuously and more presented than so far, which are 33. Effective and strong development cooperation is an investment as I have already said in our own development and our security. Total amounts of official development aid in 2017 amounted to 355 million kuna, while in 2018 the total amount was 453 million kuna. We moved 0.1% of gross national income, this is GNI. Within the EU, it is important to also highlight the agreed objective of reaching 0.3% of GNI by 2030 at national level to contribute to the European collective objective of 0.7% of GNI in that same period. The 2030 target year is consistent with the achievement of the globally agreed 17 Sustainable Development Goals under the 2030 Agenda. The UN. By joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia joined a group of the most developed countries and also the largest and most influential donor in the world, which stands out more than half of the global development aid. Croatia, by increasing its GNI in 2011, and it is also necessary to point out, has gained the conditions for leaving the group of recipients of development and humanitarian aid and has at the same time become the only donor country. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and MPs, let's look a little bit, now we'll get a little closer where we are and how we channeled these funds during the 2017 and 2018 reporting periods. Most of the official development aid referred to above 2/3 of the total amount shall be paid through the contribution to the general EU budget for official development assistance and the non-financial European Development Fund. Of the remaining funds, we can confirm that most of the official development aid was aimed at the geographical area of Southeast Europe with the BiH programme state and sectoral security of human dignity through investments in education and health, which is consistent with the priorities set out in the National Strategy and collected relevant data. We note the increase in bilateral official development aid that we want to continuously strengthen every year. In the report, we singled out three programming countries through three priority geographical areas, which is BiH in Southeast Europe, Ukraine in the eastern neighbourhood and Jordan in the southern neighbourhood. From other developing countries, we singled out Afghanistan for a long and unique experience and reputation that we have already gained as a donor in that country as well as a significant military presence in Afghanistan. The highest visibility for the donor is just about to be agreed with me by implementing direct bilateral projects. Croatia thus restored schools, libraries and hospitals, trained and encouraged entrepreneurship in us as a key partner country of BiH. Here's today we've had our chance to hear a lot about it, so I'm not going to talk about it right now. So it also enabled psychosocial rehabilitation of children at risk of war in Ukraine, it built special playgrounds for children with disabilities in refugee camps in Jordan for Syrian refugees, helped in the pre-accession process in EU candidate countries, and we also often talk and mention it here in the Assembly so that I would not enter into the wider area. Croatia is also active in numerous multilateral projects and initiatives within the EU and international organisations. So it is financially supported during the reporting period, in fact it is called the EU Fund for Africa, which is targeted, I would say on those root causes of migration and the European Investment Bank's Economic Resistance Initiative also aimed at countries on the migrant route. These refugee, of course, are also helping the refugee mechanism for Turkey. These isolated initiatives and mechanisms are aimed at preventing illegal migration. And the mitigation of their consequences clearly shows that investment in development cooperation contributes to our own security and stability as well as to Europe as the whole of Croatia. Croatia also regularly helps the needy population in numerous humanitarian crises around the world, among which we distinguish that extended action and those that are extremely caused mainly by climate disasters. In the prolonged crisis, we helped in Syria and neighbouring countries of Yemen and Afghanistan. Of these other extraordinary crises, we have sent assistance to Chile after that catastrophic fire, in Somalia and South Sudan we have sent assistance due to droughts and famines, and we have directed assistance to Albania to prevent sea pollution. Dear gentlemen, we can conclude that we are moving in a good direction through the continued strengthening of the number of national development cooperation providers and through the recognition of Croatia as a credible development partner and donors at European and global level. In the coming period, we intend to strengthen cooperation with civil society organisations that are among the key partners in development policy as direct actors of democratic processes, guarantees of proper management of these resources, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and especially in the protection of the most vulnerable social groups of course, these associations are very effective in this. I would also mention here the role of religious communities in the field of development cooperation and humanitarian aid are special values through promotion, we will all agree, peace, principles, principles of solidarity and principles of justice. We believe that in the following reports we will be able to report further strengthening Croatia's official development assistance through the growth of bilateral projects and bilateral cooperation and that we will be able to inform you of the increased number of new national stakeholders and the involvement of Croatian institutions and experts in as many European and international development projects as possible. Thus, by strengthening Croatia's official development aid, we directly influence the strengthening of national capacities and the presence of Croatian implementation partners in the world as we protect, protecting and promoting Croatian foreign political and economic interests. Mr. Vice-Presidential Assembly, Ms. Representatives and I thank you for your attention, and here I hope we have a quality debate on this agenda point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165343	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165344	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state in my neighborhood say you never know what brings you the day, and what brings you the night, you don't know whether you're going to get hit by an earthquake or a flood or a tsunami or some other accident, just God knows what might happen to you. And when we look at this report, through this development aid, we are actually implementing our own systems of value and I have to tell you in favor of your debate we now had the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Morocco and there we actually experienced in one part of Morocco when we told you that people were actually talking to us about this development aid even though they didn't know about it, and it was actually about women who through this help received funds to further educate what was extremely significant. So this, in fact, and as Croatia, we are working on our reputation, we are actually implementing our system of values, and by this we are recognizable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165345	Respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165346	Thank you very much. Here's the way it is, it's nice to always hear it is also I think we can all confirm that we are going around the world and at different conferences and bilateral meetings, but what you've mentioned now, that's true, that's true, but that's until 2016 so it's not in this report, but here I hope there will be more and more, every year more such commendable comments on Croatia's account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165347	The next replica is the respected representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165348	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Croatia does not have great funds for some major global development aid but the EU has, the efforts of all Member States are enough to allow some processes to be launched outside the EU. We gave a little money for Africa, but the EU has a big plan for Africa. Many problems can be touched with these money from climate change, migration, conflict prevention, economic development and education in these countries that things develop there in a good and democratic way. I want to know when Croatia works across the EU, and we know that we had a development aid commissioner in the EU, did we have any targeted projects in Africa, have we tried in any way to help our economy or something else? What exactly did we advocate in contact with the EU when it comes to spending European money in Africa? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165349	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165350	Thank you very much. Yes, I absolutely agree with everything you've said, but we've been trying everything we could, of course, as you said ourselves, we've had a commissioner, we've been monitoring his work, we've been joining every opportunity of course about all the conferences that this and this contribute in that direction. And certainly the Croatian state always, as I pointed out in my report means we want to, we want to work on the source of the problem, and that's exactly what you said about the countries of Africa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165351	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then we move to clubs, so the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be represented by Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Two years ago, in this House of Commons, we adopted a new strategy for development cooperation and humanitarian assistance, today we are discussing a report on the implementation of this strategy that has shared territorial and thematic priorities for the Republic of Croatia to implement its development of cooperation. And it is therefore no wonder that most of the funds are intended to work with and achieve the goals we have set, the project objectives in BiH, therefore this report is also in some way related to the previous work of the state office for Croats outside Croatia, overlapping with a particular work precisely because most of our development cooperation is focused and thematically and naturally geographically towards BiH, aware that the Republic of BiH, its national security is in some way intrinsically linked to the situation in BiH. To speak of BiH, of course, as a sovereign state, but the situation taking place there directly affects national security of the Republic of Croatia, so we can really talk about Croatia, BiH, as a single geostrategic space where it is necessary to connect both energy and transport and economic to EU rules where Croatia is already a member, where BiH is seeking to join, where security conditions will also be arranged in the coverage of NATO alliances one day where Croatia is also a member and we believe that there should be places for one today and for BiH. It is often heard in the media and in the public space, and this has indeed been established, how many in recent years both Turkey and Russia have been present in BiH and this very presence they have achieved through development cooperation. It is precisely because development cooperation is an integral part of the external action, the foreign policy of any country that has certain strategic objectives and development of co-operation, except that it really encourages the development of that one region or helps a particular population, it also achieves certain external-political objectives. That is how it should be with the Republic of Croatia, so no one prevents us from being more active in BiH, and that is why this focus of our development strategy as well as the work of the Croatian State Clock outside Croatia is fully justified in focusing on BiH. Otherwise, if those funds that are always limited were to go to a hundred different projects of less intensity, the additional value would be much less than if we focus on one territorial and of course thematic priority where we can achieve a lot and more. In this context, not only is the activity of the Republic of Croatia at the state level but also at the level of our counties and the way in which the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs uses and European funds, the state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, using the same European funds, can encourage the cooperation of our counties and also the counties in BiH that border with the Republic of Croatia to be clearer, that they can be more concretely connected within the framework of the European macro-regional regions using European funds and thus help to primarily keep our people in their homes in BiH, that they do not have to emigrate, that they can achieve their perspective right there. This is extremely important precisely for the sake of national security, you cannot understand the security of our southern areas at all without having that depth in BiH in mind. Therefore, this is exactly the kind of thinking that the Republic of Croatia and BiH view as a single geostrategic space is necessary. When we talk about this strategy, then we often mention the role of our economy and whether this development strategy is being monitored and can be more monitored by our economies, by not being the primary objective of development cooperation to encourage the economic operators of the country that make certain donations, however, it would be naive not to take that into account and that dimension. It was so instructed, it was prudent that Croatia was involved, for example. in the EU fund for Colombia where one of the key activities is precisely demining, which is exactly where our industry is developed, where it has results where it exports its products and exports its services around the world and so on in Colombia, for example. which is my information, another country with the biggest demining problem, or the need for demining. Also, this link between national security and development cooperation is not always evident, so it is also necessary to do this effort, to explain that there are no funds for our taxpayers who simply go abroad without having any effect on the welfare of our citizens. Sometimes when you talk about some millions that go for example. in the European Fund for Africa, it is difficult to see where this first link is. However, when we look at the wider problem of migration, when we look at the data that in 2014 when the International Community half cut its donations to the Food Fund, for the International Food Fund and, among other things, it was one of the reasons for the increased number of migrations, especially economically, I am not talking about refugees now, about people fleeing from some war zone than those who are really running from hunger, from misery and are looking for economic security in the rich EU if we were to reduce drastically that development aid today, we would only encourage even greater migration. And that's how important that connection is. Of course, Croatia can participate in this very limited but it is important to be together with other EU Member States because it protects itself in this way from larger migrant waves, of course using primarily larger resources that the EU and richer EU countries have. But in this, of course, our interest and our national security and security is our citizens and, of course, the idea that both the African continent and developing countries can develop more quickly and quality than they do today. I'd like to mention in the end this aspect of humanitarian aid, the secretary of state mentioned Chile. I will go back to the question of Venezuela once again, we have opened this door several times in this House and Croatia has indeed come to the meeting and tried to say the limited resources that the Croatian state has to help especially the Croatian community in Venezuela. The State Office for Croatians outside Croatia has already prepared a programme, in which some other EU member states may have advanced, Slovenia, Hungary, already made concrete programmes for their communities in Venezuela to enable them, facilitated the arrival of these people in Slovenia to Hungary, and thus, if you want to fix bad demographic images in those countries. Croatia is going this way, it may be necessary to further strengthen these efforts, and therefore we have opened the topic here in the Croatian Parliament several times in a way that, as Senator Caton did in ancient Rome, each speech should be destroyed among other things, Carthage should be destroyed. And no matter what the subject was, he always went back to that point. Today we don't want to destroy anyone but we want to save them. We want to pave the way for a better life for our people, the Croats living in Venezuela so that they can come to the Republic of Croatia for those who want and can unfortunately leave this country which is in a deep humanitarian crisis. And therefore, no matter what the subject is, we keep going back to that, especially when the debate is on humanitarian aid and also on development cooperation. In that context, this report is exhausting. This shows in detail how the Republic of Croatia implemented the Strategy in the period from 2017 to 18th and the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165353	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Josko Klisovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165354	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, once again I welcome Secretary of State Busic with a co-worker. I will be brief not to repeat what I generally always say when this is a topic because it is how the report on the concrete projects that have been done has its own strategic dimension. A fellow Stier has warned many things that, of course, I agree with why it is important for foreign policy, for national security, as it is a very important instrument for the implementation of some plotted foreign policy. What comes into my eyes is that, when I read the report in 2017 and 2018, de facto we had the same percentage of gross national income that we separate for development aid, so 0,10, 0.1%. The EU has 0.7, which is a target of 0.33 as a new EU member. Of course, we want to contribute as much as possible to the activities of the EU in this area, meaning in the area of development assistance and cooperation with non-European countries. Of course, we also need to take care of the situation in our country. So it's not easy for me to see doctors and nurses strike and ask for a higher salary, teachers the same and then explain that we finance some other people who are also in trouble. But since development policy has its own constructive elements where Croatia as a state can benefit, we must certainly explain to people that this is not about throwing money. But when we use an instrument of development aid in foreign policy, we must certainly define ourselves more clearly what our interests are, which we really want to promote through development aid. If we want to help the Croats outside the country then of course, we heard today and in the morning about various projects in that field and that's good, we can support it. If we want to help our economy in countries where they have certain opportunities but therefore do not have a tendency of state authorities through development aid can also open a certain door. However, the economy would very often also co-finance certain projects taking into account its interests and they are compatible with state interests as well. This should be taken into account and should be taken into account, with the economics, exporters, to have continued dialogue on certain markets where we can come forward together, where we can put development aid in this context as well as to advocate certain projects in certain countries within the EU, our minister participates in such meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council. What is also seen in this report is that the vast majority of development aid goes to Southeast Europe, 98% in 2017, 80% in 2018, which is understandable if our foreign policy is in principle just touching that part, one geographical space, and it is the most active, but in development aid we have to take care of, not only of the narrow interests but also of the values that we represent in international relations and thus we have to stay away from our region, if we care about, I don't know, human rights, if we care, if we care about gender equality then there are places in the world beyond our region where we have to be present ourselves to show that we care about both these places and those people and that we want to develop relations with these people. If we care about the prevention of climate change, therefore negative climate change, then we must also have hearing that we are developing cooperation with those countries that are major polluters, and some of these are purely necessary, because they do not have the technology needed to do so, so that they can in one appropriate way protect the climate by producing what they need to produce. Therefore, there are narrow interests, there are values, and one category and another category must be represented when we define our objectives as to how we will and where we spend development aid, and these objectives are exactly what is missing from this report. For me, it's a little under-analytical, it has a lot of data, especially about various projects, it's a big contribution, but we're not clearly defined enough, which are the goals that we want to achieve with development policy or development aid, especially in this context of our particular and concrete values that we want to promote, so let's see really how much we've done through this year or two years after we've adopted the strategy, work on something like that because realising the objectives is crucial, it's not only important to choose projects and then finance them, but how they fit into our values and our interests, or defined goals. In this respect, and when we are participating in meetings in the EU, we need to decide for ourselves what is the basic criterion that we want to represent, whether we want more money in projects that are going to reduce migration towards Europe, and the kind of development projects, or rather, we want to work on those climate-saving projects, is this a big issue today in the EU, one of the priorities and the new European Commission. These issues can also be linked, we know that the World Bank has data that 140 million people will go to Europe or start from their countries as migrants only and exclusively because of climate change. Today we are unable to take care of a million people who have come to Europe since 2015, and we are preparing a much, much bigger wave due to climate change. Now, development aid is a beautiful instrument politically throughout the EU, of course, through which we can act in this area to take over modern technologies, to take over modern production methods to make the climate less destructive, so these are some of the things that I have seen here and I propose and suggest that the next report has clearer developed goals of our own and how we have managed through these projects that are numerous here to what extent to be realized. And what is particularly important, I have seen that there are many small projects here, I don't know if they are really that important or not, but we seem extremely important to finance those projects that not only help Croats, but improve their position in the society they live in. The example was, we mentioned a bridge hospital, so it is not only there to treat Croats, of course it is there, but also to attract others to automatically raise and perception Croats as constitutive peoples in BiH to contribute and something that exceeds them, contributes and the health of others living in that country, thus creating one trust that can always be used for constructively solving then political problems that exist, not only in that country but also in other countries, but it should be kept in mind, so perhaps not strictly something that needs to be fixed at home social or church fences, but something that can be used to develop their interests further in the country where they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165355	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the voice on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. I don't really know where to start, but development cooperation is an extremely important instrument for every country's foreign policy. I would say even for a country like the Republic of Croatia almost the most important instrument of foreign policy, it can reach with relatively little money, some countries that we are simply unable to cover with our diplomatic network given the size of that network, given the costs, with individual projects that are significant or visible, or which are, which trigger the accession of a larger number of countries, can defacto establish contacts and open space for the Republic of Croatia in countries where we are not able to do so through diplomatic representations because we simply do not have them. It can also open a space for cooperation with donors, big donors from different other countries who will potentially be interested in some of the projects that we are initiating, which what we can do may be small but if the project is good, if the idea is good, the other one will join, the Norwegians will join, you will join which large donors, of course, as is known, may join some Middle Eastern rich countries and participate and turn one such project into a significant and much larger project. And it is not only a question of establishing communication with the countries in which we normally have, we are poorly represented or we do not have diplomatic and consular representations, it is also an instrument of profiling Croatia on an international stage like we are. It is something that is often neglected by us as an important factor, but it is directly in direct correlation with Croatian interests because unless you are one of the great forces within Europe, either globally or neither, the picture you are projecting has a very big impact on the power of your word when you advocate some interests of the Republic of Croatia. So if you present yourself as a country with empathy, with a human face, with the willingness to cooperate with others with the possibility of being involved in this kind of development cooperation or development assistance, it will return to you in the form of your influence in those situations when in multilateral organisations it decides on Croatian interests. And that's why I repeat that even if you want to project that picture, it's about yourself back in Croatia. So who we are and why we stand for it. This is why I consider it precisely this development cooperation and development assistance to be a particularly important component of policy in general and foreign policy not to speak, so almost a key instrument and foreign policy. Development assistance or development cooperation takes place in two forms. One is our contributions or what we give to multilateral organisations in the first place in the UN and various UN agencies and the second is in the EU. This is our obligation, the result of our membership in these organizations and within, of course, necessary and necessary. However, as far as our foreign policy is concerned, there is no special impact. So this is not something we can specifically use to promote Croatia as a country with a specific profile, goals and projects. So what we can use directly to promote Croatia and for the purpose of our foreign policy is only bilateral development cooperation. So where Croatia participates there we are visible and even with small projects if they are smart, if they are well targeted at it we are visible. And this project that we started about girls in Morocco and 25 girls who were educated and got a scholarship to go to school was a small project but it was visible and it was registered and registered to say and it had influence. Such projects can have a whole series of countries where we have some interest. This interest may be different, this interest may be to establish communication with a country with which we have no communication yet that is coming on the international scene. Let's say like Myanmar or Burma. This development cooperation can be with some Latin American countries, with Colombia, of course we have long-standing cooperation on this demining project but there is a lot of other space. It can be related to a joint international initiative, it can be related to specific Croatian expertise, Colombia, and demining is one of such examples again. Now, so I don't think there's any doubt that this is an important topic and anyone who's ever dealt with a little politics and nose-blowing outside the borders is clear that it's a very important instrument. There's the next element, and it's humanitarian aid. I warn that at this point, Turkey has threatened to release 3.5 million people towards Europe if Europe condemns their intervention in northern Syria in which it was created in less than 24 hours seems to be 60 thousand refugees, according to what I see on the portals. So I have no words, I mean it's a potentially humanitarian disaster of huge proportions. We're where we are geographically, we're not getting out of there, which means extremely close. We have already seen this in 2015 when it was a refugee crisis, therefore extremely close to all these crisis hotspots, also something that is relevant to us and that we need to prepare ourselves for. Now, looking at this report, it seems like official development aid is almost completely gone. There are 504 projects in this report, there is one between 12 and 15 let's say the upper limit, which deals with development aid or official development aid. All the rest are Croats outside Croatia. Croatians outside Croatia are a special topic, there is an office, there is a budget for it, there are projects, we can agree or disagree on who gets and takes these money, we can agree on these projects or not, but that's another topic. It's not official development aid and cooperation. This is help to Croats outside Croatia and support to Croats outside Croatia, which every country in some form is being implemented and to be implemented but cannot be treated as official development aid. In addition, out of the 504 projects mentioned here, 480 is without the country's specification. 480 is Southeast Europe or developing countries or such a formulation but Southeast Europe. What Southeast Europe? Albania, Serbia, Montenegro, Romania, Bulgaria or BiH? Of course, the vast majority of this is BiH, including for example. 40 million paid by high-dealers. As we can see, this is a huge problem in Croatia, today it seems to me that the minister has announced that he is paying 300 million for debts to wholesale drugs, half drugs more in undead pharmacies. So, it's not development aid, it's helping the budget, it may possibly be interpreted in some way, although I'm not honestly sure how it can be interpreted as helping the Croats in BiH but it's not development cooperation or development aid. It's something that we have a special office for, what that office should do and inside it, we can discuss which projects yes or no. However, immersed in this report where the fact that official development aid or the official development of co-operation de facto slowly drowns or disappears into what is a project of concern for or assistance to Croats outside Croatia, which I stress is one other project perhaps not in this form in which it is done and in my opinion, but it is not important now, it is simply another project, so 40 million wholesales are not official development aid, it is not development cooperation, it is a support to the budget. We cannot use this in any way for anything other than what it is to pay the debt to the wholesalers in BiH. But what we need is official development of assistance and cooperation and that, dear people, if there are 12 to all together, as I said, 15 ceilings of projects that are related to official development aid and everything else is related to an office that exists even as a special office within the structure of the Croatian administration, so everything else is 504 less of those 12 or 15, then we can say that what this report shows us is that we are slowly suffocating or losing official development of assistance and official development of cooperation and that we are doing something completely different under the firm. This is quite another thing that can be done in particular, and one part of it should be done in particular, but that is no excuse or reason to lose what is important to us, and because de facto is from this report I would say very honestly, see that this official development aid regarding Croatia disappears and that it is replaced by another institute that is important but not what should be said here, we will not support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165357	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165358	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. So we are talking about the report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and 2018. I have to admit that before I took this report into my hands, I wasn't familiar with this subject, very little, so this is the first time I actually have this document in this pile of documents that we have, I have in my hand, one man as a list of summers, there are really things that a man can welcome, I don't know, means helping me first of all I'm going to say through the central state office for Croats outside of Croatia, helping Croats both Serbia and BiH and Montenegro, and that's commendable, these are all donations that are worth 5000 kn, 2000 kn, and some are even 45 000 kn, etc., but what here is a little bounce at the amount that I'll say suspiciously, for example. Some membership fees or donations, I'll set up a couple here. It goes through the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, the annual membership fee for the international organisation of work, and we give a million and 448 000 kn or more, I will mention it, via the Ministry of Health, says the annual membership fee in the World Health Organization, and there we give almost 3 million kuna. I would say that these two membership fees are enough together for almost all of this, so for these 20, 30 donations, excuse me, 200, 300 donations of 5, 10, 15, 20,000 kn that go for example. Croatians outside Croatia. So this report could actually come down in three items, all of these little ones and then these two big ones, but that's not all, here's the cream at the end. At the beginning of the report, we have this few things that I do, and here I hope that all those who are watching this will be interested in the same thing. There is one topic current, a colleague mentioned earlier, I will also be working on a refugee mechanism for Turkey, support for refugees in Turkey, Turkey's refugee facilities, 19m249 000 kn and something else small. 20 million kn, so we're giving 20 million dollars a year to get Erdogan to threaten us every day, right? Today we're listening to the same threats, if you don't let me kill the Kurds there and do what I'm doing, then we'll do different things, I'll let you have the 3.5 million, and I'll let you out of Idlib, another 4.5 million people, and then you're in trouble. So we stand out only for refugee camps in Turkey more, several times more than the entire report, but I wonder why we stand out? To be clear, I'm not against humanitarian aid, I'm in favour, people need help, but did we invite these people? We didn't invite them. Do they go to Croatia? They don't even go, we're just transiting. They're going to Germany, right? - Mrs. Crescent. Merkel invited them. And now it's me because she's Mrs. Merkel invited them, and she saw this population that can't be integrated, which isn't functionally capable, has no skill required in Germany, now we who are neither guilty nor debtor, but are in the same formation of some kind, I won't call the state, the para-state fabric with them, we pay 20 million dollars a year to the Turks to make Erdogan fuck us around right now. Well, that's not all. We're going to the bigger one. Then we have another fund, I don't know what it is, a contribution to the European Development Fund, that's where we give 34 million kuna, I don't know what it's all about, here's what I'd like for the secretary of state to explain it if he knows, and finally for the end of that top of it all, then... the decline of 2% of donations or funding, which is a contribution to the EU general budget for the CFP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, you're really queen, for the first time I've heard her, I know she's a socialist working movement or party but that's not it, that's not something else, that means 220 million kuna a year. Now that you're listing this, let's go find what belongs to the SRP. Here's where it says, let's go. The SRP therefore includes the UN Development Programme, so-called LOTFA, meaning for Afghanistan, the refugee mechanism for Turkey, again, we finance this once again, and then the EU's trust fund for Africa and Colombia, then something for Southeast Europe again and again for the World Health Organization, the World Trade Organisation, hello. So when we talk about development aid, I'd like to set two things aside here. So funding large-scale para-state world organisations because it is also aiding Germany in the refugee crisis because these are the two main expenditures within this development aid. I don't see anything else. So besides helping to take care of refugees, meaning the German problem in Turkey, we're all actually giving funding to these big para-state organisations that are located in New York, Brussels, etc. Convince me, you have a chance here to take your word right now and answer me for what I said, maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165359	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first will be spoken by the honourable representative Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, ma'am. State secretary with associates. So we received a very comprehensive report on the official development aid of the Republic of Croatia which as we could hear and read therefore takes place through the basic two... So through bilateral and multilateral assistance, with over 70% going through bilateral aid and here it is necessary and even listening to some discussions here, some things to be clarified but before that would just focus on geographical and thematic to say, the dimension of this official development aid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the geographical dimension as we could see and hear, therefore, the focus is placed on the eastern neighbourhood of Croatia, primarily on BiH, for which counterpart Stier rightly claimed that the common geostrategic space is together with the Republic of Croatia and it is completely understandable why BiH is, in that sense, the programme state for Croatia because ultimately the natural resources of BiH, transport resources etc., transport infrastructure is therefore compatible and complementary, on the other hand there is this and geopolitical dimension. As we can see here in recent days, even based on this meeting that took place a few days ago in Belgrade, the BiH, Turkey trilateral, Serbia where there were no representatives from BiH at all, and where one participant hosted the meeting, President Vukic made it clear that he proposed the next meeting to be a quadrilateral where Russia would be included. This automatically sends a message in fact to Southeast Europe still east of quotes, referring to Turkey and Russia in some ways, in fact, left Croatia under quotes to the West, and at this point it is not really certain that some forces from the international community would therefore not want to see BiH sooner in the EU than in the EU. Of course, this cannot be of interest to either BiH or its peoples, and of course it cannot be of interest to Croatia. And therefore, the development aid focusing on BiH certainly has its own both geopolitical and geostrategic dimension. On the other hand, we had the opportunity to hear some debates just before in front of one club, where it is troublesome to actually help some institutions in BiH and where it is, in fact, primarily addressed to help Croats in BiH, which is not true. Kolega Klisovic spoke nicely of an example of Mostar hospital where the assistance provided to Mostar hospital is not only directed to Croatians, after all this assistance is perceived as helping Croatia BiH. A fresher example so a few weeks ago, the Croatian government therefore approved additional funds, so outside of this contingent that has a central state office for the Catholic school centre in Bihac, which therefore attends a school of over 80% to say students who are members of Bosniak or not Croatian nationality. This should be seen not only to help the Croatian people in the Bihać region, but also to help BiH, but also to invest in my own image of the country itself, because these students, whether they are Croats, whether they are not Croats, will in fact remain in their permanent memory the fact that they have managed to finish school and a better quality school than their fellow citizens who attended civil schools thanks to the Republic of Croatia. And I'm sure that in my adulthood, I can't be unfriendly, therefore, to the Republic of Croatia. It's a similar thing with school centres in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Tuzli etc. I don't want to talk about it any further. What I would like to mention further, therefore, is this geographical to say the dimension of development aid where the EU's eastern neighbourhood is actually focusing on Ukraine, and it is actually clear why this Croatia participates in a significant part and through bilateral but something more through the multilateral dimension of this aid. The southeast, therefore, or neighbourhood of the EU, Jordan is again a programme state and clearly why. So Jordan has taken care of millions of refugees even earlier, so the Palestinians from Israel, and from Egypt, and now from Syria, Iraq, etc., and certainly this dimension of development aid has its own humanitarian dimension. Afghanistan as a country which is still actually at war and in fact Croatia can offer added value to itself so to say the financial amount. Why? Because we were the recipient of development humanitarian aid and we know very well how important our national, domestic, state property is over this aid so that it can achieve the maximum possible effect. And that's what we can also offer as an experience, without speaking therefore about the experience of the process of demining that here we can offer Afghanistan and this and Syria and here and Colombia which is again.../incomprehensible/... state on the South American continent. So these are all the things that, even now, if someone asks a question, is Croatia still a country relatively poorer than part of the EU, should it participate in this development of assistance? I would say that, therefore, it is certainly an investment so in diplomatic, international ratings but also economic development in the future. I often mention the example of Japan because I collaborated with them as the Minister of Health in BiH on projects such as development and humanitarian aid, so in 2004, Japan marked 50 years of its development aid, which means it's '54. The year started with that. So it's only less than nine years after the defeat in the war, after the atomic bombs that fell to Japan, today we see where Japan is, and Japan is in '54. the year was practically in the ranks of the development of the former Yugoslavia. Since Croatia was more developed at that moment than the very part of Yugoslavia, it was below to say the developmental rank of this then Croatia, so it entered the development projects and Japan not only because of this, but also because of this communication with the world today is one of the most developed and advanced countries in the world. Therefore, we should absolutely support this report and this participation of Croatia in the official development of help whether it is bilateral, whether it is multilateral, because as I said it is an investment in future and economic and political rating and diplomatic position of the Republic of Croatia because the global challenges that we are now talking about here as a member of the EU, migration crisis, migration threats that have been talked about, and colleagues Klisovic talked about, so investment in the region of broadcasting migrants we are actually solving the problem at its source this and not to say so when it spills on our borders or our country. For this reason, I actually think that the Republic of Croatia has well defined its programming countries, its programming areas and should be monitored, so where this development aid is does not provide the expected result that we are actually looking for at the end of the day, then we need to revise it eventually, these areas, in any case, should be supported and, of course, try to go towards what the EU has defined as the goal, that it is even increasing from the current 0.10% to 0.33% as much as the EU recommends to its Member States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165361	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165362	Thank you, Vice President HS. Mr. Ljubic, your discussion has actually given me an opportunity to remind myself of one more thing I forgot, of course you can give your opinion, which is institutions that should really be supported. One of these is, say, the Croatian Catholic School in Banja Luka. A school attended not only by Croats but also by Bosniaks and Serbs, which allows for a better treatment of Croats in that environment, which is very often not easy for them. The people who finish that school, the parents who send their children, surely cannot be hostile to the Croats. This school also needs some help for its functioning, so these institutions that have a broader meaning than the very interest of the narrow for the Croatian people, a much wider contribution to their improvement in the environments in which they live, in those local environments, so let's say I would advocate a continuous dialogue with Bishop Komarica about such things, what are the key things that could be helped in Republika Srpska, for example, in BiH?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165363	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165364	I thank my colleague Klisovic. Of course I mentioned it in this context, in fact in most of these school centres as I said in Bihać, Sarajevo, Tuzle, Banja Luka, etc., most children are non-Croatian nationalities and it certainly is this one that provides more quality education than those children can get in their civil schools, regardless of what the program teaches in them is fully civil nature approved therefore from the competent cantonal or republican authorities such as this case of Republika Srpska convinced only that it does not only contribute to a better sense of members of the Croatian people in those environments because they have what to offer to their fellow citizens, something that is better than they can actually get creating friends of Croatian, I would say, the future because these children, regardless of which religions, they are world-sight, will never forget that they have finished school. Thanks... [[Intruder: Thank you]] Croatian. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165365	Next individual debates by respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165366	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ma'am. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, so I won't be too long because a lot of things have already been said, but I want to look at a few things, which is yes, I think it's good to discuss this report today, and I think it's good to talk about this in public so that our citizens can figure out how important it is to implement this strategy, because our fellow citizens are still not perceptive or let's say it like this, people are now looking at us as if we're giving some kind of help to some other countries, although in many segments we are the very country to help, that's the wrong view I would say so, and so it's good that we don't have to talk about this today and we have to point out more things here, so when we talk about, about this help that we have two directions, it means bilateral assistance and multilateral help, and now we should not have to talk about this debate as a fellow member of the international organisation who, as some kind of money that he doesn't know where it't go. For centuries we wanted our country and we got it hard and how we got it, and also, we have to be part of international organisations, we can't be an island alone, alone on the globe of the Earth, so it's normal that we are a member of the UN and that we finally and achieved the strategic goal of membership in the EU and NATO, and as such we have to respect certain contracts that come from these memberships, but also being part of global assistance, means some undeveloped third-world countries let's say so, but the second thing why we need to talk about this is that citizens understand that from, this is not only help, but that the RH also has a real benefit from this and in the future can benefit, here and the fellow Stier and fellow Pusić have this experience in Colombia, and I am in another discussion when we are talking about demining in Colombia, I have a new member of the Committee on Interparliaanic Cooperation, here with the other member of the other member of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Europeans of the Europeans of the Republic of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the So, I should talk about it all the time in person, and I think, too, when we agree in the end, we will also support this report with the appeal of what counterpart Klisovic said for some future periods that perhaps a more detailed strategy should be shown through the report and we should develop these plans that should be touched in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165367	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165368	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I'm going to be so invited to this brief colleague of Djujic's, I'm going to try to be concise I won't talk too much. I'd like to highlight three thoughts. The first thought regarding the strategy, but also the reports, is that Croatia is being emancipated and on this plan, to understand what opportunities Croatia has for development cooperation for Croatia when it comes to its positioning on the global scene in our continent, of course its economy. This is very clearly articulated in this report, and when we look at the law that was passed ten years ago, if we compare it with what it produces today in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and elsewhere when it comes to development aid, that's what the people's sky and the country would say. Now we're just seeing, we realize everything in that area can be done, and I'd say we have to do it. The second thought is about the relationship of multilateral and bilateral, meaning the initiating of money into projects that are multilateral and bilateral, and I see that we still have plenty of room to improve. In fact, in the case of the Republic of Croatia, we have 72% going into multilateral aid and 23% going to bilateral aid. I took a look at, say, the data for the Federal Republic of Germany, in Germany for 2015 amounted to about 16 billion euros in co-operation for development cooperation of 12.7 billion euros in bilateral aid, and only 3.5 billion euros in multilateral aid, meaning vice versa. The Germans are focusing on bilateral aid. As counterpart Djujuć said, of course Croatia must fulfil its obligations to multilateral organisations and remain on this plan consistently, we do, but here we see what else is possible for us in Croatia to do more on the bilateral plan, to initiate money into concrete bilateral projects in South East Europe. I think we need to expand that, that's what I was talking about this morning when we talked about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So both in BiH and Serbia, the entire Western Balkans is essentially one area where Croatia can act bilaterally smartly, not only in a way to give money to some bookstore, I said this, in Zepč and in Subotica or I don't know in Kosovo, but to go into strengthening the economy and strengthen the economic resilience of those countries that are neighbouring countries. That's what we're supposed to do. But what is good, I saw it in the strategy that was written in 2017, which was adopted under fellow Stier was the foreign minister, meaning one progress in the area of thinking about Croatia's position in the world. It is a real guideline, and so we must continue and therefore I support the report, but I suggest here in the Croatian Parliament that we strengthen this segment of bilateral assistance and apply this assistance to projects concerning Croats in BiH, Serbia and elsewhere, but let's see how we can make one upgrade and go to other projects that concern strengthening economic resilience. I am sure we can activate a lot of Croatian economic potentials in this area. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165369	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165370	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Kovac, you're absolutely right, multilateral activity and development aid is very important, especially for small countries like us because if we don't have big money, big funds that we can place far beyond our country's borders, we can do it through multilateral forums, and even a small payment you're sitting at a table that decides where those big money will go. And that's very important to us if we have our interests, our goals. And in this context I am also about to go through multilaterally to pay as much as possible, not too much, but to ensure that Croatia participates in defining where this aid really will go, that we have some word, some power. And in this context, of course, it is important that we pay international membership fees and that what Mr. Zekanovic said, it could have been said in Marrakesh there that a lot of people would have heard him as we had the opportunity to see on TV when he protested with a large number of large people who disagreed with the UN policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165371	Thank you. Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165372	I'm glad my colleague Klisovic agrees with my little one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165373	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165374	Comrade Kovac, you have emphasized this bilateral cooperation, why is this important? It's important and we've been spinning around both the amount and the money all the time. It's not all about money. I'm going to say now, let's say one form of cooperation, I don't know if it falls under this strategic aid, probably not even falling, and that's Israel and the great fires that they had and the assistance of Croatian pilots falls under this, okay, even better, here's a good example, so it's not all about money we've given our knowledge and people and our abilities there in Israel to put out the fires where we have a huge experience and where our pilots are, so I'll dare say one of the better ones in the world, and on the other hand, we through Israel can do one cooperation that will give us economic swings, this one that you've been telling us about if we know how much Israel has developed and watering, the systems of agriculture in difficult circumstances when we look at our Slavonia that hasn't been used. So these are some exchanges of experiences that we can use in these bilateral collaborations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165375	Thank you. Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165376	I am glad that my colleague Djujic agrees with me, and I have another, one, one proposal that we seem to have done here already last year, which is that we should have considered specifically within the Croatian government, within the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to change the law, to amend the law and to install a mechanism to facilitate implementation and cooperation in a way that one specialised agency in Croatia is set up, a specialised agency in which private capital would be, meaning not only, that would be the stakeholders and state structures means government through several state bodies, but also private capital, such as the Germans, have Austrians, have others, it would certainly be a contribution to increasing the efficiency of Croatia on this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165377	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the rapporteur, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Zdravka Busic, will say something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165378	And thank you, gentlemen of MPs and MPs to me, I would say delivery to a constructive debate, but there have been some opinions that I would like to comment on, and first of all, I would like to respond to whether there exists through official development aid, whether it is shutting down and it is actually not shutting down and it is not choking, but the total amount is really growing. 2/3, I would also like to say that 2/3 of official development aids are directed across the EU, and it would be wrong, then the wrong conclusion is not as far as our overall assistance is concerned, there is far more help here on the other side than whether it is on the side of what we have set aside for BiH, overall when we look at the amounts. Mr. Klisovic, to whom I thank for the debate, but I would just like to say that the objectives and priorities set out in this, in the national strategy, really here we have a very detailed national strategy, and this which, I hope that Mr. Kovac, we will have one.../incomprehensible/... as there is, of course, what you yourself have mentioned Germany and Austria yourself, it would be really good, and all of you were actually quite constructive in carrying out how and how we can act. Here's Mr. Djujic mentioned Colombia, and I was alone in Colombia, and I know how through these things that we've provided bilaterally through 20,000 euros, we've pulled out I'd say five times. However, we still have enough and you yourself mentioned what I was very pleased about, but you see what it means when it goes away, so it's said, and then it's talked to the deputy foreign minister who was here and I met with her in Colombia and also in Croatia. We also have a psychosocial assistance society which Croatia, although not directly, is helping indirectly across the EU because we are contributing to this fund. I'd still be here if I didn't, I know everyone's in a hurry, I'd really have to comment on what Mr. Zekanovic said. Well, we're a state and we're members, we have to pay membership fees in organizations, international organisations where we are, I really don't know what to do, so in any way I don't insult Mr. Representative, we're still trying here at OECD, hopefully we'll get there as soon as possible. Each international organisation carries its own membership, and that is not only, I think no country would pay membership fees if that membership and that participation did not benefit from that membership. So we are members here you see for ourselves how much and we are always this and we are proud and pleased and all of us were aimed at EU membership, membership, of course we first became a member of the UN in 1992, 1996. The Council of Europe, now the EU and of course we are members and health, international health organisations, it is perfectly normal. So I don't know about this, so here's a lot of comment, so thank you very much for having everyone over for the debate once again. I hope we've pulled some out, here and seen and somehow looked at everything we've been working on, where we've kind of focused on, and thanks to your discussions we'll see and we'll look at everything again, and we'll see that in the next here's the strategies and the changes and the additions, we'll complement and consider what you've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165379	Thank you very much. I would then conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165380	Report on the implementation of the official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and 2018 The bearer is the Government. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the implementation of the official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 100 for, 1 abstention and 4 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165381	We move to the following point, that is: - The final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, reading, P.Z. Number 753 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, once again, the secretary of state at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of Mrs. Zdravka Busic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165382	... Let me present to you the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of a comprehensive and enhanced Partnership Agreement between the EU and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The EU Council has adopted a decision authorising the European Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to launch negotiations on a framework agreement between the EU and Armenia. The negotiations on the agreement began on 7 December 2015 and the EU and Armenia initialled the agreement on 21 March 2017. It was signed, the agreement was signed on 24 November 2017. on the sidelines of the summit of the Eastern, Eastern Partnership. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the agreement was signed by Mr Mate Škrabalo, our special and authorised ambassador of the Republic of Croatia, as a permanent representative of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and to the European Atomic Energy Community, which is based in Brussels. The Armenian Parliament unanimously ratified this agreement on 11 April 2018. So far, 17 EU member states have ratified this agreement. For the EU, including, of course, the Republic of Croatia, this agreement is an important step towards strengthening political dialogue and concreteising bilateral co-operation with Armenia, and the agreement will also ensure greater political and economic engagement in the EU, and influence in countries covered by the Eastern Partnership. The relations of the Republic of Macedonia with Armenia are very good, very good and we have no controversial nor open questions. The implementation of this law will take place within the framework of the regular activities of the state administration body and will not, will not need to provide additional resources in the state budget. For all of this, I ask you to support the adoption of this law, Mr. Vice President HS, gentlemen of MPs and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165383	Thank you very much. Does a representative, a committee reporter, want to take a word for it? No, then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative, Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165384	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, today we have before us a confirmation or ratification of a comprehensive enhanced partnership agreement with Armenia, this is one agreement that otherwise the EU signs with countries that do not have the highest level of cooperation, so not only in terms of membership, but also in that agreement on associated membership which, for example, does not. It has been signed by Ukraine, Armenia has had the opportunity to do so as a country that is involved in the Eastern Partnership, but it has decided on this level, for this level of comprehensive enhanced partnership agreement, something similar we had recently here in HS when the EU signed it for example. with Cuba, so you have one partner council that manages these contractual relations that regulates political dialogue, the issue of human rights, the issue of the rule of law and of course the trade in investment, the protection of products, the protection of the originality of products, and that is good for example. that, of course, these Croatian products are protected in this agreement now and in this new market in Armenian, so as far as Croatian vines, grassland, pelinkovec, plums, Zadar maraskin are concerned, so all that is already protected, Armenia is bound to be protected on their market and that in a rather extensive document that has so many annexes with all these products already, which are already protected in the EU and now accepts Armenia. However, this agreement, which in itself is not at all controversial, may have one political dimension that should be highlighted here, which is precisely that decision by Armenia that in 2017. The agreement with the EU on partnership, not on associated membership, on accession, on the agenda, was negotiated, but Armenia decided to join one other union, that Euro-Asian, with Russia, with Belarus, with Kyrgyzstan, is said to have joined Serbia, at least because of its obvious position, so we know about the Nagorno Karabach case, in some way and the close relations Armenia has with Moscow, decided to go with Russia to this Euro-Asian Union and not to have a deeper relationship with the EU, namely the EU has already taken note of this, then a new lower-intensity agreement has come to the agenda, so there are no provisions on free trade that might otherwise have to have with Armenia, namely the EU has already decided on this form of agreement. So I'm agreeing to say it's not controversial. This dimension may also be needed to highlight the change in the international order in Europe, to a strengthened role and influence of Moscow, especially in the space of the former Soviet Union. The idea, which is in the 1990s about the enlargement of the EU, about a united and free Europe that then spreads, is clearly weak today in front of a new logic of the spheres of interest, and then Russia is creating its own sphere of interest. This is not any recreation from the Soviet Union, but that Moscow plays a crucial role in this area and this is shown in this case with Armenia, which has decided to give priority to relations with Moscow rather than with the EU. This is all of course something we have to follow and we need to look broadly at how this new order affects both our position in Europe and the world, but of course it would be a topic for a longer discussion and perhaps it would be necessary in this House of Commons. But as for this concrete agreement with Armenia, the HDZ Club will, of course, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165385	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Josko Klisovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165386	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's a very short one on this subject. The SDP club will also support this agreement, we believe that it is good for its content, the usual text the EU has with non-European countries with which there is no strategic partnership and that has not shown interest in joining the EU. As counterpart Stier said, Armenia had even had that chance but in 2017 it did not take advantage of it, they were important relations with Russia and the community established by Russia, which is legitimately the right of every sovereign state to decide which way to go forward. What is important to us, we have a strategic partnership agreement with Azerbaijan and there is atrocity of our interests, especially economic and energy interests, which should also be looked after, but it is very good, I think we have good relations with Armenia, including in the context of the EU. Armenia's areas are one area where there is still a frozen conflict as it is said, since there are more in the former Soviet Union and there is, of course, careful access to national policy, foreign policy, as well as the EU community. However, we must not forget that this whole region is of interest to Croatia, that it is of interest to our economy and that it is in this energy, financial, economic sense, but also cultural terms. Whenever he was officially in those countries, he was very interested in cultural cooperation, in cooperation in the field of education or in cooperation in the field of sports. Since Armenian neighbour Azerbaijan is quite a wealthy country because of its energy resources, they lack knowledge. Knowledge can only be gained from those who have, so our people here too could go that way towards the Caucasus which I don't think is bad, I think it's good and that we're strengthening relations with these countries by not getting too deep into their bilateral problems that are historic, which are probably long-term and we're probably not going to be able to solve them ourselves, but we can figure out what's going on in those countries to take the right position ourselves. But balanced relations with Armenia as well as with Azerbaijan is something Croatia must have and in this context we also support the signing of this contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165387	Thank you very much. We are moving on to an individual debate, and she has been contacted by a respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165388	Thank you, Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. Oh, very briefly, here I am going to be referring to a colleague of Klisovic's. So I personally also support this agreement which is good and comprehensive and which is again one indicator of Croatia's presence in international organisations and the importance of such agreements because, let's say, I don't know, my colleague Zekanovic would now tell us what this agreement is, which we now have from it and probably would have performed in such a way. However, this agreement, although it seems irrelevant to the eye, is extremely important. And this, as counterpart Klisovic said, because he, apart from the agreement, opens up Croatia's space for other forms of cooperation. In your opening statement, you said that even Croatia has better relations with Armenia than the EU itself, and this agreement is only one upgrade of these relations and opens up space for economic co-operation. So I would expand it not only in Azerbaijan and Armenia, but in Georgia, it means the whole area. We in Georgia had an honorary Croatian consul who is a highly influential entrepreneur and economics there, one of the wealthier people of Georgia. I don't know how many people know that we have an honorary consul like that, he owns the largest cognac factory and such people who are friends of Croatia exist in these countries and love Croatia very much and admire Croatia very much. And I think that as a country, we even use them too little because, say, they can open up all forms of economic cooperation to us in those countries, and I think that we should do the same in the future. Generally, support for any such form of agreement that will ultimately bring only benefit to our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165389	We have a replica of the respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165390	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Djujic is absolutely right. This region, as we have said, is important for Croatia, is not recognised in Croatia as important for Croatia. 90% of our oil or over 90 we import from that region, it's very important. And not to say that Armenia as a state is extremely important for Croatia and as a kind of bridge and entrance both towards Russia and America. Armenia has an awfully strong diaspora in America which is very much like this if it's friendly to you, a useful ally when you want to lobby some of your stuff around American institutions. Since Russia is a kind of patron of Armenia on the Caucasus, of course you have closer relations through Armenia then and with Russians who are not insignificant in the European political space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165391	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165392	This is exactly how counterpart Klisovic, so if we cannot directly cooperate with Russia in some areas, it is known why, through these partner relations with countries that have the kind of relationship they have with Russia, we can certainly achieve this cooperation, in the end of all these cooperations, what is most important is the most important interest of the Republic in all these relations both in trade and in economic and economic, means tourism or everything, in fact we should always look at the interest of our country, and cooperation with such countries certainly extends those opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165393	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the motionary, something will be said by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Zdravka Busic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165394	... I thank you for the debate and for this support, we were all kind of, we supported this proposal, which, I would just say that I absolutely agree with everyone who said that this Eastern partnership is important to us, and I hope that you have heard that we are preparing, during the presidency we will have a summit on the Eastern Partnership and of course all of this country, 6 countries, these especially mentioned by Armenia, Azerbaijan, so here I will tell you all the same thing that we have opened an embassy in Azerbaijan, in Baku recently, which is very important and I agree that these countries, Georgia, Moldova, Belarus too, Ukraine, Ukraine, you will agree that, that we have had a very, very, very important group of Ukraine, which we have had a very large programme, and that we are really happy to tell you that we have been in all of this programme, and that we have been in all this conference, and that we have been in all of this region, and that we have been in all of this region, and we have been in all of this region. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So the Republic of Croatia is absolute, absolutely present and with great interest this in all countries of what we have, of course, we have our own interest in them. Here I would just look back so much if we were really taking care of it, taking care of it, and we're present in all countries, and we're aware of the needs of that engagement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165395	Thank you. They volunteered for the replicas of counterpart Klisovic, there is little uncertainty whether you used it or not, but I will give you, of course, this one and my colleagues, Djujic, this replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165396	Thank you, Vice President HS. There was only one replica I had, Mr. Giujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165397	You had two for sure, but the question is if you had three.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165398	Two? Well, I'm not three then. Because there weren't three speakers, the opening lady said. Secretary of State, Mr. Stier on behalf of the club, me on behalf of the club, and then Mr. Djujic, I couldn't have three of them, could I? I just wanted to commend this government effort, so if he really means having a summit on the Eastern Partnership during the presidency, that's a good idea. As far as I understand it will also be a summit on the Western Balkans, so we will have two summits on foreign policy issues, here on my part only this commendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165399	Thank you. Dear, honourable representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165400	.../Laughter/... Why? I am also glad that the government recognises the importance of cooperation and work in these regions that ultimately the Republic of Croatia has the most benefits, so especially in this word close to the East, we can say to the Middle East countries, so it is certainly the opening of an embassy in Azerbaijan, I have been there and finally the appointment of ambassadors officially after being an emissary of jobs for some time, contributes to this cooperation because these countries are also extremely important that the RH also works there and opens and opens up the institutions of its country, and you have extended the entire region, and I am very pleased that there is in fact a sense that there is a huge potential for cooperation and benefit for our country, here thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165401	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165402	The final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of a comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, read, P.Z. No. 753, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed and I am voting on the final proposal for that law, please vote. I find that most votes, 115 "for" and 4 "abstained" votes were passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165403	We move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act for Human Consumption, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 754. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. RH and Art. 172, Rules of Procedure HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Tomislav Dulibic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165404	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The European Commission is on 8 March 2019. The Republic of Croatia sent a letter of formal notice because of the non-compliance of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with Article 1(1) of the Treaty. 3rd century 3rd, Art. 4th century 1st. a., art. 6th century 1st. a., art. 6th century 2nd and Article 2nd of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6th century 3. Directive 98/83 of the European Community of 3 November 1998. on the quality of water intended for human consumption, which is also the reason for the change in the current normative solution. In relation to individual water supply relating to the use of private cups, tanks, etc., using the right to exemption from art. Paragraph 3. 2. b. Directive 98/83 of the EC introduces a legal proposal to supplement the provisions of the Law on the notification of residents on individual water supply systems as well as provisions relating to the counselling of the affected population from local and individual water supply, and to inform through the website of the public health services services in the units of the regional self-government and with the aim of protecting consumers through the notification of the population and the provision of appropriate advice. Furthermore, in order to comply with Article 4(1)(a) and Article 6(1)(a) of Council Directive 98/83/EC, the legislative proposal shall, in order to comply with Article 4(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 98/83 of the European Parliament and of the Council, amend the concept of health-corrected water for human consumption and the concept of place of consumption in order to comply with the provision of Article 6(3). Directive 98/83 of the EC will, by means of a legislative proposal, supplement the provisions relating to the responsibility of the owner of the internal network in the event of a derogation from the water consumption parameters intended for human consumption and resulting from an inappropriate internal network or its poor maintenance in such a way that the owner is responsible and the user of the internal network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165405	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. One respected representative of Slavnik Dobrović first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165406	Thank you very much. Here I would ask, therefore, the Water Act for Human Consumption, namely, internal laboratories were once very strictly prescribed and they actually ensure that the quality of the water supply service is done at one prescribed high level. But that's missing. And I would like to ask if you can explain why these legislative changes that have been going on for a year, two, three in a row are going to weaken that local component, so the deterioration of public water supply because it is obvious, because it is no longer mandatory or is prescribed to be simply weakened for this important segment. Can you give me an explanation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165407	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165408	Thank you very much. So this bill does not go with the goal of reducing the number of official controls. Although the official controls of the lab are being conducted. Also, at present over 88% of human consumption water is considered correct. We've introduced norms that prescribe it and so we feel it doesn't suit the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165409	Next is the replica of the respected representative Mark Sladoliev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165410	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I have a proposal for you, i.e. maybe advice. So, I don't know if you've heard of the Freewa app, it's an app that young people patented and it's an app that shows, it's free, on the phone and smartphones where the first source of the public tap is. I think it's a very good project. But what I got was no support from the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So here's what you think is... So what do you think of this project? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So an app free that shows people where the public tap is. I think it's very good for tourism, and I think it could be a Croatian export product.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165411	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I can say that we generally support such a project, we're not in the opposite, we invite them, and we'll talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165414	Thank you very much to the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament. I warmly welcome the secretary of state with an associate and respected colleague and fellow MPs. The water law for human consumption regulates the health regularity of water for human consumption and this is a new alignment with EU legislation, in fact, I think it is now third in two years. I purposely asked why the issue of internal laboratories, once a very important segment of water supply, is left out, and in fact an important part of every major municipal company because it actually makes the wholeness of this service, so the community does so to all professions that together ensure quality, independence, sufficientness and ultimately a quality service of water supply for its local environment. Of course, this direction as we see it is going to a certain centralisation of jurisdiction, so the weakening of public companies, in fact, is organisational, professional and humane. Of course, that is the conclusion that can be drawn from these changes. So something that was once very important, and by the very logic of things very important today practically doesn't exist. When further consideration is given, since this is of course a matter of health care, here is the Ministry of Health's jurisdiction, but we have recently harmonised water laws, water services. As well as funding for the water economy. In fact, it is clear that it is preparing a matter for simpler, easier concessioning, partial or complete privatisation of water services in Croatia. This is all, of course, coming all together from Brussels, it is part of European policy, and this is due to the fact that in the EU water is far more treated as market goods, and significantly less as human rights, and that it has already started the process of privatising water services, or the multi-annual concession of water supply activities, decades ago. I will remind, for example, Berlin and Paris, which were among the first major cities in Europe to privatise this municipal service and then return it to public administration after bad experiences. In Berlin, therefore, privatisation was made in 1999, so when a public private partnership contract was signed to which 49.9% of the city's company was sold, it was dedicated to a consortium of two large multinational companies. Already after 3 years the price of the service has increased 30%, and there has been dissatisfaction and public questioning of contract provisions to actually discover that regulated rights and obligations are therefore concessionaires. However, it has been found that the contract is secret, so there is secrecy and that the public cannot in fact know that these rights and obligations are defined or regulated. That is why there was a protest and finally a referendum in 2011 in which 98% of the citizens of Berlin requested the disclosure of these contractual secrets. And found that actually the concessionaire has guaranteed a profit, so I'll repeat he has guaranteed profits for the entire 30-year concession period. So much for the freedom of the market and this, in fact, to expand these business circumstances, in which the market, competition, will provide a cheaper service and a higher quality of service. What does that mean, guaranteed? This means that in case the concessionary does not get enough money, that he has the right to compensation and that the citizens, or the city, pay compensation. Revolt in Berlin challenged that the city government eventually decided to terminate the contract, negotiate and that in 2014, the water supply of the city of Berlin for large money was returned from public administration. In Paris it was simpler, namely there simply after 25 years of concession period in which the main thing that could have been recorded was the collection of a service of 260% and indeed a minimum investment in maintenance led to a simple contract not being extended in 2010. However, the bad experience of privatisation in Europe, i.e. the EU, is far more than just this kind of news, for some reason, slightly spreading to European media space. The provisions of multi-annual contracts guaranteeing the investor or concessionaire profits either through consumption or a single price have shown their true meaning in Portugal. We have two examples of the city of Barcelos 120,000 inhabitants did not meet one of the conditions and the concessionaire was entitled to compensation of as much as EUR 127 million through the arbitration procedure. The second smaller town of Pacos de Ferreira faced a 400% water collection of course in order to ensure sufficient income, resulting in protests and requests for the termination of the contract, however, the city was in the face of a compensation claim of an unintelligible EUR 100 million. Many other EU member states, in particular those from the south in financial difficulties, have faced recommendations from Brussels to address the crisis, including regular measures to privatise water supplies. Portugal, Greece and Italy were hit. In Italy, for example, it is 2010. passed a law requiring units of local self-government to privatise a minimum of 40% of all public services. The citizens' response came in the 2011 referendum when 95% of Italy's voters said against privatising water supplies. So, things are still changing we'd say for the better because the public woke up so she realized that things couldn't just be left to the high administration for decision-making and regulation. So we can find out in the documentary until the last drop, the author of George Avgeropoulos, that it's in the 2000 period. – by 2015, as many as 235 cases of recovery from private supply to the public sector have been recorded. It's interesting as much as 94 in France, so France first introduced the country that privatised water. So if in France the richest experience and knowledge of water privatisation is returned to the country, what can we conclude? It's simple not to be allowed to privatise water at all. It would therefore be good to allow water health care and return to the local level, to re-recognise the importance and cherish the system of independent water quality control through internal laboratories for which strict conditions for equipment, accommodation and work have been laid down, and are now completely abandoned. Therefore, to avoid the risk of making wrong political decisions with far-reaching consequences in the area of water supply at local level, it would be very important to further constitutionally protect the water in Croatia because current protection is not enough and especially today when there is a great interest of multinational companies to extend their business to this area as well. At least it can be learned, water supply cannot really provide real and fair conditions for competition or competition. That is why we have advocated and proposed and we believe and soon before this honorable meeting in the Assembly, we will discuss the proposal for constitutional protection in the assembly because we propose that a special article, which will state that water supply is a building non-profit municipal activity under public administration, protect this important sector because I will remind everyone, we are obliged to safeguard our wealth uncompromisingly and protect national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165415	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Pero Ćosic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, By the amount of renewable drinking water per capita is among the 30 richest countries in the world and it is certainly among the first in Europe and the preservation of this resource is of our invaluable national importance and in this sense we welcome this takeover of the obligation of further harmonisation of the Water Act for Human Consumption with Council Directive 98/83 EC since 3 November 198. The aim of this Directive is to protect the health of its citizens from the negative effects of any pollution of water intended for human consumption by ensuring its health quality. According to her, water is healthy and clean if it is free of any micro-organisms and any substance identified by numbers or concentrations poses a potential risk to human health. We have public, local and individual water supply in the Republic of Croatia, in 2018 133 legal persons who carry out public water supply activities and 220 local water pipelines acted in the Republic of Croatia. It is estimated that around 90% of the population is connected to public water supply in the Republic of Croatia and around 1.5% local, which means that almost 10% of our population is not connected to public water supply. The right to safe and clean drinking water is a human right and given the amount of our water resources and supplies of drinking water, it is our obligation to provide all our citizens with available and healthy water. In order to protect human health, prescribed controls are carried out for human consumption in a public distribution network and at a higher level, the first of course self-control system, carried out by public suppliers in the largest part in their own laboratories and in 2018, public water service suppliers analysed more than 74 000 samples on chemical indicators and more than 55 000 on microbiological indicators, found 1,245 chemical and 0.3% microbiological fault samples. Monitoring of water for human consumption as a second level of dealing with public health institutions, county institutions and HZZO, and in the public distribution network in 2018, some 7,000 samples were caused, regularly more than 600 samples of audit monitoring. The total number of invalid water samples of one or more indicators was 2.4% higher than this percentage of self-control because these are complex analyses covering several parameters and are likely deviations or overruns and, of course, audit monitoring is done in those areas where some drinking water pollution was involved, so it is repeated here. The percentage of incorrect samples is significantly higher in 2018 compared to 2017, as a new regulation has been introduced at the end of 2017, which has enabled the monitoring of a number of indicators in regular monitoring, resulting in a higher number of incorrect samples in the area of Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County. Increases in arsenic, iron, manganese and ammonia concentrations are naturally present in the plumbers of Pannonian Croatia and are not the result of anthropogenic activities. It has not been proven that arsenic in Eastern Slavonia is the result of human action but is the result of the composition through which that water passes and therefore it is necessary to monitor arsenic concentration in drinking water because it poses a potential danger to human health. In coastal springs, the occurrences of increased levels of chloride and sodium were reported due to the depletion of the spring especially during dry periods of the year and it was also known that water for drinking was cloudy and microbiologically polluted after stronger rainfalls. Such occurrences of opacity and microbiological pollution are also linked to faults on the water supply system network, which are daily in our waterways because we know that the losses of our water lines are generally greater than 40%, however, there are all these microbiological pollutants that are short-lived and are regularly removed by normal washing and disinfection measures. However, the biggest incident in public water supply systems took place in the Slavonski Brod area at the end of March 2018, allow me, firsthand, to explain that in this case, the happiness of water pollution was not there. For unknown reasons, water samples were polluted, making water at the Jelas station supplying Slavonski Brod and surrounding municipalities, which has been declared polluted and medically faulty by approximately 100,000 inhabitants, speculating that water pollution occurred due to an accent that occurred in an old pipeline study that planned the gas refinery in Bosnia Ship. In this case, there was a series of illogicalities, and it is illogical that the said accent happened a day earlier at a distance of more than 2 km from the station and all those who do not know or know hydrogeology, can know that this water cannot reach the underground and the gas station for a day, it takes months and years to contaminate the drain. It was illogical that in the samples there was an extremely high concentration of hydrocarbons from 500 to 800 micrograms per litre, and we had one pollution in 2008 when it was 70 to 80 micrograms per litre in a settlement where the water felt, it had to be smelled and this pipeline had to be tested to further function as a drinking water distribution. It is illogical that the samples showed a higher concentration of hydrocarbons in the water network among end-users who were miles away from the drain and were with purified water than they were in certain wells on the drain. It's illogical that they're so-called. BTXs, these are carcinogenic elements found in hydrocarbons, especially in gasoline, that is benzene, benezoapieren were within the limits of the reference values, so that there was a series of illogicalities in these test results. In addition to all these illogicalities, however, the public has been warned by an urgent procedure not to consume water for writing. For two weeks, citizens were taking drinking water from bottles and tanks, they were corrupt and Easter holidays because it happened just on the Big Friday, they were scared, they were upset, but again they showed exceptional civil courtesy and courage. They organized themselves into headquarters, shared water, volunteered for community, and all state services did their job. But now that we know there hasn't been any pollution of groundwater, can we say that their claims as well as millions of kunas of public money have been needlessly spent? After a series of subsequent samplings and tests that showed that the water was healthy, or after two weeks of warning, the citizens were able to drink tap water again, the relevant services made an investigation and found that the pollution of the underground as well as the water in the network was not even present, that only samples were polluted. Unfortunately, no perpetrator, no way, no moment in which this pollution occurred. In this case, we can learn that, in addition to the provisions of this law that are provided for and penalties for perpetrators, we need to be much more careful about monitoring the regularity of drinking water, so if there are such illogicalities in the sample testing, the public health care services should be able to engage more independent laboratories in a hasty manner so as not to develop public panic and create unnecessary costs. Compared to public local water supply from the health aspect, it poses a high risk because water is delivered to consumers without any treatment and often without disinfection. In 2018, this resulted in more than half of the 539 samples sampled in local water pipelines being incorrect. The most common reason for water failure in the water supply network of local water is microbiological pollution and from chemical parameters increased iron and arsenic concentrations. It is therefore very important to monitor quality in local waterways as well. This legislative proposal introduces the notion of individual water supply, which refers to individual water supply provided that consumption is less than 10 metres cubic per day and is intended for less than 50 inhabitants. Individual water supply means the use of wells, wells, tanks, the health of this water is constantly changing, the water affected by the source of individual water supply may be questionable health correctness due to various flood pollutions, heavy rains, the influence of underground flows and others. For the time being, individual water supply facilities are not in the control system but are carried out at the personal request of the owner. However, it should be pointed out that, in the spirit of this law, the unit of local self-government in which individual water supplies are located, and in order to protect consumer health, it is obliged to inform the population supplied by the individual water supply system that they are exempt from the monitoring plan, that the water used by the individual water supply is potentially healthy and can have negative health effects, and that, if the health water failure of the local self-government unit with the competent public health care authority is demonstrated, it must provide advice to the affected population in which the water can be used or otherwise, to provide a minimum amount of water for drinking. I would add that, according to UN data, 2.1 billion people still do not have access to medical proper water in their homes. Fortunately, we have water from taps and health care and it is a treasure that needs to be protected and preserved. I am also convinced that the latest amendments to the Water Economy Act will also lead to the reorganisation and optimisation of public suppliers, and the identification of distribution areas as technological and economic units, to the improvement of the public water supply system, better coverage of the area, and the competence of all units of local self-government to ensure healthy drinking water for their population. Following the above mentioned above, the HDZ Representative Club will support the proposal for this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165417	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165418	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Act for Human Consumption, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 754, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act on Human Consumption and Others, all observations and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 "for, 40" abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165419	We now move to the next point, which is: - Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2018 The holder is HZMO based on Article 153. Pension Insurance Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Mr. Ivan Serdar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165420	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. and gentlemen of MPs, HZMO’s relevant affairs in the previous year were carried out in accordance with the positive legal regulations and the financial plan of the Institute, and according to the annual work plan of the Bureau which adopted the Administrative Council. The report before you is based on the same methodology as the previous years' reports for the data to be comparable. The report shall contain the usual chapters on the state of the pension insurance system of intergenerational solidarity, and on the establishment of the institute, and its human potential and information technology, on the work of the board of directors, financial operations and portfolio of the Institute, and of course the exercise of the right and the work of the professional service. In short, we can say that it is 2018. in the Office, it was in the form of implementing a series of new laws in the field of pension insurance. Each of these regulations required the development of a separate project and the entire professional service of the Institute was engaged to prepare their implementation. We are pleased to conclude that all jobs are carried out within the scheduled deadlines and impeccable as regards the implementation of norms in relation to the users covered by those regulations. 2018 has been marked by continuing intensive work on training of the EU institutions in the field of coordination of pension insurance and child care systems and projects extending the field of electronic business of the Institute. As regards the application of EU rules in the field of coordination of pension insurance systems and child allowances, the most important projects were the establishment of application solutions for the calculation and payment of allowances to the EU's minimum pensions, and for the non-refundable payment of allowances for children, seeking non-refundable payments for children from competent institutions of other EU Member States, the recording and systematic monitoring of payments by foreign institutions, and the payment of the amounts left over for children to the relevant EU Member States' institutions. In addition, as a user institution, the Institute has also participated in the IT infrastructure development project as part of strengthening administrative capacity and strengthening the institution for the implementation of social security regulations financed from the means of the transport instrument, etc. Transit facilitity. The objective of the project was to enable institutions, users of the programme to provide efficient social security services in order to adequately prepare institutions for the integration of the ESI system at EU level. In the ESI system, the institute was successfully involved in the middle of this year. At the end of October 2017 the institution has submitted a request for technical assistance from the support programme at... the reforms for a project declared under the Recommendation for the reform of the pension system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2018 in cooperation with external experts hired by the European Commission, an analysis of the intergenerational solidarity system and the role of the mandatory individual capitalisation system containing a comprehensive review of the Croatian pension system including the third pension pillar has been carried out. Other than representatives of the Institute and representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, the Central Insurance Register, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the Association of Pension Funds and Pension Insurance Companies were involved in the analysis. As regards the status of the pension insurance system, intergenerational solidarity, at the end of 2018. The data obtained are as follows, on 31 December 2018. In 2016, 1,236.258 users and 1,506.912 insurance companies were generated in the office, so that the ratio between the two groups was 1:1,22 which is a slightly more favourable ratio than in the previous two years, in 2016. The ratio was 1:1,17, and in 2017 it was 1:1,20. As for the financial operations of the Institute, the total revenues of the Institute amounted to 41 billion, 8 million kuna, and expenditures of 40 billion, 991 million kuna, pension and pension income expenditures amounted to HRK 39.24 billion, and in the structure of the total expenditure achieved are 95.74%. Compared to 2017 These expenditures are up by 4.2%. Retirement and pension expenditure increased due to the regular harmonisation of pensions of 3,67% as of 1 January 2018. for 0.94% and from 1 July 2018. by 2.7%, and in order to implement a decision to suspend pension cuts or additions to pensions under Article. 3a. Law on the reduction of pensions of certain or real under specific rules, application of the provisions on minimum pension for Croatian defenders, payments, payment of outstanding amounts of pensions collected up to 2018. According to the Law on the Continuing of Repayments of Retirements. Financial expenditure for 2018 They amounted to €27.27 million, of which €26 million refers to financial expenditures for pensions, and €1.18 million on other financial expenditures of institutions. In the total expenditure structure, financial expenditure accounts for 0.07%, compared to 2017. are lower by 9.1% due to a continuous reduction in the number of beneficiaries paid by mail. In addition, continued efforts have been made to streamline the operations of the Institute, leading to a gradual reduction in the share of expenditure for the pension system administration. In total expenditure on pension insurance of intergenerational solidarity from 1.7% from 2008 to 1.01% 2018. ... 0,97%, respectively, when total expenditure is included, and expenses for child allowance, payment by HZMO. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can be concluded from those data that the Institute has made a major contribution to reducing the costs of implementing pension insurance or stabilisation and sustainability of the system. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The share of pension expenditure in gross domestic product I do not know if it decreased to 10.41% from 11.01% in 2016 and in 2018. We continue to note the decline in the share of pension expenditures in GDP, so that the share is 10.28%. From 1 January 2017 the pensions achieved or determined under specific rules have begun to be re-coordinated in the same percentage as the pensions made under the general rules in pension insurance. Also due to more favourable economic developments and wage growth, the pension coordination rate was higher than in previous years, but due to the increase in GDP, the share of GDP pension expenditure decreased to 10.41% in 2017 and 10.28% in 2018 respectively. In 2018 a total of 51,075 users were registered who had first obtained pension rights, 37,668 old and early retirement pensions, 2,911 disability pensions and 10,496 family pensions, which is an increase of 5,02% compared to 2017 when they were 48,634 new users. The number of new people with disabilities has decreased compared to 2017 by 3.13%. The average retirement pension rate is 31 years, the beneficiary of an early retirement pension is 36 years, the disabled pensioner is 22 years old and the family pensioner is 28 years old. The average pension pension rate of all pensioners achieved under the Pension Insurance Act is 30 years, and in the last 10 years the average pension rate has increased by 1 year. The share of the total number of persons with a 40-year retirement period in the total number of pensioners achieved under the Pension Insurance Act gradually increased and was, for example, 13.57% in 2014 and increased to 16.18% by 31 December 2018. The average pension achieved under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2018 was reduced by taxes, taxes and contributions to health insurance amounted to 2,405.96 lipa. The share of that pension in the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia for December 2018 was 38.42% and the average pension without pensions achieved under international social insurance contracts was 2,688,12 kuna or 42.93% of the average net salary for December 2018. The average retirement pension achieved under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2018 was 2,620,27 June or 41,84% of the average net salary for December 2018 and the average retirement pension without pensions achieved under international social insurance contracts was 3,008.95 lipa or 48.05% of the average net salary for December 2018. As can be seen from the above data, the average amount of pensions is adversely affected by the fact that the last 15th faster than the increase in the total number of users, the number of beneficiaries who have achieved their pension through the application of international social insurance contracts. On 31 December 2018, some 173,000 pensioners were registered with a pension achieved by the application of international contracts and their share in the total number of pensioners was 13.9%. The average pension of those users is 819,86 kuna, based on an average of 11 years of pension standing achieved in the Republic of Croatia, and with that pension, users also earn a pension from an foreign insurance provider. In international publications, the average pension is mostly referred to as the average age pension for full-time workers and insurance workers performing an independent professional activity. According to the above criteria, the average retirement pension without pensions achieved under international social insurance contracts was determined on the basis of the 40 and more retirement period on 31 December 2018 at 4.463.59 lipa or 71.28% of the average net salary for December 2018. In addition to mandatory pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute also implements procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation for children. The expenditure on child allowance for 2018 amounted to €1.306 billion, with a total expenditure structure of 3.19%. In 2018, the child allowance was used by an average of 140,284 users for an average of 277,599 children, while the child's allowance was an average of 391,85 kuna per child. The average amount of extra for children increased by 1.7%. During 2018, a total of 481,344 applications for the recognition of pension insurance rights were submitted to the Institute, with 471,666 first-degree applications and 9,678 resolved in the second-degree phase. In 2018, a total of 549,062 pension insurance and child allowance applications were resolved or 88,11%. In the reporting period, 133,490 new applications were submitted during the first and second stages, which is a significant increase in new requirements compared to 2017 when they were 119,135, means an increase of more than 12% and a total of 170,786 pension insurance rights were resolved. Of this number, 136,597 requests or 80%, which is about 12,000 solved cases more than in 2017. In 2018, all of these jobs were carried out with a little more employees than in 2017, so at the end of 2018 2,635 workers were employed, 68 more workers than at the end of 2017, and the number of employees was increased by 2,58%. Since the key role of human potential was recognised at the Institute in 2018 was marked by intensive work on the implementation of the objectives set by the Human Potential Management Strategy for 2015. – 2020, and this through the preparation of reception documentation for operations and projects co-financed by the operational programme of effective human potential 2014. In 2020, and as part of the project of effective human potential, the HZMO administrative capacity-building operation adopted a plan for professional training of workers whose implementation of 85% of the funds was secured from EU funds and on the basis of which education for 174 workers from different areas was conducted during 2018. The project was also continued in 2019 as a continuation of continued work to increase the expertise of workers and to improve the process and procedures for managing human potentials which are one of the important elements of building a successful and effective public institution. Here's a thank you to everyone on stage, for your attention, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165421	Thank you, Mr. Serdar, for this explanation of the report. We have several replicas, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165422	Mr. Director, I'd like to ask you a question, I hope you'll know how to answer it since you were at the time of Minister Aladrović while he was headmaster. So on page 22, you have management of human potential, and among other things you write about management education and other workers from the following areas of leadership and management, change management, organisational culture and teamwork, work monitoring, emotional intelligence management, game theory and competitive analysis, a total of 34 workers. I wonder why it was done, why it was initiated, how much did it cost and what the effects were? I see it was obviously some business consulting company and it's still not part of the cor busniessa office. This education, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165423	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Serdar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165424	Here, well, dear colleague, here's my thanks for asking. As I finally stated in this argument, human potential management is certainly one of the priorities with all other plans and activities of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office as a development for the management and organisation of business activities. As far as the education you're talking about is concerned, all the procurement procedures that take place through HZMO are planned. It's a public document published on the HZMO website. And there you can find all the information related to the estimated value of the purchase. The exact value of the contract, I don't have with me right now, I don't have that information since it wasn't the subject of the report we talked about, but you can definitely as a parliamentary representative and ask us a question directly to HZMO, so I'll give you the correct answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165425	Thank you for your response. Next replica, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165426	Dear Mr. Director, you spoke about the incomes and expenditures of the HZMO public institution, but I must tell both you and the general public that these are the revenues and expenditures of the state budget. That you're just bookkeeping but that these aren't the original incomes of HZMO, and that's where we have to be precise. They are guided by this item but you are, in fact, the technical institution of the budget or accounting service for the calculation and payment of pensions, and it needs to be underlined once more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165427	Thank you. Mr. Serdar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165428	Here's just a brief explanation, so in the financial plan of HZMO which is also a public document and on the sites of HZMO are defined all, according to the terms of the activities financed in accordance with the instructions of the Ministry of Finance. So as far as the source of funding is concerned, there are several sources of funding, most are financed from 21 if we talk about pension payments, pension incomes and 11 General revenue and receipts of the state budget. But you must also be aware that the Institute has a source of 31 in its accounting books and these are the meaning of the own incomes of the institutes which were thus reached in the amount of 3 million 209 thousand and 083 kuna and are compared to 2017 higher by almost 30%. These are the meanings of the institution's own income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165429	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165430	Dear Director, here's how you do business. What we all really care about here are here and here I would like to commend you from 2008 to 2018 is somewhere almost 800 people are less in the pension insurance system, so employees and tenants who work and the jobs you do are very complex and more complex in these conditions. So what you said is that further education is needed and further informatively educate and improve the system. What we're all really concerned about is these ratios of 1:122 to the number of pensioners and insurance companies, and that's what we all have to think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165431	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165432	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed director of HZMO, the esteemed assistant Mr. Bulaja, colleagues and colleagues. So I have to give one explanation for the public, although this report has been discussed in fact on our parent committee and we voted against going to this plenary session, but here it has happened that it has come to a plenary session because of the great interest of the public and of the colleagues themselves who will discuss this topic. So given the number of colleagues present here today in the assembly, it actually speaks of how much some of them are interested in respecting all those who had to be left out of this session because of their needs. However, in any case, the HZMO as a public body established by the Pension Insurance Act, which is also the beginning of the pension system reform process for the exercise of the rights of employees, farmers, craftsmen and other persons from compulsory pension insurance but based on generation solidarity. He is a legal follower of former republican pension and disability insurance funds of workers, independent businessmen and individual farmers, i.e. all former institutions whose history begins in 1922 when the Central Office for Pension Insurance of Workers in Zagreb was established. HZMO in its creation was an extremely important, respectable and financially strong institution, building their own buildings, homes, apartments, retirement homes, then the ratio of pensioners 1:5 workers. However, the fact of the role of HZMO in the Homeland War and its large contribution to the financial part must not be ignored. We'd say there were other times we could hardly compare to the present. HZMO is, after Polish, the oldest institution in Europe and this fact speaks of the existence of this institution. The Institute shall have the capacity of a legal person with the rights and obligations and liability laid down by law and shall have public authority in resolving the rights and obligations of the pension cooperation and as such operate independently. The work of the Institute is public, the public of work is achieved by reporting to the Croatian Parliament, insurance companies and users of pension insurance rights on the work and business of the Institute at least once a year what HZMO does at this session. The previous HZMO report I said was passed by the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership, administrative supervision of the Institute is carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. But I would like to think about how and how and how the Croatian Institute as an executive, the technical body pays out pensions, how HZMO acts under the law, how much pensions are paid abroad, how statistics are determined, how information systems are used, do citizens see any technical shortages. What would happen if the pension insurance system fell, and it could fall because of an electric or otherwise impact? In the last year alone, HZMO issued a million 236 thousand 258 different data, with a solution to payments to current accounts of over one million amounts for pensions, and so on and all without having to make one mistake because they do so industrious and professionally trained people for not so high wages as to gain public impressions. Today, the Institute has the Central Service in Zagreb, five district services, 15 district offices that employ 2635 workers. This year, a little more workers were employed than at the end of 2017, and this is due to the increase in the volume of second-degree work and the payment of children's allowances. It is definitely one serious and responsible job because the pension system is one of three systems with that school and health system, so the pension system is an extremely important system for each country. Now a little bit about numbers. Therefore, the average pension achieved according to the POM, i.e. the Pension Insurance Act, but reduced by taxes, taxes and health insurance amounted to 2,409.96 kuna. The average pension achieved under international social insurance contracts was 2,698,12 kuna. The average retirement pension for December 2018 was 2,620,27 kuna and the average retirement pension without pensions achieved under international contracts was 3,008.95. Why am I saying this? We like to read different statistics or have some other calculations and HZMO methodologies this time was done by calculating international publications, as far as I've seen, where average pensions are mostly listed as average adult retirement for full-time. According to this calculation on 31.12.2018, full-time pensions were 4.463.59. Pensions and pension income expenditures amounted to €39 billion, 246 million. The income generated by the pension contribution is about 56%, and the rest is paid out of the state budget. On 31.12.2018, a million 506 thousand 912 insurance companies were registered in the Institute. It is good to see that age, so 680,607 insurance companies are under 40 years old, 399,472 insurance companies are 40 to 49 years old, 340,501 insurance companies aged 50 to 50 years and 82,332 insurance companies aged 60 and over. It should also be noted that 51,075 users were registered at the Institute for the first time in 2018. The average retirement pension rate is 31 years. It should be pointed out that in 2018, the Institute resolved 549,000 requirements for the exercise of pension insurance rights, with some 88 and 89% respectively or 483,768 of them being resolved in the figure. There were slightly more than 12,000 second-degree procedures in the office involving the application of the EU directive. It should also be said and do not hide the fact that the Institute reacts spotily to citizens' questions and there are no bigger problems, although the number of questions is very large. With the insurance money to finance extras for children, the Institute pays off. The expenditure of allowances for children for 2018 is estimated at 1.3 billion kuna and is lower by some 4.1%) and 56.3 million kuna respectively. This includes an innovative supplement for 3rd and 4th children of 270.3 million kuna and 33.384 users respectively. Unfortunately, a reduction in the number of children as well as the user’s extras for children is visible. It is an opportunity to appeal to the Amendments and Supplements of the Children's Compensation Act, which will soon be in the Croatian Parliament to think very carefully then about the possibility that not only foreigners in the Republic, foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, people under subsidiary protection, asylum seekers and migrants will have the right to a child's allowance while Croats who come from BiH if they work and regularly pay their pension and health benefits, their children if they are not there for at least 3 years do not exercise their right to a child's allowance. And I hope and believe that this year we will change that they will have the right to a child's allowance from 2019. The Institute uses EU projects in order to educate and improve information equipment and should say that it is difficult for the institution itself as regards its buildings and premises as well as branches, because it is actually buildings or under the protection of the Ministry of Culture or the conservative department, so any adaptation, fulfillment or any reconstruction cannot be done as easily as it does, and which is also very high costs, whether it is tailored conditions for employees or persons with disabilities. Finally, each of us can find on the pages of the pension.hr very quickly searching all the data he needs and needs as well as information so that he may be better able to discuss here at the plenary session or in an adequate way informed. Of course, as well as the archives, the statistics from the previous period. Here we wish the Institute success, its employees more income and users actually a secure institution because in 2022 the Institute will celebrate the 100th anniversary of this valuable and significant institution in Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165433	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of HSU and independent representatives and SNAGA, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please. Since we have technical issues with information, we'll measure you manually, so you know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165434	Okay, well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Director, colleagues and colleagues. Just to clarify one thing, at the will of the parliamentary majority of this debate would not be in the Croatian Parliament, and another thing has been the same for us on both sides because the committee decided that it was enough to discuss this on the board although it was 41 this year, last year 40 billion budget money, and the Deputy Director himself said at the session that there was a great lack of information on pension issues and on the work of a public institution, HZMO should be discussed publicly. Last year, we didn't talk about why there was a pension reform, so he avoided talking about it here last year. Therefore, this year, thanks to 15 colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, our club and other clubs, we have this debate with 30 signatures on the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, otherwise this debate would not be the case. And about interest, I don't want to talk about our colleagues like my colleague Babic said. But that's what we really need to talk about. I wish everything was as idyllic as my colleague Babic said, but in my knowledge of this matter and of my years of politics and this system, it's not exactly like that. We are the only EU country in which the pension institution does not have its financial and business autonomy. So he doesn't have his financial and business autonomy, but the funds go into the state budget, payout goes out of the budget and public institutions, regardless of his 97 years of his establishment, he doesn't have business autonomy or financial autonomy. No kuna comes except for personal income worth 0.7 of total pension expenditure does not come as a direct income of HZMO. I was recently in Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, their pension office has both business and financial autonomy. All social transfers according to all groups paid by the state to transfer funds to their pension institution, pensions are paid from pension institutions, contributions are paid to their Slovenian Pension Insurance Office. A country neighbouring from the same legal system is outsmarted pension system with our much older one. So this year records the 97th birthday and let God experience 100, but if we go in this direction, if we go in this direction that this system has neither business nor financial autonomy, I doubt that it will experience 100 years, not because there will be no pensions, it will be paid but how much that public institution that should have trusted brains and knowledge of the pension systems of the whole world, how much it will affect what will happen with pension legislation, it is very, very questionable and from that aspect could come to a simple marginal role of HZMO and its 100 years of business. Instead of having, to draw our experience, our continuity, no, we have a public institution with the greatest possible impact of day-to-day political events. That's not good. Guys, that's not good and it's not going well. We'll have to make some radical moves sooner or later. I know when it was introduced, it was introduced by Racan's administration, so that everyone contributed in 2000, 20001, we all know, continued all the governments so far, for what? For the sake of the insolvency of the pension system, until 2001, pension was committed to any payment by commercial banks for each pension payment. We know everything it's about. At some point, it might have been a solution. Is that a solution right now? You know, the Republic of Slovenia knows exactly the money trail when the state paid its employees a contribution or not. Here you don't know. Why don't you book this accounting book, prove to me by the former ministers how you can pay neatly in one pocket? You can book this as a commitment to state institutions but you cash Flow and a trail of money in one pocket and it's a state budget, you don't have. You don't, dear God. You can take all this accountingly as a request from the State or the obligation of the State. So it's about these things. Secondly, I touched business or professional autonomy. You know, I have to admit, I'm terribly offended by the statistics that are being made public. They were taking it out, but they're offensive to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When someone says that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have an average of 30 years of training and they had so much in 1999 when we went into retirement reform and that they still have 30 years of average training, after 19 years of carrying out a pension reform where the working life has extended for both men and women, something is wrong with you gentlemen dearly. It's no good. I'm warning you, it's no good. And you want me to tell you what's wrong with you? So your statistics are correct for early retirement. 30, almost 37 years of work. Look out, early ones are 37 years old and they're 31 years old. Wait, how's that? And these go back to age 65 and they go early. What's the missing link? Which one is missing? Well, gentlemen, you don't have 170 or 180 000 pensions that slaughter either from Croatia abroad or abroad in Croatia. It's just those 180 grand you're talking about, just those pensions, the so-called pensions. a ratio where one part of the internship is there and the other is somewhere else, and based on this internship, I can't get an independent pension. You have nowhere else registered in Croatia 4.5 billion kunas of pension income coming from abroad, 273 euros of average pensions to more than 180 000 people living in Croatia and receiving pensions from abroad. Why aren't they in the statistics? Why don't you tell me why they're not in the statistics? We've been in the EU since 2013, why aren't they in statistics? The first time we got that data, we got it in 2015, and you're telling me that everything in HZMO is great, wonderful, that it can't work anymore, it can't be better, but we don't have as much data as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who may be looking for certain social transfers from the budget, how many receipts they have from the smallest EU countries. You don't have that information. You don't even have money amounts and you don't have an internship because look, the one who has a 16-year-old internship here in Croatia and the other 24 years in Germany, he's entitled to 2 autonomous pensions and we have 16 in our statistics, where is the other 24, and we claim that he doesn't have an internship this 24 years and that we have the worst average year of our pensioners in the EU? That's not true, people, we're reading the wrong data, the wrong statistics, and we're embarrassing our own people. We're publicly embarrassing him. There are so many, there are 180, about 180, and you don't have them in your international pensions by international regulations, you only have those where you have part of the internships in Croatia are mostly among them, you have 165 cca thousands of pensions that we pay abroad for 2, 5, 7 years of internships and another 20,000 of those that we pay to those who have a majority of pension abroad and here we have 2, 3, also, 5 years of internships. But the ones I've been telling you about, you don't have any statistics and then we're wrong about it, we're misrepresenting the RH pension system to the outside and we're embarrassing our own people. Let's say next, look at the trends. Look at nine months this year without international contracts, what is the average retirement rate this year. I will tell you an average of 34 years and 6 months is the average of those pensioners who retired this year, and that is a big difference and nobody can tell me that Croatian citizens have so little, little retirement training because it is very offensive for Croatian citizens. Furthermore, you are talking about the great efficiency of HZMO I would personally like the current Minister Aladrovic to sit here. And why is that? The next thing you know, you know as well as I do, you're a medical colleague, a college colleague, I used to be a metal man working in shipbuilding, and you know when that tokar tokar is on your 100th, that that piece he made never goes directly into production but there's control, there's control. She was in HZMO until last year, there was previous control. The previous control that senior advisors controlled by those lower advisors who have been doing pension calculations since the next year, since last year there is no such control, but they have all received a higher salary as a foll, everyone will work well because they have a higher salary. So please, people. 30% of the year-on-year solutions have returned to completion since previous controls. It means that, like any business, there are capable and more capable of not saying, not to mention the incompetent because there is no room for them in the business. And we don't have any previous controls at this point. So we're at high risk, that we have 30% in the optics of solutions that don't match the truth. I'm not saying that someone will be suspended, they may be rewarded, but we're at risk of having 30% of the solutions issued by HZMO that don't correspond to the real condition, which can be broken goods, the goods with error. Are we allowed to deal with it, are we allowed to make peace with it, or do we have to talk about it? Is that enough reason to discuss it? Thank you very much. No worries, I can hang up whenever I need to. [[I'm sorry, you have one minute left.]] So, I think that's enough reason to discuss these things here, these things, of course you can talk about property. Whether the Ministry of State Property gave someone else what it gave, whether it was the Institute or not, because the Bureau, the insurance companies of the Institute, over 97 years, were creating what the Bureau had and out of these 97 years, there were constant pluses and the permanent construction of what the Bureau today has, the last 27 is minus is the reverse situation. Therefore, all those who have alienated or sold or given something would have to refute HZMO That means that they don't turn out to be the poor ones who wire funds from the state budget to rebuild the toilets. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165435	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HSS Representatives and Democrats, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165436	You'll make it to the game. Dear Mr. Vice President, I am sorry that today we are talking about such an important topic without parliamentary representatives, but we are also talking about the one responsible for this report, and this is Minister Aladrovic, who was the head of the Pension Insurance Office until now, and this is a picture of his work. I have to say that this picture is not as bright as it would be expected since I'm a retirement agency is an institution that has a long-term history, which is there to work on the well-being of all citizens because in that office we're all in from the moment we get a job until the moment we retire. Before I look back on this report, I would like to say a few things that are seen from this report and they are not as great as they are loved, here is Prime Minister Plenkovic and former ministers, and the current minister likes to boast, because the proportion of pensions in the average salary is still 38% despite the fact that we are boasting that we are increasing our pensions obviously that a significant increase in pensions is needed, and that means that pensions need to be significantly increased, not just harmonized with wage growth and the cost of living. Also, what you can see is a decline in GDP, so the share of pension costs in GDP is 10.2%, and there it is clear that the standard of pensioners is in constant, constant decline. I am glad that the trend has continued since 2012 when we stopped disability pensions and that number is not increasing, so that the dam we set at the moment we set out for the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act is still standing and I hope that neither the Minister Bear who systematically tries to increase the number of disabled defence pensions will be able to break that number and torpedo our own pension system. What's the problem with all this is that the number of employees has been increased by almost 3%, so it doesn't seem to have been reduced, it has been reduced from three thousand and a half to 2,900 in the government where I was a minister but then after that, employment started, at this point the director himself said that pensions are almost, that employees are more employees by almost 3%. But I would agree with that if these employees were employed in pension insurance operations, so in places that are important for people to get a timely solution and to get those solutions in time, to get the pension they deserve. However, here, I have received many e-mails and letters from pensioners, future pensioners who have gone into retirement have not received even temporary solutions, let alone pension solutions. People wait six months for retirement, and that's something that's inadmissible. And that's exactly what you can see on page 32 where the percentage of the solution is within 2 months, so 60 days for pensions in Croatia is 48.49%, as opposed, there should have been at least 70%, that's what we achieved 4 years ago in retirement, so these people are the same. Obviously, the problem is the organisation and departure of quality people. And the same thing is when we talk about extras for children where 45% was solved within 2 months. I note that the child care system is almost completely automated, so I see no reason why this backlog is in the solution. Minister Aladrovic, i.e. the former director, hired 68 new employees and that is 3%, however, these employees are employed in peripheral areas rather than in the implementation of pension insurance. It is also significant that a large part of these people came to the Pension Insurance Office via the Ministry of Pensions, so it is obvious that in some way they wanted to avoid a public tender, so people hired through the Ministry of Pensions and it is some kind of joke that a police department should be created there to serve to control the work but, as we can see, that control was obviously not very effective. Also in the office of these 68 people who are employed we can put together a football team because the former director and the current minister hired his friends who were former football players in very important places. Well, one of them was in charge of the supply sector, and in this supply sector, certain things happened that are not appropriate, for example. having a solution to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement which cancelled a tender in HZMO which was related to the procurement of toners and consumables where the complaining company warned that it was withdrawing money from HZMO through the tender. Instead of this system of controls that was supposed to be there because we hired people from the MUP who should have known that was supposed to have warned before. Not to mention the conflict of interest we have in HZMO because the Assistant Director was punished by the Commission for deciding on a conflict of interest because he went to an information conference and was paid by Huit-Packard to participate in the conference but see the devil at the same time Huit-Packard delivered the information system to HZMO worth more than 3 million kuna. And the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, here I will quote what it stated, is the official of receiving an unauthorized gift in terms of quotations worth more than 500 kuna, which was about 3.5 thousand kuna, from the organisers in the circumstances of the established need of the Pension Insurance Office to prepare the procedure for making documents in public procurement, services, analysis, design, development of the HZMO information system, so the contest in which Hewit-Packard defeated the infringement of Articles 11(1) and 3. The law on preventing conflicts of interest since it is a situation that can lead to it in relation to its dependence on the organiser. It's something that puts an end to the pension insurance office itself because there should be a very clear clean-hand policy. The office also established a Office for the Management and Development of Human Resources which had previously not existed in the Institute. What I'm wondering, which is why this office should be because when we talk about hiring people in the office, then it's quite different than hiring a multinational company or a company that's on the market. Clearly, the establishment of the office was merely to arrest a certain person who was brought to the post by the former director, or minister. He also brought his friend from the Pleternica, who is now the editor of HZMO's website. It's all saying that the HDZ Pension Insurance Office has once again found a place to prey on people and I'm sure these 68 who came to jobs that they shouldn't have come to are jobs that are fictitious, which won't lead to the Institute doing better than it did. In light of this, it is also said that only 48% of pension and settlement requirements were resolved in the first 2 months, noting that there are cases that people in Croatia, we do not talk to foreign insurance companies, are waiting for 6 months. a solution to a temporary pension solution, let alone a final pension solution, which suggests that only the management of the office was obviously not good. Obviously, the Institute also participated in Minister Pavic's campaign, unfortunately the reports of the Institute do not show how much money was spent because on the page. 48 public service institutions and public relations, says very clearly that the funds spent on news campaigns in 2018 according to specific needs, and in particular in December 2018 for the implementation of the pension reform, there is no connection to any pension reform, noting that the law was passed and was in force accordingly, you can not go with any further initiatives in 2018 but go clearly because it was a protureferendum campaign and what was expected, it would be good to see how much funding was spent from this report for a political campaign that had no effect in noting the pensioners themselves. As I've already asked, I didn't get an answer. 22 says that management is organized and possibly a costlyly paid course for leadership, so we have there and these theories of games and leadership and management, management through emotional intelligence, competitive analysis, noting that Minister Pavić, who was in charge of former director Aladrovic, has declared to the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest and that when it was discovered that his company in which he has a certain influence, has arranged certain transactions with HZZ, I wonder if it's the same company or if it's another company, I'll probably get an answer to which it is concerned. And what has been marked by both 2018 and 2019 is a matter of preferential pensions. The issue of pensions under privileged regulations where it is very clear, in 2013, we will show that j is possible to separate them, that it is something that is important, that citizens expect from us, that the pension system is cleared from everything that is not part of the pension system and pensions by special regulations are not part of the pension system, then we have shown that it is possible, the HDZ is clear, by coming to power, given that it has promised the defenders to do so to buy their votes, to end it and return it, however, and the referendum initiative, 750,000 signatures has made it very clear that citizens want things in the pension system to be resolved, to call those pensions to be removed from the system because they are not classical pensions, but they are financial compensations where the policy and in the Assembly we have said that for these and those categories of citizens, no one has to doubt that they need to do so, not even in a moment to reduce their pensions, but to make it more money and money. Therefore Thank you very much. [[Intruding Brkić: Dear colleague, information only, you have one minute left.]] And so I end up, therefore, privileged pensions are not sacred cows of the pension system, they need to be removed, removed from the pension system everything that is not a pension system, and then space will be opened so that we can increase our pensions by 10 and 20% because there's room in the budget. If we have room for privileged defence pensions, that at the age of 25 after the war we have 1907 new defenders and that we don't have a lot of HVO defenders is obviously Minister Medved put too many criteria so you can't know that colleagues from HZMO, that since they have too many criteria, that people from Bosnia can't get all the papers, there's no such pensions, but I don't believe there won't be any. Therefore, clearing up the system, the transparency of the system is something that citizens expect from all of us and I am quite sure that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165437	I thank my colleague Mrsic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165438	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Vice President. Here at the beginning of this debate Report on the work and business of HZMO, once again I would like to express our protest which this debate wanted to hide from the public what is partly HDZ and has succeeded since it has always been done in standard form, and this is that these discussions are usually before the end of the working day or in the time when the least people can hear and participate in some way and watching it on television in them. The Pension Insurance Office is an institution that is clearly here with a very large number of employees, and Mrsic said it was 68 more people but in one year 2018 over 230 people were employed, which means about 10% of employees are renovating each year. Unfortunately, it has become one of the institutions that HDZ has widely used to entangle its members, members, sympathisers etc.. And that's what's not good. So when you see this institution's report, you see that what it primarily needs to deal with is taking up only 10 pages of text and then all of these other technical things, someone here mentioned websites, PRs, public relations and certain other things take up more than 50 or 60% of the report. And what is important is pensions and what are those in Croatia, unfortunately we do not have enough well-presented or derived things that usually rule as their own plus. And when you see the data being pushed into the first plan, which is that on the basis of a 40-and-more-year retirement period of nearly 4.5 thousand kunas and 71% of the average net salary, you would think that we are in a country of wonders, that they are super pensions. And on that side, you just need to read a little further and see that only 16% of the insurance company is. So 16% of the insurance company has a pension like that. The remaining 80 or 85% of insurance companies have disastrously low pensions and these pensions in the Republic are insufficient for a person to live with dignity and let alone more. The colleagues have already said that the proportion of pensions in average salary fell below 40% and it falls year after year because wages grow faster than pensions grow. And they're a bit funny, and there's a declaration of coordination, namely that pensions grew when our pensioners know that they usually do, that growth measures into 10 or 20 kunas, and they simply don't have anything, and they'd be very happy to get that money back directly to Prime Minister Plenkovic and ruling how little or no improvement of their standard. So we have to admit our system, our pensions are catastrophic because of this being avoided, so our fellow citizens' pensions are catastrophic and therefore essentially avoid the open-air debate, so the second year in a row is already tried to avoid it. That's why 750 thousand people signed the referendum and wondered the prime minister who was all to blame, so day after day we're just listening that something absurd, illogical, is wrong, that everyone is against him, so starting with the referendum of this, and now we end up on the edification strike, they all conspired against poor Mr. Plenkovic. I feel sorry for a man. So really when you hear how he pays every day, here we are today listening to the government of the Republic of Croatia absurdly say man why they rebel. Well, they object because your government doesn't do business, people don't have salaries that they've earned fairly, and they can't live out of it. Families leave Croatia every year for over a hundred thousand people, families are separated, Croatian demographic land. Now that they've been thinking about introducing a new holiday, here I suggest we declare the holiday and the day of St. Peter's Day. Patrick, since over 20,000 people have moved to Ireland that day people can be with their families. It means that it is a holiday in Ireland, so let it be in Croatia that people can gather together. So there is so much paradox in Croatia, and the answer is very simple, which is why we hear from day to day that Prime Minister Plenkovic complains, complains, pays that everyone is against him, but that's when you're not doing your job for 3 years and there are no concrete results. And the pension system is one of the most explicit examples of how no work should be done, how public money is spent on incarceration, how public money is spent to fool citizens. If you remember in that campaign where we were intimidated by Minister Pavić that the change of system would cost 45 billion additional costs to the Republic of Croatia and its citizens at the end of the day nothing. People accepted it as if nothing had happened, as if what Minister Pavić was saying had nothing to do with the truth and now they act like they've been saying since day one, basically now what they've released to the unions, which is that it doesn't extend to 67 years. So you can see from that side that there's no concept at all, no knowledge, no essentially justice, and that's why people feel unsatisfactory. Not because someone purposely intended against Prime Minister Plenkovic, but because people feel a huge injustice. On that side another injustice is amazing and that is what we are reading these days that, according to the new law adopted by the HDZ, an additional 3,000 new defenders, so after the war ended it was 15 years... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me for 25 years, yes, I'm a little mathematically wrong at first, so it's been 25 years and now in this situation there are three thousand new defenders who are likely to enter the pension insurance system and get defensive pensions and that's basically what HDZ is telling the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We buy our voters, they will have great conditions, they will do everything to satisfy them and the rest of you who try and work for your salaries every day or try to achieve retirement insurance go to Ireland freely because there you will have more opportunity to achieve a fair pension than it is in the Republic of Croatia. And it's a very simple message from HDZ. This paradox, I don't know who can explain it, I don't know if Mr. Djakic can explain who runs an association that is parapolitical and on this side assists HDZ and de facto is a pro-HDZ adjuvant and should essentially be removed from HDZ because of what neither the Homeland War nor Croatia is exclusively the right of HDZ and on that side of that injustice people are tormenting. I'm convinced that at any opportunity, and the first one is already next, and that's just over two months from now. People will say what they think about HDZ in the presidential elections and the candidate who is supported by HDZ, who is normal, who did not raise her voice and did not go to sign a referendum initiative signed by 750,000 of our fellow citizens. All those who signed the initiative must know that the President of the Republic of Croatia does not support them in this, that it supports Prime Minister Plenkovic and his research and conspiracy theories that they are all against them and very quickly, means very quickly and that is 2.5 months away. People have a chance to say what they think about this HDZ policy because it will be a referendum, just as the referendum will be for whatever. The day of the parliamentary elections. Who's pleased? Is that what he thinks the average pension of just over £2,000 is enough? Who thinks there's a new 3,000 defenders who's gonna get high pensions okay? Is it normal for 150,000 people to leave Croatia for the last three years? So let him vote for HDZ, I don't mind, so these people will deny themselves but people have to ask themselves, so if that's how our country continues to act, if that's how the country... What? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Are you running a session? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I really don't know, I think the fact is that there's a little bit of you here, unfortunately not just from HDZ, but without a view of it, I have to say what most citizens think and it's 75% of people are unhappy with the pension reform offered by HDZ and the way the government runs Croatia and when we talk about pensioners and them that are millions and 200, so these are all topics Mr. Babić, these are all topics, all of what I've said is covered by these miserable and small pensions that you pay to our pensioners. [[Intruder Brkić, not included.]] Every day's hard life, the waste of money by HDZ, the eviction of their children and grandchildren outside Croatia, all of it can stand in these 80 pages, except it's not seen, it's emotions, it's what people feel every day but I feel it and we see it in this report, it may not be written in sentences, but behind this report there are millions and 200,000 people and all of their problems, fates, unworthy life and torments that go on every day for which you are responsible because you don't improve them or the conditions and ask them what they think of these increases in pensions of 10, 20 kn, what do you think of driving their children and grandchildren out of Croatia? These are all topics that certainly include a report on pension insurance regardless of what is not written because it is closely related to one another. And once again I say, very soon we will have this referendum, I am convinced that no pensioner except for those whom HDZ has provided for fine pensions will vote neither for the president nor for the HDZ because it simply makes no sense. On the other hand, we cannot support this technical report which should essentially show that the pension system is in the middle of what kind of takeoff, and we are all aware that it is not and that we are in a big problem and that it will not be any better quickly unless this concept inauguration by HDZ and Minister Medved that after 25 years of ending the war suddenly we have 3000 new defenders who will get the benefits that I am not telling everyone who is here... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Some have worked, but believe me, anyone who gets a chance 25 years after the war gets a certain benefit, whether it's a release of a customs duty for a car or something he'll take advantage of. Other citizens are not in that position, it is typical buying voters at the expense of all others living in the Republic of Croatia. You can't explain that kind of illogicality to anyone and on this side people feel unfair and it is certain that they will fight such injustice, unfortunately, don't be surprised when 750 000 people sign, so there are so many emotions and injustices in these signatures and the referendum is collected that you don't have to wonder at all, says Prime Minister Plenkovic, why not collected in 2014, because people understood that we're getting out of the crisis, that we're doing the maximum of what we can and now when they see money being thrown away, how some live great, when there are 30 billion kunas more walks than in 2015 in 2019, when that money is spent on new benefits, 3,000 people at 25 years after the war, when that money is spent on the employment of new people in HZMO, when that money is spent on expensive planes and at the same time cannot be given to teachers and teachers, so naturally, I'm surprised that there wasn't a million signature. The next referendum, however it may be, will be interpreted again against such a policy and will be Thank you very much. [[Intruder Brkić: A colleague of Maras, only information that you have another minute.]] I mean, when a man turns like that and comes out of him, he can talk for hours about things that unfortunately happen in the Republic of Croatia and he can relate to citizens and pensioners who have no ability to realize what they've worked for all their lives and when they see the de fact that the system is collapsing and that Mr. Plenkovic acts as if he's from another world, as if Alice is in a country of wonders that just doesn't believe why everyone says it's not good or that the emperor who has new rujo and that we should all say that everything is actually beautiful in Croatia and that there's nothing we see and on that side of that report and we can't support this report, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165439	I thank my colleague Maras. We're moving on to individual debates. Comrade Stevo Culej is not present, colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens who follow us, unfortunately this point that is extremely important for all of our pensioners, you see it is designed to be before the Croatian-Hungarian game today because it is known, it is not transmitted because these are painful facts for all of our pensioners that we are bringing out here from the opposition and I am changing Croatia in front of the Party not to engage here in ideological topics, but I will always speak straight to the arguments. This report says everything we already know, but it doesn't say by saying that such a pension system is unsustainable, it doesn't say anything. Here they already said 60% in the pension system for pension payments of about $39 billion annually, collected only from salary contributions, as much as 40% must be financed from the state budget, from taxes, cuts and borrowings primarily from the state on the domestic and foreign market. Be careful, 40% means the annual pension payment needs of the state must be in debt. If there is an area or illustration of the collapse of this country, the destruction of its economy and the collapse of society, it is a pension system. In the picture of the pension system you can see missed and criminal conversion and privatisation, clienttelism, meaning false defenders, fake disabled people and incentives, etc., it is seen that from year to year the standard of living of pensioners falls. So as far as we know, let's get concrete data. You see, respected citizens, above all, I address you dear pensioners in 1990. When an average pension was established, according to the average salary, I repeat 75%, today the average pension per average salary is 38%, so there has been a double decline. Well, it's clear that all the troubles, from the financing of the war, but we let go of the war, so all these failures of political structures in the economy and politics, above all in the economy and in the pension system, have been transferred to the shoulders and spine of the pensioners, so all of you who earned your pensions and now means about a million and 200 pensioners, millions of people get about a church because the average pension is around £2.500,00 and those increases of 20 kunas when the government boasts that it's come to repair the pension standard, it's really a black humor or sarcasm. It is not my intention here to describe what is known to all of you dear citizens of the pensioners. This problem can be seriously solved, we have only one dilemma, which is a dilemma, will you dear pensioners continue to support in the next elections those who systematically have been poor for 20 years or will you give new people an opportunity, professional, honest and who will know how to make the right moves to finally get an increase in pensions. Let's go now, so I'm not just a politician, I'm a university professor from the economy, and I'm going to tell you now that we can significantly change this whole situation to raise the salaries to the workers, but also to your pensioners. The first thing to do is to clearly separate regular pensions from privileged and all other pensions, then we'll have the right picture of things because everything here has been put in place, and it's unbearable and reviewing privileged pensions. Secondly, transforming the second pension column, you see no one talking about it today. Why does the second pension column need to be transformed? Well, gentlemen, have you heard somewhere that there is, we have three pillars today, have you heard anywhere in the world that there are two mandatory retirement pillars, that's the first and the second, and it's only the third volunteer, why two mandatory retirement pillars? The second pension pillar is a destabilizer key from year to year, a key destabiliser of the pension system because it interests the state or not the state, but all of us who work, as well as pensioners. In the second pension column, only pension fund management companies established by all foreign banks, means 4 companies owned by foreign banks. We, to be very clear and open, through the second pension pillar is the privatisation of the pension system in the Republic of Croatia, do you understand? Dear pensioners, this is what you must hear, these are the real stories you could never hear in HS until we came, we are the real opposition, the new people of hope, and above all the professions and knowledge we possess. Which means further transformation of the second pension pillar, what would be done here? I'll wash this out in a minute, two, experience from Hungary three months ago, where I visited their Finance Committee in their parliament. They are, to stress the Republic of Croatia is the only country in Europe that has a second pension pillar, all of them have left it, but not everyone, and never did some want to introduce like Slovenia or, say, Serbia. Now you see, which means, what you should do, you should give the citizens 60 days as Hungary to decide whether to transfer their money from the second pillar to the first pillar because they have both in the first and second pillar accounts, if they want to transfer to the mandatory column first they will transfer, and those who want to transfer to the voluntary column that would be, so we would only have two pillars, first and compulsory and second voluntary. One who doesn't apply within 60 days that he doesn't want to, means he doesn't do anything, automatically transfers his money to the first column, and all the others will be transferred to the second volunteer. Voluntary pension societies and funds need to liberalise investment policy more than now, but their resources would not be guaranteed by the state. Therefore, you can make a great profit, and you can also ruin it. Only the state would vouch for the first pension stake and put in order there. What would be the consequences? Public debt would be reduced by about 90 billion kuna, so our public debt would not be 78% but below 55% of GDP. It would fix our credit rating, reduce interest on foreign debt and just breathe. What else can we accomplish? In this context, I stress that Croatia is the only country that still has a second pension column and it is unsustainable. You have simply a clienteletically connected media, certain people from the academic community, and even here in the Parliament you see some of them have left Parliament while I'm saying this, and they were the main protagonists of it. Now that we see that the system is falling apart, there are no dear pensioners. It's a story about the pension system, we have to tell the truth in the eyes once, there's been a lot of deception and lies to make that system. '99 Peace Reform. The year has been missed, it has completely shaken the foundations of a pension system that is not sustainable and is really threatening and calling into question payments. Watch out, so you don't have to break down the pension system, so you see how it works constantly reduces the average pension to the average salary and theoretically you can get the pensioners to get 100 kuna per month, you'll say here's the pension system functioning. So let me cut this short because I could talk a lot about this whole story. You see, the people who run this country, and the institutions, those respected citizens, they don't know, not only don't know, they know these problems, but they don't care, it's not in their interest to solve this. The second pension column there has about 100 billion kuna, which is after banks the most powerful part of the financial system in Croatia. In two, three years, pension fund management companies in the second pillar will have assets as the amount of State budget revenues. That's what we need to talk about, but dear citizens can't. You see, there's talk about it in front of the game, there's no transmission to HRT 4 because these topics are none of the ruling ones, and even before... So we have a very simple dilemma, if you want to continue to receive the church and that society is failing and that you are at risk, vote for those who have led you so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165441	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165442	Thank you, Vice President. Respected Director and Assistant Deputy Director of Retirement. I welcome you all. I would like to say a few words about this report that was before us which was not planned to be at this debate because we discussed it on the Committee on Labour and Pension System, but here thanks to some MPs came here and I understand completely Mr. Hrelj. He was seriously discussing the report on the pension system and the state of the pension system unlike some MPs who used this for one promotion and assault... and the Croatian Government, which is not surprising because we know who the pension system is and the person who runs the pension system, and he doesn't even know about the pension system at all, is what is unfortunately saddening about this assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I think we can always say is that the pension system is a very serious and quality well-organised system that has almost 100 years of its work experience, in some way leading to the care of millions and 230 thousand pensioners in the Republic of all categories. I must admit that I do not see what the problem is that the pensions of people who have worked and those who have special regulations are separated, here in the report it is clearly separated, highlighted, and it is known exactly which of those 17 categories are how many there are, and I think it is completely irrelevant that this must be particularly separate as some colleagues ask. What I think is the biggest problem exactly is that of our pension system, the Republic of Croatia, is the number of users, or people who work. If that number were somewhere around 2 million, 2.5 million then it would certainly be different ratios, then surely pensions would be much higher. What is very important in the report is those trends that are important for us to follow back a few years and in the following year, and this is evident and it is seen that several years ago the number of insurance companies is increasing, that this ratio from 1:1,17 has increased already to 1:1,22 and what is the desire of all, the whole government is certain to increase this trend, or to be the largest number of insurance workers and workers, so that then surely pensions will be more visible. Of course, an increase in salary also creates certain needs for increasing pensions or harmonising pensions. And here's what's been done for the last two years so somewhere around 6% of the increase in pension. Surely that's not enough and that our pensioners can't be satisfied with it, but I think that always somehow when you're talking about some kind of average because there's a lot of different categories here so maybe it's unfair to put one such average, but somehow I think it would be logical to watch it if it's... a full retirement internship for 40 years to see what the pensions of those who have worked all 40 years and then we'll get this data that's not so bad, and that's 4.463 kuna and 71.2% of the average salary, respectively. That's when someone's got a full internship. It would make sense that everyone should have a full internship and the goal is to work all the way to being 40 years old. I understand that there have been various reasons of war events, of the destruction of companies, of bankruptcy and everything, and that in some difficult times it was not easy to find a job and that is why some have 15, 20 of course various diseases, disability and others, so, therefore, it is hard to talk about these ratios because, according to this, I don't know 38% of the average salary in the Republic or I don't know 2,400,00 kn pensions, of course, then it gets the impression that it's really social aid, that it's not really the right state of things, but I think it's much more important to get this data on how much pension it would be if we had a full period of 40 years. And that's what these reports show clearly and transparently. A little, I say, there is now Mr. Maras, who almost didn't talk about this report here, but talked about everything else and attacked and the Croatian government, including the president, and he never actually said that two mandates and the SDP were in power and he could increase those pensions that he had serious intentions, that it was a serious, serious desire by the SDP to increase pensions and to solve this problem if he thought he had it. What is also important is that here, the Croatian Government is actually the Ministry of Pensions, together with the Pensions Institute, made one quality comprehensive pension reform during last year, and here it is now in force at this moment where in fact what is most important, which we discussed through committees to solve those injustices that existed and which would actually be now, especially with those people who were born in 1962. They retire, they happen to have a 27% lower pension, it's settled, it's settled, a lot has been solved, this, this pension reform. I have to admit, I asked the minister myself why this downsizing was going on until I was 67. From 2038 to 2033, I don't think it should have been touched, but here's what happened and that's why we had this referendum here which, but of course it's actually an opportunity if our citizens don't want to work much until 67. To get it back to 65, and whoever wants it will have a chance to work until 68. Here's why, I think this is an extremely good quality report, which of course needs to be accepted, and it's actually simply a guideline for next year to make this system even more quality and much better with much larger pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165443	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Ivan Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165444	Dear Vice President, Honorable Minister, Honorable Representative Karlic, you mentioned well that about a million and a few thousand users were registered at the pension system office at the moment, and 1500 was a million and 500 were insurance workers. But the average retirement rate for the user today is 31, and you think this system is sustainable, and how is it sustainable? Tell me if the possibility of working out of 4 pensioners solving the pension system or repairing the social status of pensioners or whether it should reduce the number of pensioners that those who want to work as long as they can, and all those who want to retire early to retire and to be retired without being able to They've been working for four [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165445	A colleague Karlic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165446	Well, thank you, I think that this fellow Kirin has already kind of answered through the question, and I think it's very good that those who can work until 68. to work, I think it's very important first because it's going to have bigger pensions, but I think it's much more important for a person in his life to feel important, feel needed, that she still has a reason to be there, that someone should do something, that she should do some work, that it will raise the quality of life of our fellow citizens and, of course, provide them with a bigger pension at the end, which is certainly important. I think it's also good that you can work up to four hours for those people who have retired, who have a wish for it and, of course, have a need. We see now that the situation is such that a growing number of needs are actually for workers, maybe it's much more quality and better to work for our pensioners those who have left and who still can than to import workers from other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165447	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165448	Dear fellow, you mentioned among other things and privileged pensions, and this is very much said, so here's if, that they looked at the last post that was made from 31 August 2019, then they are grouped into 17 categories and that it is a total of 177429 persons, which is actually 14% of the total retired persons, and in those 17 categories it is nice to see what is the average rate, what are the pensions, who are in those privileged ones, that in fact demystified all of what someone is saying is, that here are members or Croatian defenders from the Homeland War have 71000 or those who are recognised under the general rules another 40,000 So. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165449	Please respond, colleague Karlić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165450	Here, thank you. My colleagues just like that, I think it is quite clear, transparently seen from every data of all kinds, all forms are actually all 17 categories of privileged pensions, and I don't see where the problem is, where the reason for this is a particular putting into some category outside of the pension system when it is clearly and transparently separated and marked here and I don't think there's any need for mystification and making any problems and causing damage to the Croatian state, Croatian government or categories of those insurance companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165451	Thank you for your response. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165452	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed, respected leadership of HZMO, I will repeat that the current situation in the public institution of HZMO is clearly saying that he does not have business autonomy and financial autonomy. If he had his own financial autonomy, then surely somewhere around EUR 2 billion would have been transferred to the account of the institution for the payment of pensions from the budget because there is so much about social transfers or transfers under the law, based on other laws, rather than on the basis of the fact that the work experience or the insurance standing is covered by contributions, contributions throughout the year. This would mean the financial autonomy of institutions such as the neighbouring republic and, like all EU countries, none of them destroyed their pension, pension institution. We are. And speaking of business autonomy dear to my colleagues and colleagues, then the role of HZMO during last year would be quite different. Not only during the pension reform, but also when other laws are passed. Let me remind you of something. We had the Law on Student Affairs here last year, I think it would be a proposal from the HNS coalition partner, and now if we have a 97-year-old older gentleman who exists in HZMO there has accumulated so much knowledge and experience of international relations, international pension rights that they should react in such a case. How should we react? We should publicly say that these people who are going to work through a November service will have no pension, will have no pension because they work overtime, so they get paid, they get money, their health insurance pays the state, the internship doesn't work, the insurance internship doesn't go people, they work 10 years through a 0-student service. And what about them? What will be pensions when they retire in 30 years? What will they have? Is that the role of HZMO public security or not? That's what it's supposed to be. And they should decidently say, gentlemen, let the state pay health insurance, freed all students of tax pay, but whoever hires them must pay 15 plus 5% of pension contributions because these are revenues in this case budget, but these are the original incomes then HZMO. We allow ourselves a luxury, that individual shopping houses in their home countries say that in Croatia it is worth the work because when we hire students we pay only a commission to the student service, no health care, no other contributions. Is this the profit of multinational companies in the preliminary work of Croatian citizens? Gentlemen and there is the role of HZMO that by its expertise, by its international experience, the knowledge of international pension law points to the future problem, not the present, since it was not founded in 1922 to survive 5, 10 or 15 years but to accompany many generations, many generations in retirement. Would the revenues then be higher, is the role of the HZMO to deal in a different way with the arrangement of family pensions? So, HZMO through the former director that he got very involved through the National Council for Retired and Older Persons that he would settle his national pension. First there were 55,000, then 85,000 users, and then 100,000 users, according to the Institute of Public Finance, there are some 27,000 users estimated to be an additional burden for the budget of 300 million, and that is not true because most of them are already receiving social assistance. So someone caught on the hook that they would have a large number of national pensioners and maybe 100,000 voters. What happened? Well, he can't have HZMO with his accumulated knowledge and experience falling for a hook like that. He can't. At the same time, he wants to give to those who are not covered or may be 5 years old, 10 years of internship but who have not obtained the right to retire, because in order to achieve the right to retire, you must have at least 15 years of internship in 65 years of life. So you want to give them, and you have on the other hand a husband and wife who have been paying contributions together for 80 years, when one of them dies, the other one gets either his pension or 70% of the one who died, and that's all right if one pension is small and one is big. What if it's two small ones? The one who goes that way falls into the poverty zone. If they'd found it right now, I'm sorry, it's quiet, but it's on a vibration. So this one, which, therefore, is the spouse who survived the fall with one pension in the poverty zone, which is covered by an 80-year retirement internship. Our Slovenian neighbors introduced it. They have the option of a choice or their pension plus 15% of the deceased partner's pension or 70% if this is significantly greater than the deceased partner, with them having an additional catch of 22, they say they have set the poverty line. So even the lowest pension can't be less than 90% of the poverty line right now. HZMO and the pension system play a big role in these things where it is covered by contributions to combating the poverty of citizens, not allowing the sinking of citizens in the poverty zone, and we do not yet have a model of the calculation of the poverty limit in the Republic of Croatia, is that it cannot be according to EUROSTAT. Each country must calculate, make its own model of the poverty line, and as a social state must protect its citizens to the poverty line and keep them above the poverty line and achieve it at some point. He can't right away, he can't right now, but it's a plan to go over that poverty line in five years or seven years and not a single citizen is under it. And you don't have to say, we'll do it when the economy lets us do it, it's not true. According to European directives, we are obliged to do this, to fight poverty in our own country. The peace system has a very large role to play in this. Last year there was half a pension here accompanied by Minister Pavic, so why didn't you tell him there was no reason why the family pensioners, where they were going at 50 years of retirement that had working potential, couldn't work, why didn't you tell him? And at the same time you said this, the explanation can't work because family users are children. And children, of course, are students children can work as family pensioners. So we have opposing attitudes, we have illogicalness, and it passes us by, it passes us by. Look, if I hadn't talked about it here at this pay phone right now, I wouldn't have told you anything, I would have kept quiet because I missed something, but that's what I told you. It would not have happened if that user of the lowest pension needed to work and found a job at the time when the employer hired him received a 500 kuna solution on 500 kuna less pension. Why, why? So what he's making takes life, the user is protected categories of the lowest pension. So let's see how our citizens live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165453	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165454	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. When it comes to HZZO that it can survive on its own as an institution to get out, I don't say health leave the treasury then it's said it can, it has the capacity, but it didn't happen. Now I don't understand when you say HZMO can pay out pensions from its contributions when we know that around 17 billion kunas are needed from the state budget. I can't understand that, that logic. The second thing, all countries are thinking, talking and improving their pension systems. So today's Germany with what it does and with the import of labour works because of the fear and collapse of the pension system, they are aware of it, I suppose, of the Slovenians. But don't forget the historical aspect of what happened to us 20, 25 or 30 years ago because of the Homeland War, the arming of the Republic of Croatia, what we lost then and what is the result of today's pension system situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165455	Thank you. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165456	Dear colleague Babic. I would recommend that everyone in HZMO visit small systems to see how they work, for the start of their professional career, and that should have been done by current Minister Aladrovic and all others who are getting into this job, to see the experiences of others because it is the fastest learning, to understand each other. So, Slovenians have one pensioner at 1.54, something better than us, they have a billion 300 million euros in transfers because they lack what they planned and what they pay through the pension system. What's the problem, what's the problem with the money being left in the pension register? No problem. Italians, everything the state owes for any transfer goes to their retirement home. Check it out. You don't have to trust me. You're looking for one district across all EU countries, for what? For transparency, that no one can give to anyone unless covered by contributions or from other sources. So very simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165457	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165458	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrelja. In this report of the Institute in that section dealing with real estate, there is not a single word that the Institute de facto is the official owner of the retirement home and that when we proposed together for the law that the homes of the pensioners go over to whoever is taking care of them now, then the local self-government is then the directorate, and the current minister, together with Minister Pavic, said that this law is not valid and that this will be settled through the Law on State Property, through the Ministry, etc. We can see that none of this has been resolved, that the retirement homes are formally owned by the Bureau, and the institution is neither the owner nor interested in investing anything. I see he's investing in his own facilities, and clearly he's not investing in retirement homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165459	Thank you. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165460	Dear fellow Mrsic. I am sorry that the law was not then adopted although there is a right to precedent and some local environments were given as a gift to be given in the possession of retirement homes. So I really don't understand why in the Croatian government they're not in the mood for all corners of Croatia, they follow the same rules for all counties, not that someone has to beg to get a gift. I mean, who he gives to, to be understood. The homes of the pensioners were built or built by the contributions of the workers in the day because they were five times more than the pensioners because then the Croatian Pensions Institute or what was called the Pension Fund or the Health Fund and the Social Fund all together, they were swimming in money because there were five workers, a lot of inflows, and a little drain. So it's not It's not the government's property. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165461	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja. Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected representatives of HZMO, a respected 6 colleagues and colleagues, this is in fact the biggest tragedy of how many of us are here. Unfortunately, however, the same situation was also when the other political option was discussed at this time and no one can say that it was a different situation and it clearly shows that unfortunately we in this assembly are very often discussing some issues by wanting to collect certain political points, so I am actually sorry that we are not discussing this report in a way that this report actually is. Because when you look at HZMO basically implements and records what, those laws that we make in this high house. They can't do anything besides that, and then all of that, the crown of all that is the budget when we approve so much and so much funding, everything else is defined by the laws. Perhaps today, if we had used this data served by our colleagues from HZMO, we would have discussed some topics differently, then I would have understood it in a well-intentioned way like this, I simply can't understand that we keep running away from what is actually the biggest problem of the pension system in the Republic. When you take that you have a million and 236 thousand pensioners, and you have a million and 506,000 of those who pay into that pension fund no matter where he is, in a treasure house or something, it's totally irrelevant. It's totally irrelevant because look to HZMO that a separate account is in charge of paying off pensions he can't do it without the guarantee of the state. So, I think it's just pussules that just don't exist, because we're adopting a budget, we're defining funds, and I'm going to talk about these funds later, and I'm going to talk about it in the follow-up to my debate, because these reports should basically be used to us to maybe get a change of methodology and something, to get us maybe some more information so we can get a better look at the RH pension system. Because, unfortunately, we like to hit on each other a lot, it's not good because of those who take that pension, because of these or those. It's just not good. Why? Well, because we are the ones who passed the laws, whether we were against or for, but the Croatian Parliament brought them in and gave someone some rights. However, except for those who have gone into full retirement, all others have received some right under some law that has brought this high home. And it is very easy to calculate in the financial plan, the budget it has made available with how much for this supplement or that right that someone has achieved should be provided with tax revenue money because it is simply not financed from the funds that are paid so-called. Generational solidarity. Why am I saying that? So I'm talking because I just can't accept this story about defense pensions for a few reasons. First, these people worked before they retired, paid into the pension fund, caused by unfortunate circumstances, many were wounded, disappeared, killed and the foundation of certain rights of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defencers, they or their families were entitled to some kind of pension. We also have defenders who thank the dear God alive, they went according to this normal to say the law in retirement, but by virtue of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders, they are entitled to this pension. Now look, we can't say that privileged pensions are 120 and so many thousand defenders, it's simply unfair, incorrect to these people, it's unfair, it's incorrect. Only part of their pension is not privileged but it is something that we gave them based on the right, based on the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and in such a way we have to speak, because look if someone is 25, 30 years old the internship went into retirement he has been paying 25 or 30 years paying that pension internship and he has provided someone else with a pension. And if that's how we're going to discuss it, then no one's going to feel hit or killed in any way. Look, it is not pleasant to listen to discussions with 100% people with disabilities, 80% of people with disabilities, families of missing and dead Croatian defenders that they receive preferential pensions, do not receive those privileged pensions. Being 80% or 100% disabled, being without a parent, being without any of this or without a husband or without a child is no privileged thing, and it just doesn't have to look at it that way. We've given someone the right, he's earned it by virtue of something. Why am I saying that? Because I spoke exactly the same way in this assembly when my colleague Mrsic was a minister, in exactly the same way, and Mr Vukovic was sitting here. So, not wanting to collect any political points but simply saying that we gave someone some kind of right, not a privilege, but look very interesting that out of 11 and some thousands of Partisan pensions in this country no one speaks. From the second, 11 and another 1 grand is NOB's pension, no one's talking, no one's talking, but look and they've acquired the right kind of and look and in the last state are people who were on the Russian front and other people with disabilities, etc. getting a pension. So, every country takes care of its war veterans, and let's not just let these people be a constituency monk, is it simply not good, it's not good because of a million and one thing, but I say maybe sometimes some people make it awkwardly, but that's the case. When we talk about financial independence, so if I'm not mistaken, financial independence is when you have money to pay off without any problems what you have based on a specific financial plan you have plotted to do. The second thing HZMO was never a bill promoter, the legislator of this pension system is a ministry, but if we were to read this information that HZMO employees served us then we wouldn't have the kind of debates that we had about who hired whom, I would, if incorrectly, be able to count both the assistants and the deputies who were hired, etc. in some others, but it's simply not a topic, nor this time to talk about it and since we're slowly running out of time, look ahead, the government has adopted a new Pension Insurance Act today, see HDZ has returned the year of retirement to 65. Because 67 years old. It's SDP's story, it's SDP's story, it's SDP 13.12.2013. adopted in this assembly, 67. And HDZ's back to 65 now, why? Well, because the Croatian citizens said it was so, but please note that the minister didn't accidentally touch the 33rd and 38th of the 67th. The SDP years would remain Croatian citizens, and the SDP is now suddenly showing great care for these citizens and that is, my colleague Mrsic I was very politely silent while you were speaking, and that is something that simply SDP cannot escape from, 13.12.2013. about 13.00 HDZ v, SDP and its satellites to let Croats retire from 67.g. And that's a fact, and they've done that on the basis of these reports that they've adopted every year. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian defenders were not in the homeland war and killed Croatian defenders to gain privileges and privileged pensions, but to defend the Croatian homeland, and HS gave them the rights under the Law on Croatian Defence, and that is true and that is a fact and it is not a privileged pension and it is logical thing if you give some right to secure from fiscal incomes the means to make it worth it and for the sake of Croatian citizens no story about defence pension pensions, they will not bring the pension system of the Republic into any problems and I will support this report, methodologically some things next year can change that they are even more quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165463	Thank you. We have replicas of dear colleague Miranda Mrsic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165464	Comrade Shuker, when we talk about defenders, then no one has said that defenders need to be reduced to pensions and that they need to be abolished, but that they need transparency. The defenders have an internship, this internship needs to be financed from the contributions, but there's another part that the state said because you were at war we're giving you financial compensation. And the separation was good, you shouldn't have touched it because of your votes with the defenders and now you're defending them in a way that when they leave, if you're in power, you won't touch that part. For example, it was very clear if you had a 15-year-old lawyer. working internship and pension of 5,800,00 kn for these 15 g. They'll get $1.800,00 from retirement insurance, and $4,000 from the budget, and that was fair and clear, and the separation of pensions was good, just for you, which is why you went into this, you got 750,000 signatures, and now you're jumping into your mouth because here you go back to 65. You wouldn't put it back. that the citizens did not tell you clearly [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Yes... [[Employer: Answer]] Back up. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165465	There's a fellow Shucker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165466	Look, colleague Mrsic, as you said you were wrong when you were 67, I'll use your rhetoric, I say HDZ returns to 65, that's your rhetoric, therefore, it's simply a fact. The other thing is, if you'd spoken to me like you said in your replica, the defenders wouldn't have attacked you at all because of your statement, if you'd spoken like you just did. However, someone 15 years old. The internship if not a Croatian military disabled does not have a pension of 5.800,00 should be known as a former minister because the average pension of those who went to civil law to say so and to get an add-on to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders, somewhere around £2.800,00, therefore you re-exposed one thing with deception, but I am only saying the facts and I only had this debate because of the Croatian defenders because I am terribly bothered when the facts are not being presented, so someone who is 15 years old. The internship does not have a pension of 5,800,00 if it is not HRVI.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165467	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165468	Thank you, Vice President HS. I'm glad you answered Mr. Schooker because he would have had to answer even though he wasn't replicating me, but the fact is that often in HS, you talk to the deaf, or you hint at the blind. We forget the circumstances that happened in the Republic of Croatia, by creating the Republic of Croatia, I do not now think about the homeland war and the Law on Croatian defenders, which was adopted by the most noble law in the HS, did it, in which way, when and how he abused or abused himself, to the souls of those who did so. However, we also forget the circumstances that due to the war circumstances bankruptcy has occurred in many parts... And because of the bankruptcy, many people had to retire. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are things that are forgotten in the Republic of Croatia, today they're being pulled to the surface and they're being talked about negatively, but a large part of the users of today's pensions might not have wanted to retire then, but was forced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165469	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165470	Thank you very much. I'm sure most of the defenders who came back alive and healthy from the war would rather work eight hours and have been educated to make progress in the business than to receive a pension and to be called by someone today. It's just a fact. By obtaining such or such circumstances they found themselves in a position to retire not in the way they might have planned. However, I repeat, these are not preferential pensions, these are pensions based on the special legislation we gave people. But I'm saying it's very interesting that no one calls those who are still in the NOB's pensions, even though people simply made it through some law and that's what it is. But they're very interesting to no one, and those who created the Croatian state, bled on it, they suddenly have something privileged, they have nothing privileged. We have given them what they belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165471	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In April of this year, the average defence pension was HRK 5618 and the average labor pension of 2342 kuna, for the same reason, for the same thing you did for what you did, for so long you got such a pension. But what's also beneath the public's attention, because now Mr. Schucker has provoked me, and then we're going to sort of list all the things that Mr. Bulaja knows, and probably Mr. Serdar is new, so he knows what's waiting for him in the pension system, which is that we have a system guaranteed the lowest defense pensions. This means that if someone retires and the defender is, gets the minimum pension of 2300 kuna guaranteed, the state will give him another 500 kuna on that so that it will be his 2800. And it costs about 540 million kuna for 2018. Yes, it's correctly calculated, data from the office. It is estimated that 124,000 people will use that privilege, which is about 2025. 24 billion kuna. So these are the things I'm talking about. I'm talking about making the system clear and transparent. And that we must tell the citizens what we have here in the House that citizens must know how much it costs. And no one's saying the defenders didn't have an internship, they had these NOB interns. When I speak of separation of pensions, then I think of them and of the natives, all those who are under the homeland army stood up. And on the other hand, I warn that the only preferential pension or pension under a special regulation, the number of those that will grow will only be defense pensions. These others are gone, there's no congregation, we've abolished it. I don't know if HDZ voted for it, I don't think so, 2012. So there's no more NOB, so nature does its thing, now there's 11 thousand of them, there'll probably be fewer of them very soon. Also, the JNA pensions that were also called by the defenders are therefore our citizens who were in the JNA service. There's Tudjman, and there's Bobetko, so there's my Uncle St. Letica, so they've been in the service and they've been taking a pension from that former, former military pension fund. So I want it all out of the pension system. Also when we talk about additional transfers to the pension system where the state also said that what you've earned is so much and we're still adding to you because of the welfare system that you don't fall below the poverty line, it costs so much. So it should go off the pension system. And then we're left with what it is that HZMO cares and does what it's supposed to do, and that's paying off the pensions earned by the internship. And what I was saying about that pension, for example, I didn't say it was a real calculation, but for example, as one example, we were doing calculations for all categories of Croatian wartime disabled people who had a pension and we explained it to everyone and Mr. Bear in 2013 several times, I don't know if it was Mr. Bulaja, probably not then but there's documentation in the pension insurance office, so we drew very clearly what it means to separate pensions. And then you, in order to reach out to your electoral body, put an end to it, went completely wrong. In 2013 that we passed the law here in the Parliament to retire at 67 years of age, you were against, you, I read the discussion of fellow drinkers who was vehement and who said when we came to power we will return it to 65 years... And now you're coming back, but you're not coming back because it's a pre-election promise, but you're being pushed by 750 thousand people. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's a fact you can't escape from. And why didn't you touch, why did you go this way, because you didn't want to do what the European Commission told you. And all the time she was telling us and telling you that the pension system needs to be cleaned from what is not a real pension system classic and that it should go through the budget transfer. That's where I proposed a law on professional retirement for soldiers, firefighters, so cops, for all those we know that I can't work until 68, up to 60, I can't work until 55. There's a respected vice president, Brkic, so he knows that if he's not in some command structure, he can't work for more than 50 or 55 years. And that's where I suggested we also give them a professional pension so that they can then live with that professional pension and then give them the opportunity to work, do something else. That's the same thing you refused. So, the goal of my entire work as a minister, and right now, I haven't changed my mind and my position to remove what doesn't matter and what's not part of the pension system. You, the first decision was to break up, go back and justify yourself in front of the European Commission, you set out in this reduction from 38 to 33. Why wasn't there a referendum in 2013? Because we've sat down with the unions and said we'll put it on 2038, by then we'll improve the working conditions in Croatia, we'll bring the Professional Pensions Act, we'll settle the rehabilitation issue, the state will help employers who have people over 60 to rehabilitate them and to work on other jobs and others, we've introduced a long-term insurance internship. So, 60 years and 41 years so you can retire. It was a complete package, and there was no strike, there was no protest, there was no referendum. You were boastful, the unions tricked you, obviously Minister Pavić didn't, he strayed that portfolio, so he didn't think it would go by force, you passed the law, and you thought you were still then, and now you've got a referendum, and now you have nowhere to go because what are you going to do now? If you go to the referendum, he will now be at the time of the campaign for the President, it will be a referendum on the government's work and in principle that signing the signature was both in part and due to these pensions by special regulations because citizens it hurts. They're in pain of injustice in the system and they want to solve that injustice in the system or they could do what you're doing right now, but you're still making a mistake, instead of signing your ears and admitting it and putting it into the law and sort of calming down unions like in 2010 when it was those signatures around the Labour Act when you were then, you're going second extremes, now you're going with some 68-year-old system that's completely unfair and totally unfair. We will be the only country in the world to have such a system, which will in principle shut down employment in public services. Don't be afraid, in the real sector, no employer will want to leave a worker after 65 years, he won't leave him after 60 years, let alone that he'll be working until 68 years, and that's why it took you to think a little bit and not go that way, now what happened to you and you don't have anywhere to go. What you've been doing with this 68-year-old is saving Private Plenkovic but that will lead to health problems, in school, we won't be able to hire young professors and everyone will work until 68. My fellow medics are going to work up to 70 if they need to and we're going to go with young doctors, you have a numberus Klaus, as many places, as many people, where are you going with them? And we ask you not to do this, but there it was in the government, it goes on, it will break in front of young people who will not be able to get a job in Croatia, so once again it will be a reason to go from Croatia. And as for injustice in the pension system, they are seen in this report. And what I clearly support is that instead of solving it this way as the Government is now trying, a question of family pensions should be resolved because it also hurts our citizens this injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165473	Thank you. Dear fellow Shucker, replica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165474	Dear Mrsic, I am pleased that the two of us have done so to say this debate because you have turned to one 360 degree, primarily as regards some pensions, but that we collect 80 or 90% of the necessary pension funds from the contribution, then some kind of separation this way. I could even understand you, but since we finance more than 40% of pensions from tax revenues, and these pensions according to special regulations aren't nearly that much, so I think this whole story and that's why I said, this report is for us to change the methodology to show some other things. You told me to put the defense attorneys at the D.A.'s, the cops at the D.A.'s, and now tell me we're gonna put members of the J.N.A. if we're gonna get them out of this? ... And I don't know where. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And the other thing, I'm glad you said that you and the unions have agreed who knows what's going to happen since 2038, if Pavić had thought about it the same way, so this would not be a referendum, but I repeat, HDZ returns the border to 65 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165475	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mrsic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165476	Comrade Shuker, no one will believe you that HDZ returns to 65 years of age but good, good try... Nice try. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] When we talk about the budget then very clearly that the budget needs to be cleaned up, the pension budget needs to be cleaned up from all the parts that are not part of the pension but you were the minister, do you know how much the basic cost of retirement is? Come on, tell me, do you know that? Do your colleagues know whether Bulaja or Mr Serdar, what is the cost of pensions just an internship, no social transfers, so without that act, so guaranteed minimum pensions, guaranteed defence pensions, no additions, no everything, how much is the pension system budget? How much is the best transition cost, 5 billion, I guarantee you that we finance 80 to 90% of that cost from contributions, and that's what I want to see in the Pension Insurance Act, that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165477	Thank you. Next replica... Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165478	Dear fellow Mrsic, you mentioned another item that should never have been touched, which is the pension of early retirement because we are now coming up with the situation that everyone retired before 1999 to 2007 has the most penalization, 9% then from 2010 to 2018 have a pension that respects the length of a job while someone is 40 years old, could have had the highest 6% of the pension, and then we have the one that was destroyed, we have 18% of the pension, in the future we will have 12% of the pension. So what is legal certainty for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will have the right to sue the Republic of Croatia for human rights by constantly changing their terms?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165479	Thanks, buddy. Answer, colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165480	Well, colleagues of Hrelja, there is the stupidity that HDZ has made with this law, or Minister Pavić, that has come up with this which has led us now to have citizens who will be retired for the rest of their lives will have fewer pensions because of the stupidity of Minister Pavic and Prime Minister Plenkovic who went to do something they shouldn't have done. At least I expected that HDZ would be so fair that in this new Bill on Pension Insurance it must be changed in law, simply a colleague of Hrelja, me and you would be for it and lift the cap, I would tell HDZ every honour to damage those people for a year and then return that pension to their level in 2010 and early 2018, respectively. And yet HDZ creates injustice in the pension system, I was hoping that HDZ would be sufficient to deprive people, that they wouldn't be for a year, so life punished for the stupidity that was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165481	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165482	Out of respect for Croatian citizens, I must use art. 238 Rules of Procedure. Dear Mrsic, it would have been good if you had read the new bill, then you would have seen that practically since 1.1. and translated them to 0.2, therefore, colleague Mrsic, don't be so theatrical now, it would have been better if you had read the law in detail, then it would have been so, it would not have hurt the Rules of Procedure then.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165483	Comrade Shuker, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed, and you have also abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article. 239 I give you a warning. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA, Honored colleague Silvano Hrelja. ... Comrade Mrssic, I beg you nicely. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Please, if you have anything else to add and get out of you two and discuss it. Here you go, buddy Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague and colleague, representatives of the Croatian Pensions Institute. So once again, the problem is this report for 2018, the problem is the future functioning of this one, let's hope that a hundred-year-old, well-known office in these areas and has little in Europe of the elderly, one public institution that has had such a great concentration of knowledge, intelligence and experience, the problem is that it stopped having 2000 and 2001 respectively and business autonomy and financial autonomy, thus losing influence on making pension legislation, so politics could impose solutions that were not in line with EU, global and wider pension regulations. We all thought it wasn't going to happen, but this thing went a little too far. You know, and Mr. Sanader wouldn't allow himself to appoint a director of HZMO someone outside HZMO. Minister Mrsic didn't allow it either, it's the latest practice. I'm not saying that you can't overcome that problem, but if you had to respect the experience that's accumulated inside HZMO, it would be very necessary for those who are retired to call for their advisors and tell you the truth about Europe's pension systems and beyond. So, yes, there were no problems and some mistakes in last year's reform. Some have happened because it was only suggested by Minister Mrsic. In 2013, you attacked us here why we allow pensioners to work. Last year, we were saying that everyone needs to be liberalized by the work of the pensioners. Minister Mrsic said in 2013 that, but at the same time, we will have those who have a pension for a long-term no-penalization internship, let's do 0.15 per m. The rest of the world's work will stimulate them not to retire and most of them will remain. No, it's gone now. Now we're motivated to stay in the world of work the older than 65. Now tell me, who's crazy here? Which has more potential, from 60 to 65, I think if a sick man is sick from 55 and 60 and from 70 but let's watch in general, let's watch how nature requires, then I'm sure they'd prove that more working potentials have those between 60 and 65 of those after 65 and now watch out for them, we're giving not 0.30 in proportion to the pension that was, but we're giving them 0.34 bonuses to stay in the world of work. At the same time, we allowed them to work on pensions, some activities can work all the time with 50% of pensions, so we made different criteria for different profiles of pensioners. If we had HZMO that had its own business autonomy, no policy could impose such a solution. And lastly, we've had a bad terminology here twice. First, there are no preferential pensions, there are pensions under special regulations and the professional regulation is because their insurance internship is not covered by the payment of contributions over the years. It doesn't exist in the pension system full-time because the full internship is in 65 and 15 years and 30 years and 40 years, it's all full-time. So when you're talking about statistics, then say that she's a pension we're dealing with, so who's nice to everyone, for 40 years an insurance internship with an exception to that statistic, you don't have those who have 20 and 20 here in Germany, but that's a different story, I'm throwing you a statistic glove, I'm willing to face and argue these views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165485	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. Final word on behalf of the applicant Mr. Ivan Serdar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165486	Honorable Vice President, honourable parliamentary representatives. Finally, I was mentioned in the final word that as an implementing institution, the immovable movements of insurance and users in the pension system cannot affect except by the participation of our experts in the analysis of the state of the system and the forecasts of further movements of essential sizes in this system. What we can certainly do is, as we have done so far, make every effort to implement the rules governing pension insurance and child care as legal as possible within the shorter deadlines and at the lower cost of implementation, so that we consistently implement the objectives set out in our strategic documents, which are to increase business urgency and improve administrative and technical support to the system. As I said before, the costs of implementation really... but in the future, we must also continue to invest funds and in informing the system, further development and expansion of electronic business between the related institutions, both between the institutions and the users of its services, but also the funds should be invested in education and professional training of the workers of the Institute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the only way that the Institute's professional service will be able to meet the challenges posed by the growing number of users, the increasingly complex regulations regulated by our system as well as the information, electronic business and data exchange between related institutions within the Republic of Croatia and the EU. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165487	I thank Mr Serdar. Replica, dear colleague of the Hrelja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165488	Dear Mr. V.D. Director, still V.D., right? So I just want to tell you one thing, there's a lot of talk about informing or digitizing HZMO. Unfortunately, I have to admit that since the digitisation or information that was made in 2015, it hasn't gone very far. There's a lot of talk and a little work done. Therefore, I ask you to be precise in the following reports and to say yes, this is what we did in 2015, and this is what we did in 2016, this 2017, and this is what we plan on doing next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165489	Thank you, Mr. Hrelja. I'm closing the debate, thanking you again V.D. Director of HZMO Mr. Ivan Serdar and his associate, Mr. Ivy Bulai. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9:30 in the morning with the agenda item Report on the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 7:39 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-10-0.u165490	Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2018. Carrier of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, discussion concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is hereby accepted in 2018. Let's vote please. I find that most of the votes, 78 for and 31 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body.
