ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146314	Before we move to today's agenda, I'm reporting that next week we'll start working on Tuesday, 9 July at 9:30. We're moving to agenda points. - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Deputy Chief State Auditor: Chief State Auditor; the Proposer is the Chief State Auditor on the basis of Articles 16 and 18. The State Audit Office Act. I ask the Chief State Auditor, Mr. Ivan Klesic, to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the State Audit Office has a Deputy State Audit Office appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Chief State Auditor for a term of office of 8 years. In October 2011, the Croatian Parliament made a decision to appoint Jozo Serdarusic as deputy chief state auditor. Since Mr Serdarusic highlights the mandate in October of this year in accordance with the said provision of the State Audit Office Act to this High House, I have submitted a proposal for the appointment of the Deputy Chief State Auditor. This is Mrs. Nedeljka Rogosic whose resume you all got. Ms. Rogois has been an employee of the State Audit Office since January 1997, in which she was in charge, I would say, has passed a complete and complete audit cycle from the State Auditor, more State Auditor, the Head of Department to the Assistant Chief State Auditor where she is in charge of organising and conducting audits of non-profit organisations, political parties, European funds and planning, methodology and development. On the basis of the above, in accordance with the Law on the State Audit Office as the Chief State Auditor of the Republic of Croatia, I propose that this House be appointed as the Deputy Chief State Auditor of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146316	I would like to thank Mr Ivan Klesic, the chief state auditor for the explanation of this proposal. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146317	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, the Honorable Chief State Auditor, Mr. Klesic. So here is the proposal for the appointment of Deputy Chief State Auditor, the Master of Science, Nedeljka Rogosic, will support the HDZ Club. Namely, the Law on the State Audit Office of 1 March of this year stipulates that the Croatian Assembly shall appoint the Deputy Chief State Auditor on the proposal of the Chief State Auditor. As the chief state auditor, Mr. Ivan Klesic, suggested just now, we heard Mrs. Klesic. Nedjka Rogosic as his deputy and as he is the main state auditor since 2010 and the new 8-year term was unanimously won in this House in December last year, we expect his deputy to also be unanimously elected on his proposal. As can be seen in Mrs Nedeljka Rogosic's résumé, she has had working experience in the State Audit Office from January 1997 to the day and has been employed by the state auditor through several state auditors, the head of the department to the assistant head of state auditor since October 2004. In its jurisdiction were audits of non-profit organisations, political parties, European funds, planning of methodology and development, funds of international organisations and institutions, efficiency audits, legal transactions, etc. She published 41 papers of which 7 with an internationally recognised review. It is certain that the Master of Science Nedjljka Rogošić will contribute with his work that the State Audit Office will continue and even better be assessed by the high assessment of the usefulness and quality of the report by the users and the entities of the audit. The HDZ Club will therefore support this proposal for appointing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146318	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146319	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed state auditor. Here we see that what is an audit that, a huge audit that does its job very well, means that the example was a state audit and that other institutions are competent to do their job, there would be no case happening, which happens in the Republic of Croatia. We also have an example of the case in shipbuilding where billions have been spent means not purposefully, i.e. illegally, the state audit warned about this for years, saying that. in our reports officially to us Assembly representatives, we have warned parliamentary representatives about the problem of shipbuilding and non-intentional spending of state money. The state audit has done its job, however unfortunately other institutions have not and we see what Croatian shipbuilding has led to. As well as in other cases where the state audit pointed out. We were officially informed in our reports, by us, by the government, by all other institutions. Unfortunately, as in the case of shipbuilding in many other cases, nothing was done. So I'm interested, here's the appointment, the subject is the deputy chief state auditor and I'm interested in all these human capacities. So the financial capacity of the auditor's office could be strengthened. However, I am interested in the question of what are the possibilities of the state office to do its job and even better and better quality, which is not on my behalf as a questionnaire, but here the triba warns from this pay phone, that everything that the state audit has sent to the DORH, other institutions, according to the Government, is not reflected. I don't know what, as far as the state's office is concerned with irregularities, illegality in the Republic of Croatia, mostly in, where the bigger money was, where it was big money, and even smaller money, mostly where the subsidized companies were, and that money wasn't spent, I'm wondering if anything was solved, is anything the DORH, USKOK, whether the government was taking any steps, because I'm always going to repeat. What was happening in terms of billions of kunas invested in shipbuilding, the beginning of the Split Shipyard further, the money did not end in shipbuilding, and the state audit gave it in its reports. Here, I would pray to these answers regardless of what it is about the appointment of the deputy auditor, the chief auditor, I think that the tribal about this problem would speak as much as possible to increase capacity, whether it is necessary, whether you have enough money to do this is huge, huge means your jurisdiction, from local self-government, from non-profit organisations, political parties, associations to companies co-financed for this funds and associations of state money funds. It is interesting that you do your job, and the other institutions at your apparition, i.e. The facts you give very little have given solutions, legal solutions. But this is the biggest example, so we can also talk about the re-use of land where maritime goods are in the management of the sea, which is also in the jurisdiction, firstly, marine in the jurisdiction of local and regional self-government, and I can say that the maritime good is what happens about the re-use of land in the case of Lovre Kuštević and others that it is essentially a drop in the sea what happens to maritime goods, with our beaches being given in concessions such as the Golden War on Brač, such as Bene now in Split to increase the coalition potential given to its coalition partner and many other things. As a result, I believe that it would increase the number of people working in the office and also eat, and also to increase and financially mean the possibility that this financial capacity of the office is simply what happens in the Republic of Croatia that competent institutions are not doing their job. So this case of land re-use from agricultural land that was given several tens of thousands of kunas and was re-scheduled overnight, the mayor of the municipality, is not only in the case of where Minister Kuščević came from, billions were raised on agricultural land where it happened, where it was bought for small money, it could be started from my Sinj, where agricultural land was re-used into construction overnight, where information was given that it could be bought as agricultural land for small money. So I think that the trio should strengthen this office, but send criticism to those who found the audits absolutely did not respond. I've listed a shipbuilding case here, where the review has been going on for years, but there's been no reaction. We have these on 1,000 problems, and I believe that this much responsibility must have a greater number of people, and of course more financial capacity, means that more funds are allocated from the budget of the tribune in order for the audit to do its job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146320	I thank my colleague Bull. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about appointments or the subject of state audit, it is one thing of course to talk about the person and her competences, certain values to behave her duty, and the other is what Mr. Bulj was saying earlier. When we talk about how and how budget money is controlled, or how we have insight as well as the review and the public about how our local leaders spend, spend money, how they manage trust or public goods, and on this side, that we can separate two things here. So as for the appointment of colleague Rogosic, I see no dispute here, I will personally support my colleague because I know her professional qualities and how she does her job and career in the State Audit, but what Mr. Bulj is saying is one serious question. So let's see, in what way we can, in my opinion, get into the problem of non-control and inability to control at all, or what I'd say is the detection of the indifferences that occur at local level. Kuštević is now the freshest example. It means whether or not it is possible for one of the mayors of the municipality, small municipalities, to acquire several thousand inhabitants an enormous wealth during the conduct of their duties on land re-purpose in their municipality. Is the revision even able to detect such an attitude and can it react? On the other hand, we've got another incredible situation, meaning the scandalous situation in Virovitica. 17 million kunas reportedly gone. Whether the revision can establish such irregularities, when the mayor, who is politically responsible and who should be responsible, is personally involved or not, because people chose him to control what happens to their money. And if 17 million kunas evaporate and a man at that point says, look, controls weren't the best possible. That's what I'm saying about Mayor Kirin. I couldn't do anything about it. Then why did people choose you? Why did they choose you? Well, it's not 100, a thousand or 10 thousand kuna, although 10 thousand kuna is a huge amount of money, it's 17 million kuna. And now to ask, now to ask the question also, how is it possible that we didn't notice it in the revision of one city's reports? You know, that's, that's an interesting question. I'm not saying now that someone's not here, he hasn't controlled what he had in order to do, but apparently that warrant wasn't wide enough when a city-size review of Virovitica was done. Maybe we should take a look at the receipts. Maybe you should look at the money flow, not just the papers, the bills you've been booked, paid, etc. So it's impossible for us to control and revise a city that has a budget of 200, 300 million kunas to discover that 17 million kunas have been missing for the past few years, and no one can make an example of it. So for me, the mayor is absolutely politically responsible and I don't know what else to explain to Mr. Kirin that he should resign. People chose him to control the money they paid in the city and the way that money was spent. Not to mention that he personally chose, unfortunately, there was a tragedy, a person who was head of finance. These are the things we simply have to talk about, when we talk about reviewing, when we talk about any subject that's being touched, mention it. So without it, it's very difficult to discuss at all. Or, here's the situation from the other day in a municipality in the Republic of Croatia where the taxpayers' money has also been spent for years, where, of course, HDZ gets smooth, and even people say, so what do you think now after it's been discovered that the Commissioner of Criminal Response and Stealing is now going to vote for another party? Well, no, he'll vote for HDZ again. Imagine that paradox. Imagine that paradox. So the man, the captain, he knows Mr. Loncar who's involved, the man is suspected of a catastrophic crime and is now still being mentioned and joked on by local HDZ people who will vote for him rather than again for HDZ people, whether the captain ends up being held accountable or not. So these are the things to be absolutely discussed. These are things that, even now, the new deputy chief state auditor, the main state auditor that should be taken into account here in the coming years and the next audits. I suggest you make it on the Virovitica case... And that next year we have all the capitals of the county under such control or those who have more, I don't know, of 50 million kuna or 20 million kuna of original income. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As in Virovitica, such a case must not happen anywhere else in Croatia. So someone with a responsibility, so there's probably no internal controls in Virovitica, though, because if there were internal controls, that wouldn't have happened. So, of course, the mayor's responsibility is absolutely the biggest and funny thing now seems to be the situation that he's doing some of his investigations, the city council is spreading powers, etc., as if he should now establish what happened later. No, no, Mr. Mayor, you're supposed to establish before what's happening and how it's stolen, if you steal money from the city budget. No one needs you now after the money's gone. You were supposed to be here before, you were supposed to make a system so it couldn't happen, so the citizens and the citizens of Virovits chose you. So, it's amazing the amount of scandals that come out from day to day and just a man can't believe it's even possible. It's as if the situation from the '90s when it was neat, the companies were divided, taken on this side and on the other side, used war to make some rich, as if those times had returned after 20 years and a few years. It is amazing that we have a situation where the head of the municipality re-routes pastures into building land, and it is de facto of his country. Incredibly, in 2019 when Croatia is an EU member, when we complain about sitting at a table with the world's most developed democracies, we happen to have people falling for the most basic things and there is no critical deviation from it. It means that people, well now Prime Minister Plenkovic, who taught lessons in Lisinski in 2015, remembers everyone here who was probably from HDZ there, that Croatia or the party or I don't know what to be the hostage of one man. How now that Croatia is hostage to a few people who have made such an affair that they simply form us day by day. Since it's not worth the criteria he was speaking of at the time for another HDZ president who, I didn't think I'd ever say this, in this situation seems like a small child, like he didn't do any inconsistencies. So when you see those stories that made Karamarko go away, so what Kuščević and other ministers in the HDZ government seem to be levels of less insubordination than he did even though, of course, it deserved to leave the government and it is good that then the government fell, but now these criteria obviously are no longer valid for HDZ, for Plenkovic they are not worth it. I don't know what's happened in the last 4.5 years, but this situation isn't normal. Read every day some headlines, affairs that spring, people simply cannot believe that such a low level of responsibility to the behaviour of the government at this time in the government and HDZ exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146322	I thank my colleague Maras. I'd like to ask you nicely to stick to the agenda topic, colleague Maras. I haven't interrupted you, but I'd like to ask my future colleagues and colleagues. So we have replicas. Dear colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146323	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Maras, on several occasions, has spoken of re-use of land and the estimated value that changes. I would like you and the public to know how the expansion of the building land is coming, and the fact is to re-purpose agricultural land in particular in our coastal areas is growing in value multiple times. So the existing municipality had enough built-up area and there was also a need for a new construction area and they got the possibility of expanding to 50,000 m2. Do you think the owners of the remaining 48,000 and some squares should be suspended, given that the Minister Kuštević should have been slightly less than 2,000 square meters and that this expansion of 50,000 m2 of new building land should have gone to another side, in another direction just because There are also slightly less than 2,000 square meters from Minister Kuštević in the neighborhood. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146324	I thank my colleague Juričev Martinchev. I asked you nicely to stick to the subject and I don't know what this subject has to do with what you've been talking about with the appointment of the deputy chief state auditor, but here's the hope that colleague Maras will answer that in the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146325	Thank you very much. And a new deputy chief state auditor should take care of the things the lady was talking about. I don't even mention that people buy land, invest in real estate, but I'm really surprised that you don't see the illogicality of it, that the person who decides which direction they're going to work on land change is directly interested as the owner of the country. Well, I think he'd tell you, so there's no place to go, so it's illegal behavior, I don't even know what to say, it can be questioned from the legal point of view, whether that person used some information that he knew, because he's the proposer, to buy and when he bought the land. So please, I think that's what the Chinese wall needs to separate from. Mr. Kuščević has done something that no one can do in the conduct of public duty. And that's why you need to leave. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146326	Thank you, colleague Maras. The answer to your answer. We have the next line, dear colleague Davor Lonachar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146327	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I said something yesterday, but now I'm literally going to say you don't even know how to fill the budget of the local administration unit and the way it's being spent. And the positions he actually has in spending all the funds on budgets. It is amazing to hear that it is so easy to provide data and compare Virovitica or any other municipality or municipality that has done what it has done and will be responsible for it, and in this country there are institutions that will check and their task is to determine whether one and the other has made and the failures you are talking about. And please don't put things out at once that absolutely don't hold water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146328	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic. You haven't heard from your colleague Maras. Here's a colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146329	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Maras, and it should be said that the state audit is doing its job well and that the fill-in of personnel, the appointment of people, the strengthening of the team that manages the state audit is welcome and certainly needs to be advocated for further creating better material conditions for their work, because from the reports we get here we see that there is a shift in well done work and in units of local self-government, parties and other state bodies. However, what should be pointed out is that there are still some who do not respect the recommendations of state audits, that they repeat errors from error per year, and I have sought it out publicly, and now I repeat, that public disclosures by those who do not respect the recommendations and year after year repeat the same errors in the budget, especially when it comes to the illegal spending of taxpayers' tax money, and therefore these happen that some are outside the system, that other state bodies, the State Attorney's Office and the judiciary are not doing the job based on State Audit recommendations. That is why Virovitica and Škabrnja and other municipalities are also happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146330	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146331	Thank you very much. Indeed various interventions I hear here in the Croatian Parliament, but a man can't be surprised at people who repeat themselves as parrots, let institutions do their job, let them prove to them, ok, let them prove to them but the fact is that from Virovitica, now you mentioned, the mayor admitted that 17 million kuna was missing. The fact is that the lady who was the first co-worker in Škabrnja has returned the money, has already returned the money and is likely to go deal with the DORH. What are we talking about? So what are we talking about? Coffee now has as much to do with how and how it is loaded. So how can 17 million kunas disappear so the mayor doesn't notice, he's either incapacitated or he's inside choosing what he's going to do with the two of them. I don't know what he likes anymore whether he's incompetent or inside. He'll probably claim he didn't know anything now. But it's impossible not to see, [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] It's impossible, 17 million kunas have evaporated. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146332	I thank my colleague Maras, since I have warned you twice, you are speaking out of the question again, I would like to give you a reminder based on Article 239. We're moving on to an individual discussion of a respected colleague of Mira Bulja, please. Wait a minute, I'm sorry, buddy Bulj. A colleague of Maras has been injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146333	Thank you very much. I'm, uh, injured article 232, I wasn't talking off topic, so I wasn't talking, I was saying, a colleague gave me a replica, I was answering his line. So that's the theme. I don't know how a man would answer off the subject if he was responding to a replica someone told him earlier, so that's impossible. If you didn't warn your colleague Vlaovic that he was off topic, then I'm totally on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146334	Comrade Maras, a colleague of Vlaovic, spoke about the conduct of a state audit rather than what you said, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been injured. We're moving on to an individual discussion of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146335	Thank you very much. The appointment of a deputy, of course, will be supported because the Office of State Audit is essentially as I said doing its job with its capacities and financial capabilities and with meaning and with the need it has. However, the fact is that this further body should be strengthened by the state audit because only when we look at how much it is, how much jurisdiction over how many bodies, how many non-profit organisations, local self-government, regional self-government, all state bodies, ministries, public procurement. So there's a huge and wide range of audits, of course it's not going into everything, but it's just going to partially process all the procedures and spending the money and procedures that are needed. Here's what's very important to me to mention is that one of the main brakes where the audit can do its job and you and your deputy and people, but it needs to increase capacity, is that you once said that the number of people is missing. This means public procurement where public procurement is not carried out in accordance with the laws or public procurements that apply, we will now not list which examples and how much in the Republic of Croatia that it is very important for them to hold back essentially, i.e. The competition is questionable because, in fact, one who is better is not given a particular job, mainly public procurement that has been carried out for years and at local levels, simple bargaining in public procurement may be one of the biggest problems behind economic development. Because not competition on the market leads to those who are better decomposed and those who are eligible to survive in a way that mainly or not pay their workers or that they have not obtained the job in a non-transparent way. So it's a huge job. I would only mention spatial plans at this time that local self-governments that have or manage maritime well-being will always mention one of the very important things that have both local and regional self-governments where it really suits them. Here I tell you and... Countless examples, I won't be returning to the Golden War on Brac, that's one part because it's a significant beach but others are important to be affected by our public good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have examples where we still need to strengthen this office because we have examples, spaces that are for public good. For example, we have a bus station in Sinj which is public good, but it is all today, it remains one small part, bus station, public service for public good, but this bus station, of course, has been preferred to be for another purpose rather than what the law prescribed to be in public service because we all call for public transport. Or an example of a hypodrom here in Zagreb it's a public good, so it's good sports purposes. This is not and should be discussed in this way and the revision there must have that effect, regardless of being called to the assembly, to the mayors, cannot be publicly usurped. I'll be back for my re-designs. They're re-purposed, not only this case that's being mentioned now, which is current but public, meaning the shifts from agricultural to construction is so widespread at local level that it's unimaginable. Where corn was supposed to grow have grown objects and it's actually bought for agricultural land much cheaper, so it's about millions of amounts it's a simple story for you. Let's say I'm good with the mayor, I buy 10 thousand kunas 100 thousand square meters of agricultural land, at the next session of the city council, the mayor changes his spatial plan, and it becomes agricultural land. Now it's no longer a 1 metre square, but 500 euros is a square meter. So at one point, you've only gotten 3.5 thousand dollars on purpose. We don't have to be the brakes of development or the State Audit Office of certain local self-governments, what the colleague said earlier that the construction of certain municipalities, settlements, are simply looking for a new one. We don't have to be, but we have to be careful about that. I can cite my example from Sinj where during the night agricultural land was farmed years ago, even 10 years ago refurbished overnight and from agriculture it became meaning building land and of course it was a huge profit, and there were other jobs where it could be expanded.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146336	Dear colleague Bulj, I ask you nicely and warn you to return to the topic, the item of the agenda, and the point is, to remind you, the proposal for a Decision appointing the deputy chief state auditor. It's not about re-purposed land. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146337	Well, I wouldn't agree with you, Mr. President, that, State Deputy, Deputy State Auditor, which needs to be appointed, if it wasn't necessary to talk about... And their good means well done business in their work that warned you and me both. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I told them just now to get into the shipbuilding, we had here on the tables, spend non-intentional money. However, neither the government has reacted nor the institutions have reacted, which means that I want to say here that it is necessary to appoint a deputy, but that capacity, primarily human, is not enough, this is what the state auditor was talking about before, and also financially, and especially because it is better to be, which is what the state's audit is going to be, we can make a decision in the Parliament that we don't need it. If they say that money is not spent on purpose, if they say that some things are illegally spent, public procurement is conducted or certain things, then what is the reason, or that local self-governments are not doing anything or state, the ministries are not working in accordance with the law, and nothing is being done. Then you better not have the State Audit Office. If we as parliamentarians can't make a point about it, then it's really pointless why the Office of State Audit, which is why all of their remarks are being made to us, all the correspondence to USKOK, DORH, Government. What's that for? Then make a good conclusion, you're the vice president in the majority, that we don't need the Office of State Audit doing its job, and I think we need to increase the number of professionals within the audit because it does its job and needs financial, improve the financial situation, i.e.. give them more money that they can mean to increase and financially, increase the number of people and of course, that they can technically be more equipped. This is my position, not enough just to discuss the revision, the appointment, their report in which they orderly state all illegalities, irregularities, unintended spending of funds, illegal procedures that are... to the damage to the taxpayer's budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we can't talk about it, Vice President, you make a conclusion about my debate, to shut down the State Audit Office, I'll be against it. I am in order to strengthen the Office of State Audit and that not only is the appointment of the deputy now necessary, but it is necessary for the Office of State Audit, all together, whether you were from the ruling majority or from the opposition, to come together from these discussions of conclusions which will benefit the Office of State Audit, which is why they ultimately receive the salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146338	Thank you, fellow Bull, for coming back on the subject. We have replicas, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146339	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. I'd just point out one thing, and that's that. Nedeljka Rogosic is an exceptional expert, an exceptional auditor, an exceptional man who has been in the system for many years and who has shown all this through her work all those years and has earned just as much progress within the system. This year is the first time the Committee on Finance under the new law has approved the financial plan of the State Audit Office and here, in line with the budget options, and the needs of the State Audit Office have been granted an increase in funds, both for employees and for the equipment of the State Office for the Audit of Material Assets, Computers, etc. So, here, we expect even better work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146340	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146341	I agree with the appointment of a deputy and the need to appoint a deputy who has worked in the State Audit Office for many years who does his job in accordance with the law that continues to report to us, gives the Government reports, sends competent institutions... Irregularity, however, I will persistently repeat that it is necessary to strengthen the Office of State Audit, but it is necessary for the competent institutions to be primarily my parliamentary representatives without, of course, being appointed, but regardless of the fact that we should be able to make sure that this Office of State Audit is strengthened, especially that the institutions that are responsible for this are not in the drawer of who knows di. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of all the institutions, of the DORH, of the Government, of the ministries, I don't know all who are in charge of the institutions and to whom they all deliver their audit findings. And that's the key to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146342	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply, the next replica of his esteemed colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146343	Thank you very much. A fellow Bull. Everyone agrees about Mr. Rogosic, and I took your debate as a concern on that side. Whether in new circumstances, Mr. Rogosic will be able, in fact, to reveal irregularities in the best possible way, such as, for example, local leaders' failures such as the disappearance of money, 17 million in Virovitica, Škabrnja, several hundred thousand kunas, and these incredible, immoral things made by Minister Kuščević in Nerežišće where he re-purposed land during his term of office where he was also one of those owners who benefited from it. So on that side, I absolutely support it. this debate of yours. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146344	Answer, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146345	As for local leaders and state audits and auditors, the deputy who is likely to be elected, of course I expect that he will commit himself as so far to his work, however, it is the fact that lex sheriff... the electoral local leaders simply behave Sheriffly, but most of them made it possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I think it is very important to answer about the findings of the State Audit, about the efforts of people who do not have enough capacity. For example, I listed shipbuilding where we have been warning for years that billions of kunas are being spent illegally. We had it on the table, and the government had it on the table, the competent ministry, all had competent institutions, but nothing was done. Here, that's one example, and that's the example at local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146346	Thank you for your response, Comrade Bull. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146347	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, today we are discussing a proposal to appoint a deputy chief state auditor for whom we all agree that she is very quality and that she will certainly behave very well, and you are talking about how public procurement is a great evil because she has many benefits. And I'm asking you, you're in contradiction, you're saying that the audit works well, you obviously don't know that the audit, when it comes somewhere, controls public procurement procedures from a to. So, public procurement works so that all those involved in the procedure have the possibility of complaining at every stage of the procedure and public procurement is certainly carried out in accordance with the law because that's not the case, all those involved in the procedure can complain and cannot happen not to respect the law in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146348	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146349	Here I have cited examples in the number of colleagues, in numerous breaks in my presentations where public procurement was and has been refurbished, even changing the criteria during the public procurement process without prior consultations and for EU funds, means there have been numerous such public procurements and people, who have their companies competing, who want to be competitive, however, mainly at local levels, in all these complaints, for all that the law does, the Office of State Audit and other institutions do not do their job well. I understand how the procedure is going in public procurement, but I am convinced of it and I know that public procurement is one of the huge problems. We have public procurements where the tunnels are painted, more expensive turned out for that color than the color tunnel of St. It's a deadline. It's an example of how much St. John's construction is. The hand. So we know the roads picked up five times. So let's remember a gram of iron RH. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146350	I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Chief State Auditor for the explanation of the motion for a decision, Mr Ivan Klesic. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146351	Proposal for a Decision appointing the Deputy Chief State Auditor. The applicant is the main state auditor, the debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for that decision. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 87 for, 20 abstentions and 3 against the decision on the appointment of the Deputy Chief State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146352	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, first reading, P.Z. No. 322; Proposer is Representative Ranko Ostojić. Proposer pursuant to Article 2 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. The government delivered an opinion. I would like to ask the promoter, a respected colleague of Ranko Ostojić, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146353	The Honorable Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. In March 2017, the Government sent the Code of Criminal Procedure into the procedure that we adopted. This was to meet the obligations, align legislation with EU directives and standards. In the context of the harmonisation adopted, among other things, amendments to the provisions of Art. 208. The law on criminal proceedings is for the purposes of the EU Directive of Parliament and of the Council on the right to access a lawyer in criminal proceedings, as well as the issue of arrest warrants, confiscation of freedom and communication with 3 persons and consular bodies. In order to correctly transpose the provisions of Directives 2 and 3, the applicant initially approached to amend the definition of suspects and art. 202nd century 2 of the CAP. In view of the fact that a mixed definition of suspects was accepted in the CAP, it assumed that the fulfillment of the formal one, meaning that the acquisition of the suspect's position was related to the submission of a criminal application, as a formal act of the competent authority and a material assumption, the suspect is a person against whom the reconnaissance is carried out or an emergency evidence work has been carried out. The directive defines the concept of a suspect only in a material sense and does not require a formal act by the competent authority to obtain the position of a suspect. And through the adoption of the amendments, the suspect is a person suspected of committing a criminal offence against whom the police, the state's attorneys, are taking action to resolve and suspect, a suspect in a material sense. Following this, there has been a change in police collection of information from citizens, and that is why I have proposed these amendments in the best interest to help the police officers whom I have to say in real life, police are a fundamental authority to learn about planned criminal offences, their potential perpetrators, and in order to meet this complex task, its activity must be simplified, freed from problems and obstacles that could limit it in the actions that precede the regular criminal procedure and to allow for the conditions for its launch. The process activity itself cannot, for many reasons, meet the requirements of real life because the execution of crimes is unplanned, happens at any time, every day unannounced, requires urgent, quick and lightning action by the police without delay because only this way can prevent the execution of criminal offences, that is to say, in the case of the crime already committed, to preserve traces that are normally exposed to decay, to catch the perpetrators or more of course the perpetrators. For that reason, I suggested that you be in Art. In 208, since police treatment and everything else that is currently defined by the CAP is limited. On certain examples, I hope not too long, and I think it is all in order to simplify these procedures and that police officers can do what is the basic part of their work, which is to gather information with which, of course, the competent authority could decide to initiate a criminal procedure. Among other things, in Article 1 that I have proposed, Article 208 to which these amendments apply, the one in custody under the current provisions of the law can only be if there are basic doubts that he could talk about himself. And in case it comes to that moment then of course you should go on a complete procedure which is very precise and it's recording, a suspect, etc. For this reason, I do not think it makes any sense that the defendant can be informed of the criminal parts of other persons and that in his statements when certain data in the criminal acts of committing that the police cannot use them and thereby limit the police's work in detecting the perpetrators themselves. As far as other matters are concerned, here is the question, and when we were now discussing the Law on Police Affairs and Powers in Article 5, as the amendments to the Law of 2017 have been deleted, that is, we have already done so and have done so that police cannot call a suspect to collect information in accordance with police powers, but the suspect can be called solely under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. What does that mean in practice? I'm going to try that on the simplest example, and it's a car accident, and at the intersection where the traffic lights are, both drivers are severely physically injured, you don't really know who the unsub is or who he's guilty of. Both may be or may even claim that one has gone through red or that both have made a mistake and the police must not make informed conversation with them after their current decision. She can't collect information with them, I'm wrong, I apologize, but she has to question them in the prescribed form. This means that the basic job that the police were doing, which is to collect information that could lead to further proceedings leading to the fact that this law has actually closed it in this way and that the police are no longer able to do the basic thing at all and that is to examine witnesses among other things. He can't talk to anyone, anyone at that point is actually a possible suspect. Now here's an example that you probably all know what it looks like in practice. Or what I'm proposing is actually going back to the practice that it was. There were no elements of a criminal offence in Ms. Minister's case, no criminal charges were filed, and that's what the police did, of course, contrary to the law because it's logical for them to do so. I think I need to be honest that life and practice would make it impossible for the police to work at all, and they say that they delivered the report on the basis of the next one, which is that the informed conversation was made during the eyewitnesses at the scene, informed the state's attorney, etc. Of course it's contrary to the law because every one of us, who should actually be the basis of the law that was prescribed at this point, should be taken to a room where there's a video surveillance system, you have to offer each one a lawyer or a defender, you can accept it or not, but the police can no longer question you or ask anything else if you're not in the capacity of a suspect and that's what the underlying problem is. In view of the report I and the age of the MUP, they say that a informed conversation on the circumstances of the accident took place when carrying out the eyewitnesses. It's the opposite of the law and it's something that unfortunately can happen to each of us. And I'm gonna stop there because I don't have anything else to say anymore. It was our intention to go back to that part, which is that we can't do a procedure so strictly and formally because we don't know who the suspect is at that point. And I'm going to give another example, here's a situation that the president pointed out yesterday, which is that the person illegally crossed the border 40 times, 40 times that he was in Croatia, 40 times he was arrested, 40 times not registered, 40 times not detained by the Croatian police, so we allowed him to regularly do those trips even though he committed a crime of course illegal border crossing, but here you see this is a situation which, of course, should be by the rules, which is to be according to the Schengen code and according to the laws on the control of the state border. Not picked up by Slunj or Chabra and sent back to BiH and pushed him across the border, but you must carry out the full procedure prescribed by the rules they write in the law. Here on my side so much, the best intention was to enable and help the police to do their job more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146354	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ostojić. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Prime Minister, please, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146355	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. So the Government is, I would say right at the beginning disagrees with this proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Procedure Act and we suggest that this proposal be not accepted. Namely, following the obligation to bring domestic criminal legislation into line with the EU acquis, i.e. the transposition into Croatian legislation among other provisions of the directive, which Mr Ostojic also speaks of. Since 22 October 2013, such a directive has been entitled to access by a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in proceedings under the European Arrest Order and the right to inform third parties in the event of the withdrawal of freedom and communication with third parties in the follow-up I will only talk about the Directive, the Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, and has been amended and added to Article 208 of that Article, which was spoken by Agent Ostojić, Articles 208a. And 208b, so '17. A year. By amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, the article has been amended in such a way that Article 208 is meaningfully divided into three parts. The basic 208th prescribes the collection of police information from citizens about the offence committed. 208a. Prescribing the investigation of suspects by the police, it is an examination and Article 208b. prescribes a way of collecting information from persons found at the scene of a criminal offence with elements of violence or crime that poses a threat to public security and has knowledge of the circumstances of the conduct of the crime and of the perpetrators. The report collection phase by the police is of great importance for the further course of the proceedings as it leads to the discovery of evidence to be used in the criminal proceedings and can ultimately result in a conviction for a criminal offence. Therefore, it is very important that every suspect from the moment from which he exists, there are fundamental doubts that he has committed a criminal offence to teach about his rights and the possibility of effective use of these rights and that any treatment against the suspect is fully legal at this stage of the proceedings and is implemented with full respect for the rights of defence in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act. It is precisely for that reason that the proposal submitted cannot be accepted since, by applying the provision of Article 208, it is not possible to accept it. The law on criminal proceedings in the proposed way would not be possible to ensure compliance with all the procedural rights of the suspects, which are an additional guarantee of the legality of police conduct. I would like to point out that the adoption of the proposal in question would be in conflict with the provisions of the directive, since it is proposed that certain persons suspected of having committed a criminal offence and against whom police are taking action for the purpose of resolving and doubting what is undoubtedly the status of suspects as citizens of whom information is collected because they have knowledge of a certain criminal offence or to allow informed talks with suspects, which is unacceptable in terms of the provision of the directive. So, in an important standard, we are rising,.../incomprehensible/... procedural laws in the criminal sphere, then we are aware that we are entering the rules under which the criminal proceedings have been carried out since the beginning, so from the detection of the crime, the collection of evidence, the collection of evidence at the stage of the investigation, and finally before the court of the assessment of these evidence. All these stages must respect the high standards laid down by our Constitution, the high standards of the Charter of Protection of Human Rights and, therefore, legality, which means precise regulation of the Criminal Procedure Act which has been the rights of the suspect since the moment he is not important formally, that is, when he really gets the status of the suspect, which means that he is first asked in any way about a concrete act from.../incomprehensible/... doubt about him. At this point, he has the right not to charge himself, he has the right to professional assistance and he who conducts the procedure, even if it is the police must provide him with it. Everything else would be a violation of his rights, and on the other hand, the kind of benefit we would benefit from it would soon fall because that evidence would be declared illegal in the course of the proceedings. So no effect, and we're doing damage. So these are the reasons why we believe that something unprincipled would be done and at this point illegal if this legal solution were accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146356	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, is not present. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146357	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable State Secretary, namely this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure, proposed by counterpart Rank Ostojic, will not support the HDZ Club. As we have heard the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the club of representatives and it is interesting to hear that the motion also calls for the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013, and the opinion is precisely that such adoption of the bill would violate the law and that this bill is essentially in conflict with the provisions of the same directive. We heard that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of 2017 was just then Article 208. The law on criminal proceedings has been amended in such a way that it is meaningfully divided into three provisions. So Article 208a, 208a, 208b, let's not repeat everything we've heard from the government's representative of the Honorable Secretary of State. These changes represented a major twist in relation to the so-called so-called ‘. a traditional model of collecting information from persons suspected of being perpetrators of a particular criminal offence. Thus, until the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of persons suspected of being a perpetrator of a criminal offence, the right to counsel as well as other laws prescribed only at the time of their arrest, which was normally carried out when there was already a high degree of suspicion that this person had committed a criminal offence. The above amendments require each suspect to take any action with the purpose of proving and eliminating his involvement in the criminal offence that the police are required to ensure that all the rights laid down by law and the right to an attorney are guaranteed, in order to ensure, at the earliest stage of police action, the right of such a person from self-indiction. Just questioning suspects is not a evidence store but an autonomous police authority that police are taking during performances and to clarify the suspicions that exist in relation to the suspect. Whether the suspect's interrogation will be evidence, depends on the decision of the competent state attorney's office as well as on the quality of the action carried out, which is an additional motive for the police to carry out the interrogation as high as possible. In accordance with Article 202(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The 2008 Criminal Procedure Act is a person suspected of having committed a criminal offence and against whom the police and the State's attorneys are taking action to clarify and doubt and precisely because the collection of information from citizens and the interrogation of persons as suspects are two different procedural situations that require different arrangements. We could hear and have the attached opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where it notes that under the terms of the examination, any examination of suspects on the circumstances of the crime and in connection with the criminal offence, while under preliminary examination, we consider ourselves to be identifying identity, traffic control, weapons possession checks and the like. The government of the Republic of Croatia also points out that, in essence, accepting such a proposal would be in conflict with the provisions of the directive, since it is proposed that certain persons suspected of having committed a criminal offence and against whom the police take action for the purpose of resolving and doubting what is undoubtedly the status of suspects are treated as citizens of whom information is collected because they have knowledge of a certain criminal offence or to allow informed talks with suspects, which is unacceptable in terms of the provisions of the directive. The report collection phase by the police is of great importance for the further course of the proceedings as it leads to the discovery of evidence to be used in the criminal proceedings and can ultimately result in a conviction for a criminal offence. Therefore, it is very important that every suspect, from the moment on which basic suspicions exist, learn about his rights to enable the effective use of these rights and make sure that any treatment against the suspect at this stage of the proceedings is fully legal and implemented with full respect for the defence rights in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act and, as we have heard from the esteemed State Secretary and in accordance with the Constitution. Following all of this, the HDZ Club cannot support this Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146358	I thank my colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear in itself and in the way that we function and criminal proceedings, and we see how actions are conducted in our justice system so that things don't work. So that's what lawyers are talking about, and that's what those who, of course, are dissatisfied with our judiciary, and that's what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are talking about. So it's obvious that we have processes and procedures that last over 10 years. We have situations where people in a particular situation have admitted to committing a crime, we've read the Fimi Media case 10 years ago, and now here it is that people have been showing that they've been pulling money from the MUP for various agencies, from the Ministry of Transport doing fictional films, doing certain things, giving statements that were later becoming illegal. And they couldn't end up being used as evidence, mostly what I'm saying is that unfortunately in our judiciary and the whole situation about certain crimes that are very often related to the conduct of public duty, not that there is non-transparency and disorder, but that is simply not arranged in a way to be effective, to be quick. How is it possible, for example, that someone is giving evidence that as minister, he praised former Prime Minister Sanader that he had done his job first, pulled out a new one through the Fimi Media, and then he continued to deal with politics as if nothing had happened, the case has been going on for 10 years, there is no law that would speed up such proceedings, which would allow the judiciary, what kind of trust of Croatian citizens in our institutions, what kind of trust in politics it is, and now that fellow Ostojic is proposing a law that would speed up such procedures, which would allow the judiciary to be more effective, that those who have sinned for certain things are previously sanctioned, HDZ does not accept it. HDZ doesn't accept that. So, not a single proposal of the type that would allow them, so look at the situation also with the former president of HGK, but people have slowly forgotten these cases, so it's been six years almost since the start of the procedure, nothing happened. So there's a whole series of procedures, a whole series of irregularities that have happened, a whole series of policy-related situations, which, due to an unadjusted, inefficient system, led to these procedures not ending for more than 10 years, eventually eaten by a donkey wolf, and nothing ultimately answered. And now I'm saying, one change is proposed that will lead to more efficiency, no solutions are proposed as we now see that he has proposed that an independent candidate, Skoro, be taken away from all assets, that is so-called. A bomb solution for a one-time administration, for using a pardon, for a pre-election campaign. Now that people have started asking questions about how he's doing business with the state, with the ministries, etc., now he's turned around and proposing that something new revolutionary be done in the property, too bad he didn't propose it in 2007. When he was an HDZ representative and was an official and was involved in the campaign, he hugged and went around with Ivo Sanader in the campaign, it seems to me that his name was Let's move on or something, those who participated then on the side of the HDZ know that. But I want to tell you, so we need solutions that will speed up the proceedings that are before the courts, allow the judiciary to be effective in not using various kinds of things, I would say, the holes in the law that then lasts forever, the people who are indictees, the suspects, after all, use the possibility that they once gave testimony in one way or another, that's an illegal piece of evidence, I say once again, so we've read and watched even on YouTube all those statements that were related to the Fami Media, people have confessed to the crimes, in the end nothing happened, we've pulled more than 30 million kunas for the 2007 HDZ campaign. and to no one, the money is not returned, Sanader is only now given some first verdict, but not for this case, but for, for, in the case of INA, nothing happens and normal that people have no confidence, it is normal for such actions and to stimulate some officials who are not turned to the public interest as we are now seeing in the last days, about Minister Kustević and others, that people are not afraid at all, there is no problem, there will be no sanctions, there will be neither moral nor political response, so they do not accept, they do not accept at all what Croatian citizens clearly see that, that it is not normal or morally, they do not accept that, that there is no part of responsibility, it has nothing to do with either criminal law nor anything but simply those most basic actions and responsibility that everyone should accept for their actions are not accepted. That's why we're where we are and that's why, unfortunately, here's why I have to say no matter what Friday is, and there's no voting, that it's amazing that we have so many laws on the agenda that we're not arguing that we're going to end today before the 11th session, so it's not, I would say in some way not right towards Croatian citizens, instead of working out, to solve the problems of Croatian citizens, we have some dynamics that simply determines the ruling coalition which, of course, does not satisfy Croatian citizens, so why didn't you put the 5 laws that the opposition has on the agenda today and that, to discuss it, to sort it out, but to go one by one. This, in a way, was put in place as a rule one week after the vote Friday, if there is no vote it will end before and in the end here will be almost until 11 o'clock. We could today, there are 20 more, 30 laws proposed by the opposition, we could discuss them 5, and it might not be bad to be a practice in the future, and it might not be bad for you to accept proposals from the opposition as well as from fellow Ostojić, which will allow the criminal law to be more effective, to be faster and to in some way restore trust with Croatian citizens who have lost to the Croatian judiciary, in Croatian politics, and we see that from day to day amazing things are learned, this information to be said in certain business activities, so that, if one representative had an agreement with the church that, in order to equip their student home is something that was in creativity surpassed by all the former HDZ officials, so that, in order to say in certain business activities, so that, we would simply make sure that all of them would not return to their student home, but to be able to be able to develop our own rights and to ensure that we do not have the rightful people, so that we are left by someone, or someone who is left to stay with the rightful people, who are left to be left to be left to be able to be able to stay, but to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do to stay, to do to do to do to do to do, to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to beable At least they should be. [[Employer: A colleague of Maras]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Developed Democracy [[Employer: A colleague of Maras]] I'm asking you to act like one. [[/Intruder: Please just a little.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146360	Comrade Maras, I have already warned you, I have warned you to stick to the subject and the agenda and now once again I ask you to stick to the subject or point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146361	Okay, I thought, I mean it's all a subject, when we talk about criminal...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146362	You have, you'll have the right after the debate today to present the club's position and then you can speak a little bit wider, and now please stick to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146363	Okay, I mean thank you very much, I think you will understand that all of your colleagues and colleagues that it is impossible to touch a segment such as a criminal procedure, not to touch the whole situation around the judiciary and what is bothering our fellow citizens, which is the inaction of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, injustice and inequality of all before justice. So people expect us to make such legislation that will allow justice, equality of all before Croatian laws, and what is most important is relatively fast achievement and justice, or that it is resolved at certain time intervals that are acceptable, and not that it extends for years and of course I support the proposal sent by my colleague, Ranko Ostojić, because this is exactly going in this direction and I call on the MPs to also support him when the government has not supported him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146364	Thank you. We have a replica, dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146365	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you were talking here about that most of us don't want to discuss your laws, I think we discuss every week at least 2 to 3 of your laws in opposition I remember the time when you sat here as a minister and we here in opposition, led the government, etc., we haven't been able to discuss any of our 20 proposals in 4 years, not one, not the most ordinary declaration on the Pelješke Bridge, let alone anything else, means that they've improved the time no matter what you're talking about it, even the Rules of Procedure allowed you to put certain points on the agenda yourself, so that's not true. And as for the fact that you notice everything in some other camp, etc., well, we have a lot of problems in the judiciary, I don't know when this case of the former Sisak mayor will be solved anymore, she's your colleague, I haven't seen it hurt you very much, nor that you insist on it ends quickly because I don't know if it's going to end at all, so I don't even know if it's even started the case, and if it's going to end at all, but one of your former mayor Vukovar, if we remember, see, justice immediately caught him, served him, and you put him on the head of the SDP county board, didn't bother you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146366	Thank you. Comrade Boric, it seems that you did not listen to me when I warned my colleague Maras about the topic and the point of the agenda, so I ask you to stick to the topic in the future, please welcome your colleague Maras answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146367	Thank you very much. So I don't think you should take things as something moved, I'm telling you fellow Boric, it's 10 to 11, now it's gonna end the session and it's over. Which is why it hasn't been put on yet, which is why we haven't put in a dozen points to discuss it today, which is what I'm talking about today, I'm not talking about what happened 5 or 10 or 20 years ago. So I'm saying what our responsibility and our job is, I want to do it. You HDZ obviously don't want to do this and that's what's problematic for me. As for what you mentioned earlier, Sabo is obviously the only man who will ever be responsible for such a case, it is known who patented it in the Republic of Croatia to say, in the way you rule in the units of local self-government, so Sabo was responsible for something that didn't happen and your colleagues and colleagues won't answer. Because for 20 years, they systematically abuse [[Attack Brkić: A colleague of Maras, you're out.]] I would say the laws of the Republic of Croatia, ruling locally, in the way that this... [[Upadica Brkić: A colleague of Maras.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146368	Comrade Maras, I would ask you to be polite and stick to the weather, I have already warned you once and I ask you to behave in accordance with this House of Commons. We move on to the closing word on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146369	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. In Article 208, which was adopted in 2017, I submitted the amendment in March 2018, already in 2019, for a year and a half, it says that police can collect information from citizens. In the collection and notification of citizens, it cannot be questioned as witnesses or witches. This is what I'm saying for the reasons that my intention and you've seen, I've been a pronounist myself for exactly why I've been trying to avoid connoting here the SDP now has a proposal and we're going to say no, and it's nice to explain again on the Justice Committee among people who are obviously much more permanent and professional as a proposal, but here's the government, and it can't accept and refuse, and I'm going to try again on a practical example to explain why these proposals went both with a favorite and for the benefit of the police. So I can agree with anything, let's say, what your colleagues were saying in your explanation. But the suspect's substrate is the main problem here. The thing is, we don't know who the suspect is at that point. I told you, two people go through traffic lights, crashes, who's the suspect? Is the suspect actually a person who is located and now you can be sure 100% that, so you have a kidnapper, has kidnapped someone in the house, has a weapon, etc., and at that point what happens practically? There is practically a situation that the police must not talk to this person because he is definitely a suspect, I hope that we will agree that this person is a suspect and that it is clear that he is committing a criminal act, at that point the police negotiator has no right to collect information and information from that person even via a megaphone or phone for the reason that the person must be brought in on the basis of the same Article in 208 as a suspect, recorded audio-video, must be offered to him by the defender, etc. In that sense, I have proposed amendments. The change wasn't going after anything but that situation and the variant of trying to figure out the reality of the life that police officers are in. At which point they can't assess who's guilty, who isn't. You have another case, you have a person in a bar, a shooting, it happened, a body lying there, a gun, can you say, at that moment with certainty, that this person who even herself says that she shot that man, that she didn't do it in self-defense? You don't know. You can't know if it's the one who's taking the gun trying to destroy the tracks, you can't know the situation that's actually going on whose gun it is. Therefore, this variant of such strict provisions will lead us to the situation that cases as unfortunately fall many others for formal reasons precisely because at that moment there is no idea what the suspect means. This is how we led ourselves to absurdities, that in a situation where we have definitely a suspect, the conversation wasn't conducted in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, we had suspicion of serious bodily injury, the police made an eyewitness in the middle of the road, didn't finish the story, etc. and, of course, we will have, as in many other cases, the infamous completions of court proceedings, and therefore it will not be the police's fault, but we in the House who do not realize that there is one reality and there are some provisions in which we can participate, in which it does not matter which party someone proposes it, but it is the matter of trying to help those who do this work and collect information. Here's so much on my side, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146370	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ranka Ostojić. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank State Secretary Juri Martinovic for taking the government's and counterpart Ranko Stojic's view of the bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Since we have exhausted all points of the agenda for today, there is no vote today. Based on Article 249 and we have the opportunity to present the views of the club representatives, since there are no applications, I conclude work for today's work and report to you that we continue working on Tuesday, 9 July at 9:30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on Credit Institutions, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 660. And I thank you for a pleasant rest of the day. Session interrupted at 10:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-05-0.u146371	Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 322. The promoter is representative Ranko Ostojić, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act is not adopted. I find that with 78 votes in favour and 30 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. We came to the end of the free speech debate, so now we move to agenda, first item today: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 660 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, the esteemed Zdravko Zrinašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
