ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Before you is the Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports. This is the EU's first legislative act, which specifically refers to ports, the length of its adoption for approximately 10 years, shows all the diversity of seaport operations in Europe. Those regulations, which is a binding and directly applicable legislative act, at EU level, seek to establish a single legislative framework in the field of financing and charging of port services in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. This draft draft law shall lay down the competent authority, the procedure for the resolution of complaints and complaints and formal complaints, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, and the reporting by the European Commission of the same, the way in which the port users and other stakeholders are consulted, the way in which the port managing authorities' decisions are to be published, and the provisions on infringements of the Regulation are to be laid down, i.e. by all necessary measures to ensure that the provisions of the Regulation are implemented. The relevant regulation applies only to ports, trans-European transport networks, which operate with more than 0,1% of the total burden or total number of EU passengers or improve the regional availability of the island or peripheral areas, and, in accordance with the said regulation and this law in the Republic of Croatia, to the following ports, Rijeka, Pula, Sibenik, Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik and Ploče. And finally, I would like to stress that by taking effect on this law, it will create assumptions for the effective implementation of the regulation in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132358	Thank you, we have one replica, dear colleague Bunjac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132359	Thank you, well-respected Minister, I don't know if you know it, but there is a very great resistance, on Peljesac citizens of the construction of the ferry port of Perna, about it has already been made a whole series of initiatives, we also have a Facebook page and website, people write daily, they oppose the concreteisation of the coast in the length of, as far as I understand 450 meters in the populated part of Orebić. They complain that the whole project has been designed to satisfy the president of the HDZ Club of Representatives, to which it fits on the other side, therefore, that line, in Korcula, there will be an port that corresponds to its own interests. So how do you comment on this rebel citizens and have had the opportunity to move that location of the port, when other studies are made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132360	Thank you, we have a breach of our rules of procedure, Comrade Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132361	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Bunjac has been injured by an officer. ... The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, caused by nothing, demeans me personally because of the construction of the port of Perna on Peljesac, na u, due to Orebic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Citing how the port is being built, the president of the HDZ Representatives' Club could come to Korcula more easily. So you'd just say it's a rough lie and insinuation, given that the location... ports established long before Branko Bacic became club president and parliamentary representative at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132362	Thank you. All right, this is one situation that's really controversial, because you accused a man of something without any arguments, so I won't give you a warning, nor will I give my colleague Bacic a warning, because it's really something that you didn't argue with, and you accused him and I don't think it's correct. Here you go, buddy Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative, through the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we finance a whole series of construction ports in the Adriatic, so far seven such grant contracts have been signed, somewhere worth about 200 million kuna. Most of the time, in 100% of the cases are applicants of these projects of the county port administration and then the ministry, of course, looking at whether there is enough spatial planning documentation or whether there is a building permit that could build such a port and, of course, what is the basic condition that is in the function of island integration, we approve such projects. If there is any problem in the field, we in cooperation with the county port administration or with the mayor or anyone who wants to talk, of course our doors are open, we have not yet approved the financing of that port, if [[Intruder: Thank you Ministers]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132364	We're going to the Committee's reporters now. Would one of the Committee rapporteurs like to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening the debate, first up is my colleague Branko Bačić, HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132365	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow representatives, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Law implementing the European Parliament and Council Regulation establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of the port. This proposal, as the Minister said, creates assumptions for the proper and effective implementation of this Regulation, which wishes to establish a single legislative framework at EU level in the field of financing and charging of port services, which is directly applicable from 24 March 2019. in all EU Member States. As the minister also said, this law, i.e. the regulation itself, applies to ports whose turnover must be more than 0.1% of the total burden or total number of EU passengers, and that would mean that in the Republic of Croatia only refers to ports of national importance, which are Rijeka, Pula, Sibenik, Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik and Ploče. Thus, we cannot speak here today, i.e. the regulation itself does not apply to a number of other ports, both those of county importance and ports of local importance. This Regulation establishes certain frameworks for the award of concessions in the port area, and then provides for the possibility to lodge complaints on concession procedures. It also seeks to achieve a certain level of competitiveness among port service providers in terms of preventing a dominant position. It is also possible to make complaints about the work of the service provider. It also partially refers to the fact that unauthorized state aid outside the public sector is not allowed. A lot of this has been covered by different laws, and now here it only refers to ports. Namely, this Regulation lays down the competent authority, which is the Ministry of Maritime Affairs or the Ministry of the Sea, provisions for infringements for... The regulations and procedures for resolving complaints and complaints shall be laid down by means of consultation with the port users and other stakeholders and shall determine how the decisions of port managing authorities are to be published. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only the port manager's body is the port administration, in particular the state port administrations in Rijeka, Pula, Sibenik, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik and the boards which are prescribed how and how the managing body has concessions, has and manages the port itself. It is clear that when it comes to the handling of the port administration, when it comes to the management of the Board itself and the director of the port administration itself, it is clear that there is a Law on maritime good and seaports in the Republic of Croatia which is defined by law and how they act under certain circumstances and in those whose regulation is competent, administrative councils or port administrations. In this regard, we expect that we will quickly witness how the Government in HS will refer the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports to which we will establish both in accordance with this Regulation and in accordance with new circumstances in all ports of national importance, and in other ports in the Republic of Croatia, a system of port management, and in the case of concessionaires, but also in the case of freightes, i.e. passengers and maintenance of port infrastructure and port superstructures. What may even be important to say, when we talk about the ports to which this regulation is referred, then we must say, therefore, that these ports are generally on, initial or final, depending on how they are viewed, certain corridors, whether they are European corridors, whether they are ports located on important roads in the Republic. What he would add is that there are 9 transport corridors in Europe, 3 of them refer to the Republic of Croatia, so the fifth corridor, for example the fifth corridor, which starts or ends in Rijeka, the fifth C that starts or ends in the Plots, the tenth corridor that is the fourth corridor that passes through the Republic of Croatia, the transverse corridor and one single river corridor of Europe, that is the seventh corridor that practically represents the Danube River and that passes through Vukovar. So, of these most important points, the most important transport corridors, we in the Republic of Croatia are participating on 3 corridors, which then leaves the possibility and clearly, to facilitate the financing of all projects by either those in the Rijeka system, or not in the railway system, or those in the road system. Therefore, this regulation is also important from this fact that we are talking about ports that are mainly on important European or national corridors. The Minister replied in the replica just a moment ago to the fact that when we talk about the port system, although it does not specifically refer to these 5,6 ports mentioned, it is the project of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure which refers to improving the traffic connection of Croatian islands, which enables the project to build a brand new port or construction of existing ports which are the functions of the transport connection of Croatian islands, so it is mentioned earlier, I do not know what caused the colleague of Bunjca port Perna, the port that is on the Peljesac peninsula, which is one of the ports which the county port administration nominated to the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure that the means of the European funds would build a completely new port because the existing port in the center of Orebić, in the center of Orebić, is absolutely inappropriate since in the summer months the Ministry of the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure in which is really important in the region is the new. But it is not only this port, when we talk about the construction of ports in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, there are also other ports both on Korčula and on Lastovo and on Pelješac. I therefore also welcome the adoption of this law on the one hand, but on the other hand, and the projects this ministry is doing when it comes to building a port system in the Republic of Croatia, especially that part of the port system which is a function of ship, maritime transport towards Croatian islands and contributes to a better transport connection between the Croatian islands. The HDZ advocates' club will support this law as proposed by the government, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132366	Thank you. Before we go any further, please welcome the students and students of the Mixed Industrial and Turning School from Karlovac, welcome. Now you should speak individually to your colleague, Maras, but he is not in the assembly, so he loses his right to speak. [[Applause.]] Then we're going to another debate and that's colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132367	Thank you very much, President. Dear Ministers and colleagues, we are talking about the implementation of the regulation on the law of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2017. So we're establishing a framework, now a colleague of Bacic's has spoken, which through the regulation Croatia is obliged to implement. However, when we talk about ports, it is well to mention the current state of what is happening to our ports where strategic ports such as the Gaženica port where Croatia has invested together with the road connected more than 2 billion kunas,... The Peljeski bridge, which is essentially 30 years old, is a Turkish company for 20, i.e. at 20 years for 30 million kuna which means a million-and-a-half kuna the entire port went to the Turks where the Croatian state invested means 2 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about 2 billion kunas then we talk about the connection of the road from the highway to the direct port, Zadar port is as important as many other ports. But until today, we have a thematic session, we don't know what about the contract that the ministry has forced and pushed in the interest of the Turkish company, it's probably also the port administration down in Zadar, or who's running it all, county. They're asking the question of Zadar, which is why something where the state has invested 2 billion and 200 million kunas given to someone in a concession for 20 years, a million and a half kuna a year? The question is why the Croatian state is doing it and why it is working against the interest and the end, Zadar County and our country because there are huge investments down there, here the minister will testify that the investments below are huge in a very important strategic port located in the center of the Adriatic, that is the Zadar port that is needed. Transport infrastructure, only in traffic on the Zadar II compound, has been invested somewhere around 600 million kuna. So billions in half kuna are invested somewhere, a billion and 600 to build the port of Gaženica and plus this road which is essentially a link on the highway, which is in a strategic position, which is connected to all roads. He told counterpart Bačić earlier that the 3 most important means traffic corridor Croatia is cutting but Zadar and Gazenica port is very important for the Republic of Croatia and for no reason, I did not get an answer, we had the thematic session below, and county councils and city councils and are asking all questions about how the mayor, how to manage the port, how the ministry, we had the the thematic session where the minister was not, I am glad that today, to answer us why 2 billion kuna, how will be controlled there, 'will there be sold perhaps domestic products on those ships for which we built that port where the cruises would come in, how did you control it? Who's going to affect that? Will it increase the standard below for people, our citizens, in terms of investment? Here I would ask the minister what happened to the port of Gazenica, with the concession, which is why such a small amount of Turkish owners who had purposed to go to Dubrovnik in an unmade home and did not, they did not do the job down there because apparently local self-government realized that they had no good intentions and here you gave 2 billion and 200 million kunas invested in the port, you gave someone a million and a half kuna per year to 20.30 million kuna. So give an answer here to the public of Dalmatia, the Zadar County whose interests are because simply here as if the money had gone mostly somewhere under the table. Well, we can't give for a million and a half kuna a year somewhere we invested, 2.5 billion kuna. 2 billion and 200 million kuna. It's a huge complex, it's the most significant, it should be the main development project of the entire county and that the profits are drawn by a foreign Turkish company. Here I would ask you to answer, this is what I ask for both the public and the thematic session I have called, where the County Council of Zadar County and the City Council, which have asked questions about these questions, we have not received an answer to today. Which is why Turkish companies have opted against the public interest of Zadar, Zadar County and the Republic of Croatia, because Zadar port is a strategic port, I repeat, invested in it as well as in the Pelješka Bridge, and was given to someone a year for a million and a half kuna, a foreign investor, an old one. Not an investor, but a concession was given to a foreign owner, 30 years old. Which is why you gave the Turks for free to manage something where the Croatian state invested 2 billion and 200 million kunas of its own money. Answer this not for the sake of Mira Bulja, but for the public, Dalmatia, Zadar County and all of Croatia, because our sea and our ports are important for the development of Croatia, not for someone to draw money from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132368	We have two replicas, the first respected colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bulj, the question you ask, I also asked at one of the sessions, or on the current watch of Minister Butkovic, I did not get an answer. So for a year and a half, it can't be known, which is why the port of Gazenica, in which the state, which is the Croatian citizens, has invested 1.6 billion kuna, if we exclude all those investments and the roads present, if we count all the other investments that are tied to the port, then we come exactly to this amount that you said 2 billion, and the port is in concession and from whose contract is very visible and clear, that these 2 billion kuna, even a tenth of that amount, will not be paid during the period to which the port is given in the concession. However, in Zadar, unfortunately, this is not the first and only case, where something that has been built or only by contributions or taxpayers' money is given to privates, in fact, to invaluable.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132370	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132371	A fellow Glasovac that, down there are a lot of political options active, asking council members in the county these questions and city councils, you've set up here, I've asked for the thematic session of the Committee on... which was held, but we didn't get an answer, which is why something with the infrastructure invested 2 billion and 200 million in the height of the Peljega Bridge, which is why it was given to 30 million per 20 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's literally in Zadar, several cafes, so much rent a year to rent. Whoever put the mustache on, we ask. Where is the money, which is why the state invested that money, so that the Turks would take money, which was not desirable in Dubrovnik, who are these people? Who shot those people? So what's this county minister for? Who's the hitter? That's what the question is, which I'm not asking, here's a colleague, and a number of our other county councilmen and people at the local level, but we don't get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132372	Now let's go to another replica, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132373	Comrade Bulj, if you followed what was happening in the tender process, then you could see that a tender for the terminal concession was published twice. So the entire space did not get in the concession of the Turkish company, therefore, is also a port of state importance, and the port administration of Zadar has published a contract on the sites, where you can see it very well, where there is a variable and fixed part, where it is intended to be... the port, therefore, that this is where the boarding takes place, that it is the supply of complete ships, which have at least 5,000 people on each ship and should be talked about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the concessionary here at the terminal, takes all the costs of maintaining the terminal. And you can see that nicely in the contract itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132374	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132375	You were on the Transport Committee, it was me, and there were people, i.e. Councilors, county, city councilmen, who encouraged it. The fact is that none of us have received the question, which is why the concession has been given to something that has been invested in a key facility, 2 billion kunas, a key strategic port in the Republic, is given to Turks, who will have a huge profit and which will not be at these terminals... The cruiser will promote the Croatian lamb in your back, not safely, in the hinterland of Zadar or kilograms, but there will be a Turkish lamb, which will not promote Croatian interests, but Turkish interests, believe me that Turkish interests will be affected by the interest of Zadar, Zadar County, and someone here has given the mustache. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 2 billion and 200 million kuna for a million and 600 a year, we will give in concession. For one strategic project, well it's a disaster, we're just asking the minister for an answer, which is why such a small amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132376	Thank you. We don't have any more replicas, so we're going to a new debate, individual, colleague Branko Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132377	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I spoke on behalf of the Club in general about this law implementing a European directive through Croatian maritime legislation and directly concerns the functioning of the port system in Croatia. At that time, I said that it was good and that as soon as possible in the Croatian Parliament, and the ministry is working intensively to adopt a proposal for a Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, which will develop other obligations among other things, will prescribe the other obligations that all participants in the port sector, including in this sense, and in the port administration, not concerning this proposal of the Law. It is true that this regulation could be implemented in certain ports, and ports must meet the minimum criteria, which is that 0.1% of total traffic takes place in them, either... any travellers across the EU, and then this applies in a sub-region to both Rijeka and Pula and Zadar and Sibenik and Split and Dubrovnik and Ploče. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this context it is possible to speak clearly of.../incomprehensible/... aspects, not only of those to which this law is referred but also of other aspects of the operation of the port system. In 1995, the port system was established in Croatia by the Law on Seaports, which is prescribed by law by law by the port administrations as state agencies operating the port infrastructure, and on the other hand there are concessionaries who are necessary participants in the port system because the state is generally nowhere in the world, so there is no need to deal with economic activities in Croatia either. It manages, it prescribes criteria, and then leaves certain activities on the market, primarily port activities, but also other economic activities carried out by concessionaires and through its kind of management, through the competition it seeks to make this fee to carry out port activities lower to make final users, which are shippers, these are forwarders, these are passengers, if you will, these are all users of services in the port system, so that those concessionists who have received the public tender can do that service as cheaply as possible. It is all over the world prescribed and it is the Croatian state still there in the '90s. for years determined how and how the port system will be managed in Croatia. And it is extremely well arranged in Croatia, there are port administrations as bodies that care about port infrastructure. This infrastructure is especially when it relates to the port system extremely expensive. The most expensive is to build in the sea, there is not a single investment that costs a certain amount of work as expensive as seawork. So in this sense, I'll just mention, in these six national ports that I just cited, the Republic of Croatia has been conducting extremely expensive projects for years, including Gaženica, but if we're going to start from the north then it's at the port of the GT project where the investment is even bigger than the one in Gaženica for the construction of the container terminal and on Brajdica and the other on the Zagreb coast. To implement the project Gazenica, the project around EUR 210 million, EUR 220 million, which involves the complete construction of a huge port that is practically on, directly connected to the highway with the railway and that port is also located in the top area of the Adriatic centre and has a huge potential for development. But Gaženica is not only a passenger terminal which is concentrated on this concessionary and which has received concession only for this passenger terminal, but is gaženica much more than that, Gaženica is a fishing port, Gaženica is a freight port, Gaženica is primarily a port that is in the function of transporting the island of Zadar County and which has made it possible to connect Croatia's and the island in Zadar County even better. Therefore, this section relating to Gaženica, which my colleague Bulj said was a concession for the use of the passenger terminal million, I do not know exactly how much he said, but the exact amount of 1,628,000 is not the only fee to be paid by the concessionaire that is far from his obligations that he will have to pay to the state when the concession contract is fully effective and the activity is carried out. Because there's talk and more, it's a fixed part, that's what he has to pay, business, business, business bad, business good, he's going to have to pay that fee to the port administration, that's the income of the port administration, which then that income will be able to invest in still raising new content in the port administration itself. It is already required to pay a variable share of 12% of the total income that it generates in the terminal, when it comes to port activities and 6% when it comes to other economic activities that the concessionary will deal with. And what he will pay must be returned to the port sector, the port administration cannot dispose of those means as it will but they must be in a position to further improve the quality of the port infrastructure in the port of Gazenica. Furthermore, we worked at the port of Sibenik, which is also the port to which this law applies, a project was designed to build a passenger terminal on Vrulje, which is, which enables the construction of a passenger terminal to be boarded today by huge large cruises and thus raise the tourist offer of Sibenik itself, and also contributes to further new financial resources both in the port and in the entire city of Sibenik and the county, because it is known how many and how one passenger who comes on the cruise around 70 EUR daily uses in the port he comes to. The new projects are in the port of Split, Split is built with a number of new tents, thus improving the operation, operation of the port itself, both those city, ferry ports and northern ports. A huge project is being done in the port of Ploče, the integration of trade and transport in the port of Ploče again, by colleagues Bulj it is an investment almost, almost 2 billion kuna, where a container terminal was built, where a terminal for scattered cargo is built, where a complete new entrance to the port itself is defined. And this is also a huge investment financed by state resources, by state guarantees, by both the port administrations of the state and by significant investments, for example, in the port of Ploče, a significant investment by the concessionaire himself, which is in the port of Ploče. It is difficult, it is almost impossible not only in Croatia, in any port other than in major world ports such as Shanghai, I don't know Hamburg, Rotterdam etc., to allow small traffic that can provide so much money that I am a concessionist can, just before I said to finance extremely expensive works. But in order for you to be attracted to traffic, you must, as a state, allow port infrastructure for ships to bond, to bring burdens, to bring passengers, and then to base port approaches and fees that kill the concessionary so that the port administration can build this expensive infrastructure. If the only criterion of economic justification was an economic justification which would be achieved in a short period of time by using certain port infrastructure never by any state, no port administration would have built a meter of waterfront because it is impossible to justify this in a short time without saying that the port system is encouraging.../incomprehensible/... economic development. It is said that on the 1 dollar that comes to the port of Rijeka through the container, 20 dollars realizes the entire system that is attached to that container, it was that it was Croatian highways and that it was Croatian railways, it was the freighters, it was other users of the system at the port. Therefore, when you are looking at the revenues of the port administration, this revenue would never justify an investment of building one metre of waterfront, but since it is an incentive for economic development of the entire region in which the port has its headquarters, it becomes justified each kuna built in Gazenica, in any part of the waterfront and the seaport infrastructure in Gazenica. Therefore, in order to encourage the arrival of cruisers, for example in Zadar or for instance in Dubrovnik, it was necessary to make a lot of advances, such as those making documentation, making studies, later providing public tenders with enough resources to build these ports, and when they are built, then, slowly with the smart management of that port, the burden and passengers will slowly begin. And therefore, when we look at investment in ports, it would never be justified to see how much the port administration's income is, but when we look at how much this facility, this riva, these gats bring funds to the entire sector, which is based on the port sector, then every lip invested in the port sector eventually becomes justified and because of that and the developed state and builds a port system because the port system brings traffic, brings passengers, brings kunas, brings money and all developed countries are now investing in the port system, and therefore this law, which now prescribes better treatment with concessionaries, is certainly welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132378	Thank you. Three replicas, first fellow Uncle, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132379	Thank you, president of HS, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague of Bacic's, the media recently called on the new Chinese Silk Road, i.e. the Chinese's interest in Central Europe, and to this end they plan to invest a billion and 130 million dollars in investments for the new so-called. Chinese Silk Road. In the narrow area of the Adriatic, 3 countries, 3 ports. It's a river, it's a cane, it's a swimsuit. And just about your discussion that if you were looking at the cost of building a port yourself, that they were questionable, but when you look at the broader context of traffic and that new Silk Road, after the railway to Central Europe, I think and agree with you, that every kuna is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132380	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132381	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Stričak, read about what you were talking about, are these three northern Croatian, three northern, three ports of the northern Adriatic, Trieste, Kopar and Rijeka. And the possibility that Rijeka participates on that Silk Road which is announced, that is, on that continuation of Silk Road which would now do part of maritime traffic, was previously needed to invest huge resources in the rise of port facilities, port infrastructures, that is what I said earlier, this is the project of the river GT project where two large container terminals were built, one on Brajdica, which was built and the other on.../incomprehensible/... coast and that, for example.../incomprehensible/... the coast will allow the arrival of large container ships 7 and 8 generations with 7,8 thousand containers and more practically, the wind in the back is precisely the port of Rijeka and the city of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County, and certainly all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132382	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132383	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, clearly that the port in Zadar is strategic and that investment is not only in the infrastructure around it, these roads, roads, links, it is significant. She's in the heart of our Adriatic and she's very important. However, as a whole, local council members, associations, local institutions have been warning about the intransparency of the process, where 2 billion and 200 million kuna were invested together with infrastructure in a single project that for 30 years, for 30 million, there would be a huge profit for the Turks. So this is where you're going, it's going to be just like the teleopers. A huge profit goes to foreign investors. As in energy. Wind power stations, wind parks, go to strangers, and here. And there was no answer here, nor at the the thematic session that I called for, I didn't get an answer, which is why for such small money, there is a strategic port for you to a foreign Turkish company?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132384	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132385	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj, so I think I gave you a partial answer, and more than I did, so I didn't want to refer there, said my colleague Grozdana Petric. So, there's been a competition twice for concessioning the passenger terminal. In the second competition, a future concessionaire appeared, he made the most favourable offer, the offer was made on the basis of the parameters as much as and how the income of the passenger terminal could be expected. But we can put all this aside if the port administration, which is here, said counterpart Petric on her website published a contract, an integral text of the contract, then I don't know what else should be more transparent. If necessary, it would be good for the director of the port administration to come to the very session of the Maritime Committee and introduce us to the contract that was planned there. The Rules of Procedure allow us to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132386	MP Peric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132387	Here, counterpart Bačić, therefore, 24 thousand squares is a terminal costing 24m euros and of that total space, two-thirds of the space is used by the concessionaire, and one-third of all other auxiliary public services, and the cost of maintenance is paid by the concessionaire with what is regularly defined in the contract, that the fixed annual fee is a million and 628 thousand kuna + 12% of the gross revenues of passenger traffic per passenger and 6% of the gross revenues of freight and other economic turnover of the port. So it's all extra with this million and 628 thousand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132388	Replication response
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, therefore, in my individual debate, I said that the investment of two billion kunas, which is really big, does not mean building the terminal itself in Gaženica. The term, as you yourself said, cost 100 times less, and on the other hand, he is now concessioned. However, the rest of Gazenica makes the port of Zadar strong because it has a huge number of berths, gats, serves to transport the island of Zadar County, or the island of Zadar, further, serves as a fishing port and is a strong potential for the development of Zadar and Zadar County. In this context, these two billion kunas were justified in investing in Gazenica, and this is only one segment on which a concessionaire will have to pay his obligations according to the contract which, as you yourself said, are not small, however, probably more said by the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132390	Representative Josip Boris reported on the individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132391	Thank you very much. I want to say something about the Law implementing the Regulation establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports. Here, we heard today that there are also those who advocate transparency in port management, but they are against the law, so I don't see much sense in discussing with our colleague Bulja about this topic because he probably didn't even read the name of this law. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. which clearly states what is the essence of this Regulation, means integration into the efficient transport and logistics chain of the trans-European transport network. So make of those ports that meet that basic criterion that is set, to integrate into common, means, the trans-European transport network system when we talk about maritime transport, exactly writes or elaborated in only 14 articles on which the regulation applies, meaning, the limitation of the number of port service providers where the rules are set out in which the rules should be reached about what you are talking about, then, how to resolve the tax issue, counselling, i.e. The transparency of every move made by the port manager, and then we have complaints, complaints etc., etc., everything is written inside, but then we listen to a lecture about how someone made or invested in a port of two billion kunas and someone was given it for the bad guys to manage and everything false and all false and of course, and what else, now we have to explain between us what maritime traffic means to the Republic of Croatia? When we look at several modes of traffic, it means, sea, road, air, rail, and only this sea traffic in a way works very well, i.e. Looking at what they are accomplishing in the transport of passengers and cargo, it clearly shows that every year is better than the previous year, that the system that works is set up, the system that is managed and not created for these governments, is already developing for 30 years, and has inherited some systems from the former state. So today we can say that we have 6 national ports, Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Ploče and Dubrovnik and 22 county port administrations, some of which cover the entire county on their own, and some of the counties have established individual port administrations, mainly Istrian and coastal-goran. And that's how the system was set up so that cargo and passengers could function normally. This law only further, through one regulation prescribes the rules of transparency, above all, the management of ports and areas, how to talk to someone who does not distinguish the dock, ferry ramp or ramp from the terminal or the port full of its components, that today indeed, we listen to this already here once we have listened to how someone spent the competition and did not ask someone who may or may not, but they all know in advance. What is important to say is that this government also, especially the ministry, invests large funds in that sector of county port administrations, state to one, really large part of Rijeka, means, especially freight traffic, means, two projects of Brajdica and the Zagreb coast, we heard from colleagues Bačić a section concerning the port of Ploče, Dubrovnik, Split also, Sibenik, meaning that in all ports the state invests to create conditions for this area to be used as much as possible. What are the small environments doing? They may also be trying to find better locations or to move their ports to some space that they do not happen that at a time when they are overloaded by perhaps the number of tourists or seasonal travelers who come most during the summer, there is simply a blockage of the place and is looking for solutions to remove and remove such infrastructure from the central parts of these small urban areas. What's wrong with that? Then we hear the accusations, we're not going to port here, we're not going to port there, but that system is being upgraded, so there are port administrations, there are spatial plans that define them, and there's no further, so that all of these stories, and we've heard how much investment this year, so over 200 million just from European funds and every honor, here, thank you Minister for having succeeded and this segment is pushed into the European funds programmes to fill in, that some ferry ports that may not be built in good places, like, I don't know, Con, so that maybe through enlargement, upgrade or even better infrastructure conditions as well as I don't know, let't know, let's say the line between Cohn and Biograd, so to start constantly with thinking that whatever this country is doing, it's wrong or bad, it's just more difficult to listen because there are really lawyers who are probably in the morning being dissatisfied with their state in any way, and nothing in this state, and nothing in this state that they's right, and nothing in this way that they's why they's why they's why they're going to be in the law and the law and the law that they's in the law that they're going to do. And then we hear they're against it, but angle. I say they have a million objections, but they haven't read what it's about. I mean, and the question is, why are we building at all, because we didn't have to? So, if we had everything perfectly inherited, maybe we shouldn't build something, but for us, today, for the development of the port infrastructure, and when we look at the total revenues that the port administrations already have, maybe county port administrations, they're more than they were at the moment they were founded there at the beginning of 2,000 years. Those amounts are already unrecognizable. They now manage not only the ferry ports, they manage the entire port areas, where a bit of order is introduced, and even those, I don't know small private catches or small docks or what I know we won't find on the coast and on the islands. So there's obligations, there's contractual obligations between people, there's bonds, there's payments, there's obligations, there's obligations, there's obligations, there's obligations between people, there's bonds, there's payments, there's payments, there's some kind of obligations, so that even the port infrastructure can be maintained. There's room for the system to develop. And that's why he needs to be watched divorceally, not just criticism, which is why we've done something like this or something in some way. So let's look at the airports, how much is invested in the airports, Dubrovnik, now Split, a new airport has been built here in Zagreb, etc. Well, it immediately generates a certain level of passengers more. Surely these people who do this do not create plans to build or build to create losses. But it's only worth a moment of construction, and it's in itself worth it, so there's no such thing as infrastructure. As far as it can be calculated, as much as it's brought, I don't know, building some ferry dock money, it's a question. Is that, we've been building, here in my community a new ferry port, which cost over 30 million kuna, but there's already traffic going on, which generates, I don't know, Jadrolini, meth in 2 directions that requires, I don't know some or makes money or is income somewhere 15 million kuna. Well, it's probably a port that can make it possible. If it hadn't been for such a port, there wouldn't have been a ferry, I don't know, which can drive 100 vehicles and not any such revenue. So we're looking at the infrastructure in its purpose, which is that it only provides a condition, not that it earns itself, because it can't, as it may be highways, because by going through them, we have to pay something from point A to point B. There's no profit on the not knowing, waiting plateau, but you have to have it, that there's no mess in the harbor or that doesn't happen, in the season, I say blockage, of certain urban units. In this way we need to look at the infrastructure and say, bravo or every honour to the ministry, which really is a large amount of EU funds, directed right into the port infrastructure, but also this air infrastructure, so I think we have a good rhythm in that part, that year by year, we can record better results and successes. I say, the maritime sector, by all indications, is the most stable compared to everyone else and shows from year to year better results, which means that long-term strategies have given their results, and every minister or ministry or government is there to make improvements. And when we talk about that terminal, we had one solution, which was set up in 2013 or '14. when it was claimed that the terminal was not built, but that it was a few small containers and that Luka Gagenica was working on it. Some thought it was enough. Some others said it wasn't enough, it would show time who was right. I don't doubt who was right, and I think it's for congratulating those who have worked hard on this project, because it's only for the next 10 and 15 years to show what this port can offer, not only Zadar, but the entire Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132392	Representative Glasovac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132393	Comrade Boric, in order for you not to assign me to have something against investment in the ports, I will only make it say, when we talk about the specific case of Zadar, that by the port of state interest, this port was declared by the government of Ivica Racan. The second of the 1.1 billion kuna, totaled by the end of 2015, 900 million kuna in deposited during the Zoran Milanovic government. Now let's first remove that I have something against or SDP something against investment in ports. However, the logical question arises, why is it given in a concession something where 2 billion kunas of Croatian citizens' money are invested, not only in the terminal, but also in international traffic. Can't Croatia have an interest in the port, that it oversees international transport and economic and commercial services, which are offered to the 2400 metres of square terminals in Zadar. That's what I'm curious about. Why does the state of Croatia not see interest in this area?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132394	Thank you. Representative Voter's time is up, I'd like you to stick to the deadline for the replica, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132395	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, I said, here at the end of your debate, that you wanted to solve that interest through several containers and now I don't understand why you are against it, why you are now against it, that with a clear and transparent contract, it means that it clearly says how fixed the fee is, i.e. how much the amount, which must be paid annually, plus what is realised by all the other revenues, is precisely from the concessionaires. Well, probably in about 20-30 years, that figure will probably reach the amount that might have been invested in that terminal, if not more. And he certainly didn't do it in a way that he sat down with someone and said, well, as much as you give, I give, and we're all happy. So I guess some calculations and some projections have been made, which would mean something and how much income we're satisfied with, to make it happen or to get it back in terms of when we're already investing in infrastructure. But I'm saying when you solved it through three containers, I don't think there's any need to go any further... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132396	Thank you for your response to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132397	Representative Boric has injured art. Article 238(6) Because by its conduct, which promotes lies, it violates the integrity of the Croatian Parliament, no containers, no one wanted to build in Gaženica. Today as the terminal looks, it's exactly what it's supposed to look like, and not according to your plan, how you wanted to build, how you built roads, tunnels, that half of you drink, half of you give your Charcos, you over-inflate the price. And you're handing out commissions, we've stopped it, we've got a whole.../The speaker's off./... [[Intruder Petrov: You're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132398	You've run out of time, the first breach of the Rules of Procedure has not been done, you're familiar with it, as the President of Parliament has said, that false conduct is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you, as a club, have also voted for this Rules of Procedure, so I would ask you to stick to it. Representative Shuker has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132399	... said building infrastructure was a prerequisite for something. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] If we had stuck to this as some today argue then many islands would have been practically cut off from the world, no ferry could have agreed to those islands, and the development of tourism and all that happened on the islands in the past 10, 15 years would have simply been unimaginable. So infrastructure is a prerequisite for something to be done, if someone doesn't understand it then the assumption is that containers are being placed, the assumption that someone can do better than someone, but it's very important to watch the documents and acts that are signed out of this can be seen and everything can be read.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132400	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132401	counterpart Šuker, who is just a colleague of Glasovac, says when she was in a position to decide what to do with the port of Gazenica was supporting what former Minister Hajdaš Doncic kept saying was too big and that there should be a few containers to meet the needs of the port because they only considered the primary port link with several Zadar islands, because the transport of passengers also meant cars to Gaženica from the centre of Zadar. And of course they stopped the project, we lost a few years ago, so that this project should have been over long ago, and it should have worked out already, but here this government came, and it solved, thank the Ministry and the Minister who pushed it further, and probably time would show, as it all denied them that they would deny them in these missed visions or the ways in which they should access exactly these infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132402	Infringement of the Rules of Procedures by MPs of the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132403	A colleague, Boric, injured Article 238, says he demeans either the president or the other MPs, not only me, but also all the other MPs are offended by the thesis that someone has stopped the port construction project, and all of them were at the opening where the first ferry agreed to the port. So it offends not only the agents, this one, but intelligence, simply human intelligence, stop doing it. An open port during our power you say it's stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132404	Representatives Voter, I give you a warning because you have abused the Rules of Procedure, I believe you are prepared for it as I would as an advocate to speak from the bench, but it is clear that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured. You used the Rules of Procedure to replicate, and I have to follow the rules. Representative Loncar has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132405	Thank you, Vice President, fellow Boris is not the point of this debate being a goal and what is the port at this point most important is that it will increase traffic, both passengerly and freight. As an employee of the port, I worked at the port for 14 years and I know everything in detail, but a lot of them here talk and they're not familiar with the costs she actually has. All costs that are signed at this time with and through the concession will just be in the jurisdiction of the concessionaires. And in the old days, before the Homeland War, 30 percent were just about maintaining the port, which at this point will be no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132406	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132407	Thank you very much, colleague Loncar, so all of us living daily means problems and local environments, and the port administration that lives with its problem knows what the cost and maintenance is, but simply some people don't want to understand it, and they always think that anything they say is actually the only truth and that's how it is. It is not true, everything is transparent, clearly shown contracts and everything else and since we are already having this debate in a good regulation that we implement through the law where we are just insisting on the transparency of the management of the entire port area and all the other segments, then they are against it means that it is more transparent and better and they are always talking against it, and they are pushing for transparency. So we don't understand what they really want from this law which is quite clear in only 14 articles and in each segment shows rules how to behave when the law is passed with several of our larger ports that meet these criteria that are set, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132408	Representative Miro Bulj will speak on behalf of the club MOSTA independent lists as the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132409	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, here is a regulation implementing the European, European Parliament and Council since 2017 and of course when we talk about the transparency of the ports on the rules, common rules on the financial transparency of the port, of course asking the question, how do we manage these premises, how much have been invested in this area, and I have opened the question here of the Port of Gaženica at this point in the agenda because it is a great questionnaire. A questionnaire over something because the state has invested 2 billion and 200 million, which has been exceeded by Turkish concessionaries for 20 years for 30 million kuna, which means a million and a half kuna a year. A few cafes to rent in Zadar would have a higher value for the annual respected ministers. For this reason, together with county councilors, actions of young people and MOSTA, I asked city councilors for a thematic session, because these people have been looking for years, for years they have been asked to be answered, which is why they are untransparently seeking to give in the concession of this port, a strategic port, built on maritime goods in the interest of the Republic of Croatia where profits will be obtained. As in telecommunications, the biggest profit of the minister is in the hands of a foreign teleoper, as well as in the energy sector, so now they want the right of service I have given the law to bring to the Croatian roads and to drag through Croatian roads that local self-government have less than 500 county local self-government, county road administrations, to have less than 500 million kuna per year. So in this case, which is why one investment, a strategic port, is important for the Republic of Croatia, which is invested in a billion and 600 million + 600 million in transport infrastructure in the most significant and beautiful, is given to a Turkish foreign company in the centre of the Adriatic and the profit goes to them in their pockets. Compare 2 billion and 200 million with a million and a half kuna a year, which they will give or in 20 years. 30 million kuna will be made, and the Turkish company liked it. Who's the fat guy here? So we didn't get an answer to that, this isn't a question of Mira Bulja, this is a question of local and regional politicians and peoples of Zadar and Zadar County and Dalmatia, and this question has been updated at a thematic session I initiated a year ago and we haven't received an answer. It is a significant company, this port, it has to produce development, not only of Zadar County, not only of the plains of the Sibenik hinterland and like, but also of the Dalmatian Zagora. Would I like to have our lamb on the table offered on these cruises, believe me it will be Turkish, believe me it will be all Turkish, believe me that you are pleasing foreign investors just as much as you do with energy, so today, today, you are expected to collect 30% for the economy and entrepreneurship, and 8% for ours, for the household. Why? Because foreign investors are also pulling profits in energy, in the winds... Many sources, so it will be here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Ministers, we expect you to answer to explain to us why a foreign investor of the Turkish company has been favored, a lot of highways have been invested, many times your ministry has been afraid of tunnels and afraid, you've made a lot of promises to Dalmatia on the Split Valley, in Split, in the government, numerous projects, you've promised them for years, you and your predecessors, the only thing you've been laying rock foundations, I've been giving you amendments here, I've been giving you amendments that were real, for a project... and project documentation, to start building this together with the combination of our hinterland Dalmatian Zagora and Knin and Sinj and Drniš and Imotski and... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Drvenik, none of it is there, believe me, it will only be now to come down before the elections and that you will still go to the flock that remains of the lambs instead of encouraging in the pre-elections and to pick up the lower votes, the people expect you to solve problems and development and agriculture, not guessing and... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The economy, and not favouring foreign companies like in this case, 2 billion and 200 million you gave to the Turks by a million-and-a-half, it wasn't even during the pastures when it was [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] before the attack on Sinj Turks. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132410	...it's about time... Representative Tomislav Žagar asked for the final word on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132411	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will use this final presentation on behalf of the club to point to a problem that is current and published in the press. Namely, it's about the port of Rijeka. Let me just read a few things that are important to understand what this problem is all about. Says the total traffic of Luka Rijeka d.d. It was 2 million 534 thousand 422 tonnes last year, with a decrease in traffic in the most profitable segments of business, the general burden dropped by 17%, the container traffic in the section relating to the port of Rijeka without the container terminal Brajdica and the company Jadranska vrata decreased by 16%, while wood transport was reduced by 3%. Total statistics in some ways save the scattered burden with a 7% increase, but it is generally less cost-effective than other types of cargo in the port. So, it warns of a situation that is not good at the port of Rijeka and despite the fact that the state has 25% ownership in the port of Rijeka, despite the fact that pension funds have 30% and despite the fact that the administration is under way, since the minister is here, we are interested in whether the new administration will be chosen according to the principles of expertise or will continue to be this way because according to media reports, we see that the former management led by Poljak had huge salaries, there are rows of 7.000,00 EUR + certain benefits, only he had a higher salary than the entire former administration, will the state, to say this, to the managers of the good master, to monitor what is happening at the port of Rijeka, because if this continues instead of the planned takeoff, Rijeka port could come into even more serious difficulties, Rijeka could lose certain operators there and not invest in Rijeka. Minister, while you're here, if you can comment and give us new information as to what the ministry actually can and should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132412	Representative Grozdana Peric will speak as the final word on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132413	Dear Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is important to say to all of this the way it really is, therefore, that the Port of Gaženica is a port of important national importance before, here almost 20 years ago, that it is systematically invested in a way to become, to extract part of the traffic that was happening and was very frequent in the city itself, and it was necessary for it to move, therefore, for the needs of local importance, but also international importance. The concession itself, or when you look at the sites of the Zadar port administration, then you will see how many concessionaries there are for that area alone, so it is not just one concessionary and it is not a Turkish concessionary, but a series of concessionaires doing different traffic and services. In the tariff itself, when you look at what exists and what the port administration charges, then you can see what traffic and what revenues can be made by the passenger, by the vehicle itself and by the cargo itself. So what should be said is that once again the business itself of performing cruisers or ship traffic can only be carried out by those companies that have made the offer. 2 tenders were, at the first tender there were no offers, at the second competition was selected a concessionaire who would therefore perform the service. It's already been said by now what is the amount of nominal, fixed, plus one that is variable, which brings new revenue. So, the goal is that anyone could report to that competition, including our company, and Mr. Bulj could answer the competition and do the job if he knew how to do it. So this job must be known to work, must be able and bring those quality companies that will actually channel so much traffic to this port and so many passengers who will then have a multiplier effect on the development of the city itself. The aim with this concessionaire was to make this port a home port, so the port in which the complete supply of the ships will be carried out at the port, which means that all the products of our end and wider can and must come to those very ships. So here, when someone is saying that it won't be this product or that product, then the one who doesn't know and doesn't know how to run such a traffic and doesn't even know the job that happens that way at all. Therefore, it is very important to just mention this variable part which, when it brings traffic, brings passengers, actually allows huge then multiplier action of importance itself, which in this case cannot possibly be the subject of this kind of investigation, which happened because it systematically took place over 15 years and, in fact, with some solutions that were offered before as a more quality we have lost actually one mandate that this port could have become much earlier in function and that is at least 4 years for which the design of a new terminal facility was lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132414	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132415	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Peric injured Article 238, insisting that we do not know how to actually manage ports. No, you know how to paint tunnels, you know how to run ports, you know how to run EU funds, you know how to develop ours, you know how to manage energy, that's why 2/3 of Croatia is empty. And don't think if only you could paint tunnels and so many prices, there'd be a lot of companies that failed and they could paint tunnels, They know how to run ports because it's our marine good. [[Intruder Petrov: Time's up.]] It's not as good a sea as the Golden War. [[Employer Petrov: Representative Bulj, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132416	So, Agent Bulj... Representative Bulj, your time is up, please. ... [[I don't understand.]] Representative Bulj. [[I don't understand.]] Okay, you used the Rules of Procedure for Replication, you deserved a warning, I believe you were counting on it as soon as you checked in. Representative Bunjac reported on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives' Club for the closing word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132417	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers. So I would like to point out once again that the citizens of Peljesac are gunned down and angry at the fact that a new ferry port of Perna is being built where, in the center of the settlement, concrete in the tourist complex will be paved in the length of 450 m, thus practically destroying the tourism of this place for several years, while the problem of traffic through Orebic will not be solved. They consider it necessary to make a bypass and make a ferry port outside the settlement, best in the location where the Pelješac-Korčula bridge is planned. There is such a strong resistance that I repeat not only that the numbers of Facebook pages are established but even the association Blue Wall that deals with this problem, they have repeatedly worked on the county, the mayor of the municipality doesn't want to answer them, he doesn't want to communicate with them at all, yesterday there was such a "problem", that I don't say that there was a mess and these people are very interested in communicating with someone in the ministry, so if you respected ministers are willing to receive those citizens, listen to them, they would be very grateful, I am giving you a message, let's tell you on that side almost the entire pedestrian coast that then try or find a new place for that port or at least to try to narrow down because they think there's no need for such a huge port, meaning 450 meters is located in the very center of the city. That's so much from me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132418	The minister will give the final word on behalf of the motionor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to thank you for your participation in today's debate. I may have several answers regarding the law on the implementation of the regulation first, there were no objections or proposals that would amend this bill, or what we have proposed in the legislative proposal itself. This law will, in fact, make it clearer and demonstrate the transparency of all our ports and assumptions for the effective implementation of the provisions in question, and we will integrate our ports into an effective transport logistics chain of trans-European transport networks, etc., will be increasingly efficient, transparent and in this sense thanks to everyone for the debate. As for maybe a few things about Gaženica, there are a lot of things said here and in the debate itself, every club of MPs, each representative has a right to his position, but I am obliged as a minister to say, since I also personally checked and knew the subject, as I did in and the port of Gruz in Dubrovnik where he was annulled at the end of the procedure. Here at the port of Gazenica there were no injuries to this process and whoever claims that this procedure is non-transparent, the one who claims that this procedure is such that we have given something to someone, when we tell them, then it is the State Port Authority of Zadar and the administrative council that made the decisions, is not telling the truth. The competition was transparent, the competition notices were published in international magazines, so that everyone could report to the competition and in one legal, transparent procedure a decision was made on the selection of concessionaires and there was no injury, as was the case in the case of the port of Dubrovnik, i.e. the port of Gruž. Secondly, to say that the total value of investment in the port of Gazenica is one thing, investment in the passenger terminal is certainly less than total investment in the port of Gazenica, and we know that everything in the port of Gazenica is built, in the infrastructure and the superstructure, etc., as it is built in some other ports, so that generalise it and say that the income of a million and a half kuna, it is a fixed part, there is also a variable part, there are port fees, there are total effects and total incomes that are more difficult to count and are not a million and a half kuna, it does not stand and of course, every representative and every club has its position, but as minister I am obliged here to highlight it. Looking at all our ports and how much has been invested in all our ports, primarily in the port of Rijeka, and then at Gaženica and other ports, Bačić spoke of it, of course, being large amounts at first sight, but the state without investment in infrastructure, without investment in access to ports, here we recently signed a contract for D403, di EU funding an access road to Zagreb coast that would not make sense without access road. Thank God, we provided EU funds, so it made it easier for us, it wouldn't be and there won't be any development of these ports. It means that all governments that have made decisions in this sense and in this direction, I think as a minister, I believe that they have made the right decisions, and as far as the port of Gaženica has been concerned from the very beginning when loans were granted by international credit institutions, then it was known that a concession tender would be opened for activities at the passenger terminal. This is not anyone's arbitrary decision of any minister, nor of this present, nor of the one before, it was known from the very beginning and there was a continuity of all decisions about the port of Gaženica in which I am convinced as a minister that it has its own perspective and that the construction of the Gaženica port, a passenger terminal, here we were recently with the prime minister downstairs, will be built and the fishing port, which will certainly help, especially on the Central Adriatic of our fishermen, will help to develop this entire port as one whole in a positive direction, which we all expect together. I repeat, the procedure was not non-transparent, if you have, any of you, any knowledge, that something like you say is divided, dimmed, you are obliged, people, to report it, but what I saw, as a minister, that procedure was transparent and there were no things in it that eventually he should cancel out or do anything by the ministry. And finally, as far as the port of Pern is concerned, I'll take these people, feel free to tell them to come forward. I'll listen to them. No project that has no single support on the ground will be pushed and, of course, we won't do anything against people. There are spatial plans down there, there are decisions of the municipality or of the city, there are decisions of the County Assembly, so this is one procedure where all citizens and political parties are involved and should be involved, so you can freely tell those people that I will take them into the ministry and listen to their thinking about the port of Perna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132420	Thank you. Before I go any further, I would like to welcome the students and students of the Karlovac Natural History School, who are here with us today at the gallery. ... For a replica of the Prime Minister's closing statement, MP Nikola Grmoi first called. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132421	Dear Minister, here we are testifying this morning with media reports on how Minister Žalac's family is paying for one car or renting a car a single figure of over 1,000 kuna Jolly Autoline Company means based in Sibenik and I've been looking here so little, I've watched, I see that through the cohesion funds this company Jolly autoline, which means, you've been boasting about this one in Split, you've delivered 20 joint buses, it means total 74 million kuna, 85% of that money from cohesion funds, that's how Minister Žalac works, I'm wondering how you're commenting and if you see this link, means between that delivery and the valuable purchase and this car, and maybe there's a certain conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132422	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132423	Dear Mr. Representative, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, not the Ministry of Regional Development, has opened one grant programme for 9 Croatian cities to purchase buses for public transport and one of the cities is the town of Split, whose fleet as well as in other Croatian cities, but especially in the town of Split, I do not know how many 10 years old and in very poor condition. We signed the contract, I signed it with a public city transport company in Split about the grant of grants, and then the company in the competition, as well as all other companies that received the contract, which received grants, opened a public tender for the purchase of these buses. I don't know who got the buses in, or which company she delivered, had to win the public competition, so it had absolutely nothing to do with Mrs. Zhalac, and neither did I because we signed a grant agreement. This procedure This procedure, allow for a minute, this procedure and all other procedures are going to control, to ex ante control, to ex post control so that there is hardly anything there [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Do the wrong thing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132424	Agent Kirin called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132425	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, respected ministers in Croatia there are 6 port administrations which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, of economic interest, we have heard that the operation of the port has an impact, a multiplier effect on the entire economy, there are 22 port administrations, which are of county importance, of which 5 ports with internal, ports in the inner waters. So all port administrations have a certain structure. What is the economic activity in these small ports, in the inner waters, and would it be better with all these small ports turned into one port administration on the inner waters?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132426	Replication response, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132427	Come on, thank you, Mr. Representative, even though this isn't the subject of this law, but I'll tell you. As for the port administrations on the inner sea, the inner waters are on the rivers, we have formed a special administration in the ministry that deals exactly with that segment. We have been developing ports at sea for a long time, etc., less on our rivers, and I think it is actually a great potential for us, and several projects are precisely due to the port administrations in Slavonski Brod, Osijek, Vukovar, have launched projects that are being funded by European funds. It means that the unification of port administrations is out of the question, I don't think it's a good proposal and that we need to help them develop their projects even more strongly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132428	Representative Strick called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132429	Thank you, Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Ministers, I agree with you that investment in infrastructure should be seen in one broader context and so on when we talk about modernising or expanding port capacity. Currently in Kosice, Slovakia, the Chinese are building a logistics centre of a million m2 of storage space. And of course, we should be interested in most of this goods coming to Rijeka or Rijeka, and then by the railway track further towards Hungary, i.e. Rijeka, Zagreb and Hungary are the vessels of this traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132430	Representative Loncar has come forward for the replica. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132431	Excuse me,.../incomprehensible/... when it comes to the transparency of the port of Gazenica, one who follows well what the port of Gazenica means not only for the flats or Zadar County, but for the whole of Croatia to see the situation that it brings not only the development of the port of Gazenica, but also the further development of economic zones that are near the city of Zadar.../incomprehensible/... municipalities. Through the development of economic zones which, based on them and based on the port of Gazenica will further develop Ravni kotars and employ an additional 5,000 jobs, if this is not the reason that the port continues to advance and build even more intensity, then I really do not know what should actually be done not only in Zadar County but throughout Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132432	Representative Bulj has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132433	Ministers did not get an answer, of course when you say the transparency of this process, that local and regional politicians reported, organized protests together with citizens, lit candles about what you do against the interests of both Zadar and Zadar County on the streets of Zadar. We organized a number of petitions for you, we also had a thematic session, so you know that you are familiar, you are aware that what was similar to that of Bechtel, the coloring of the tunnels and other marapheus that destroyed the Croatian economy. And that's why I'm calling you once again, well check where local and regional politicians have reported all this, that they haven't received answers from the authorities, of course Caleta has learned it very well and his operatives and it's just like this happened to you with Bechtel, painting tunnels and things like that. while managing your party colleague's ministry. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132434	Thank you, Agent Bulj, time's up. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132435	Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports, first reading, P.Z. No. 595. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports and 1. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find it unanimous 81 FOR the conclusion that it was proposed by Parliament's working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132436	The next item is: - Final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, second question, P.Z. No. 519 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Josepha Rimac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, please. I apologize to the secretary of state, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... One moment, one moment, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132437	Mr. Vice President, Article 176 and Article 193 have been violated. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as the Proposer did not comply with the provisions relating to the provisions which have retroactive effect, which are provisions in Articles 100 and 97, provisions which will retroactively affect the units of local self-government which have already adopted the budget and entities which are obliged to submit reports to the DIP for a period already under way and we are in March. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Proposer was obliged in particular to explain the justification for the return of certain provisions and should also have the opinion of the Committee, the competent parent body of the Constitution Committee and the Legislative Committee, which does not exist in the final proposal for an explanation of the return provisions, thus breaching the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132438	It's a conclusion. Yeah, because I estimated it was important to hear the reasons why, which... As chairman, I have an opportunity, please. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We proceed with the procedure, the secretary of state is on behalf of the motionor, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132439	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The final draft of the law improves and fully regulates the system of financing political activities and election promotions and regulates new areas. The financing of referendum activities that have not been regulated by any regulation so far is regulated and transparency and supervision of its financing is ensured. Presumptions for more effective supervision and strengthening transparency are provided, the information system for funding supervision through which supervisory entities will submit financial reports and other reports to competent authorities to ensure multiple improvements, will enable and simplify, means the assembly and submission of financial reports and other regulations and reports by the supervisory entities, will be ensured by their publication through the information system in one place for all entities, which is also a relief to the means of monitoring political financing by the public. The criteria for determining the amount of amounts provided in the budgets of units of local and regional self-government for the regular annual financing of political parties and independent council members are also laid down, thus ensuring minimum common standards. It is found that the DIP, as a supervisory authority, imposes all administrative sanctions, reduces the amounts of criminal sanctions, proportionate to the severity of the infringements for which they are pronounced and other issues which have been found to be insufficiently regulated in the implementation of this law. The difference between the first and second readings refers to part of the definition of the concepts, the final results of the elections, has also been deleted from the provision that the possible change in membership in the political party of representatives or members of the representative body has affected the way the political parties' funds are allocated as set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, we are talking about Article 7. The method of allocation of funds for regular annual financing between political parties in the coalition is specified, the obligation of the political party, which is the legal successor of the political party that is being joined together and ceases to exist, which by association has become an end to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament or the representative body of the units of local self-government, delivering written notice on the status change. It is also complemented by a provision governing the financial resources allocated to an independent representative, or an independent councilman, and he gave them up for that financial year, which remains in the state budget, or the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government. A provision has been added to provide for the handling of funds from the special account of an independent representative, or an independent councilman, whose term of office ended with death. It also defines a ban on financing by companies and other legal entities in which units of local and regional self-government have more than 5% stakes or shares. It is more precise to determine what donations are considered from unnamed and anonymous elections. It is also established that administrative sanctions for the implementation of the provisions of the laws relating to regular annual financing are given by the State Election Commission. The issue of temporary suspension of payment of funds for regular annual financing from the budget without reduction is further discussed. I thank and stand at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132440	Before we proceed with the replica, I would like to ask the proposer's representative to show himself about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which the MP has made, so to speak. 97th and Art. The 100th sentence reads on January 1st, today is March and the breach of the Rules of Procedure has gone in the direction that the proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure of the HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132441	As to the meaning of the injury, in Art. 100 we say it is a duty to coordinate until 31 December 2019, so I don't see that it's retrograde because it's 31 December 2019, which means we are as far as I know in March 2019. As to the meaning of the annual financial reports of political parties and independent representatives, for 2018, they are delivered by 1 March 2019, which means that they have already been delivered and we see no injury at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132442	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was requested by MP Maras. I'll give you a chance, Counselor Polninjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If the act does not comply with the HS Rules of Procedure, then I am surprised to you that you are at all allowing the debate under this act because the whole state cannot be subordinated to HDZ. When they need something, then the Rules of Procedure and the laws can be violated in order to pump up 4 million kunas in the EU campaign now. I ask you to respond, withdraw the act from the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132444	Representative Bulj also requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll give it a chance, just a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132445	Thank you very much. I also think that the procedure has been violated and that this is only targeted and it would be best for the secretary to withdraw this law and bring it back to work. It is simply not always the point of how retro, to satisfy their own interests and political campaigns, and above all to destroy the referendum. So, pull this, it didn't go through the procedure, Professor Podolnjak gave it, we didn't talk, I expect you'll pull the secretaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132446	Representative Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132447	... Mr Vice-President, I state that I am not satisfied with the reasoning given by the State Secretary and I announce that I will address the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system because, without doubt, colleagues and colleagues have been violated by the Rules of Procedure. In 193 when individual [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder: Can you please turn on the microphone?]] The provisions of the law [[Intruder: Thank you.]] have feedback [[Intruder: Time's up.]] The applicant must then give a special explanation. [[Employee: Representative Podolnjak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132448	Time's up. Please, so I gave you a higher, higher minute to bring up the problem, but I need to be in line with the deadlines, I was curious, you said yourself you'd come to the board. I also ask you to speak to the board and that he give his opinion. Representative Jelkovac, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132449	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Intruder: Please turn on the microphone.]] So by performing his performance through the violation of his colleague Maras's Rules of Procedure, he also hurt his rank. 268. The Rules of Procedure and colleagues of Podolnjak are wrong, there is no retroactiveness here, so today we also discussed it on the Legislative Committee and I would not like to see things out here that do not stand. So there's no retroactivity, that's the board's position. There is an amendment to the Legislative Committee to the final article of the law which speaks of the entry into force of the law itself, so, here, I would like to take that into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132450	Representative Jelkovac, I would ask that and that might be the best quality for the debate in the assembly and for the viewers who are following HS today that these things be handled in a good way in the parliamentary committees before they come into the procedure, and obviously there are open issues left, but on the side of that. Representative Podolnjak has already said that he will address the committee that is parenting for the issue so that we will have their opinion. We follow the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132451	So we here have a situation that's hurt the Rules of Procedure. Prof. The bottom line also warned the entire procedure. It is clear what is the intention of the Ministry of Administration and here present State Secretary and Minister Lovra Kuščević. The first goal is to disable the referendum and the second goal is to increase the amount that HDZ should spend in the European elections, with a million and a half kuna to 4 million, so it violates the procedure, so it goes beyond all the rules and after this breach of the Rules of Procedure, please chair me to give me a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132452	So if you want, you can take a break right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132453	So, I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to consult on the follow-up of this debate, in which it is obvious that the ruling violations both the Rules of Procedure and the procedure in order to impose, means, as soon as I have said in breach of the Rules of Procedure, that the other amendments to the Law on Referendum have been announced, which would make the referendum completely impossible, we have seen what the relationship of the rulings towards the referendum is, for them, as Prof. Dolnjak, only a dead referendum, a good referendum, will now face a union referendum, possibly new initiatives and is aimed at making it impossible to refer to citizens as soon as possible through this law and through the referendum law. It is also clear that HDZ, but also their partners from the HNS, are now in power, have acquired huge financial resources and that they want to spend these funds in this campaign for European elections and increase the amount from one million and a half kuna to 4 million kuna for their campaign, we are aware that they will be spent on black and much, much more financial resources. We understand what is happening in the last days, we have a suspension of democracy, we have a suspension of media freedoms, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have complete, complete, complete, complete destruction, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, we Ten minutes off.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132454	HDZ break representative, I presume.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club so that we can also consult on the subject of this law. What he would point out is, first of all, there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so said the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, and I think the media possibility of actually media promotion is being used here in order to place some of the issues in the public by the opposition, specifically Mr. Grmoje who simply do not stand. As for the elections for the European Parliament, the elections, I think we all know that the European Parliament is a very important, huge number of regulations that come from the EU, the European Parliament participates in the European Commission's election process, participates in the adoption of the EU's multiannual and annual budget, means defining the funds from the European Funds, etc., and I think that this is a very important institution. It is precisely because of the importance of the institution, and because of the need for citizens to become more involved in these elections that have not had so much turnout so far and for citizens to be more informed about EU themes, I think it is good that, and that this campaign can be invested more, just so that citizens can be motivated, informed, what is involved in this famous EU, so that they can exercise their civic right to vote. Thirdly, as far as the referendum stories are concerned, it is not true that they are being disabled, and especially not impossible by this law, this law only allows for the control of the financing of referendum initiatives. I don't know who bothers, I don't know who bothers to know who's funding the referendum initiatives, these are initiatives that can change the constitution, which can change the laws of the Republic of Croatia, it's normal to control it, to make the procedure more transparent, I really don't know why the colleagues in the opposition are bothered by this transparency. Also, I don't know if they want to allow perhaps what this law has disabled, that certain foreign centres can finance the implementation of referendum initiatives. Is this what bothers MOST and colleagues, so that's why they're bothered by this law that introduces transparency in the whole process, please let them, I hope it becomes clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132456	Representative Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132457	Dear Vice-President HS, we are looking for a two-minute break to warn of a harsh violation of the HDZ law, of a harsh violation of the constitution by the HDZ and of a harsh suspension of democracy. My question, gentlemen of the HDZ, is, what is your motive for raising campaign costs from a million and a half kuna to 4 million kuna, where did you get the money? Where did you get the money? Could it be from the black funds? The other day we were able to read that Mamic gave you a million euros in black funds, is that maybe that money? Where did you get the money? Why does Minister Žalac's money, which per month for a car, rents a car, pays 36.000,00 kn, and she pays 20.000,00 kn, where did you get the money? Every time he's in your direction, every once in a while, the money disappears, so as far as the referendum goes, so the ballot doesn't disappear? That is why, in addition to such a HDZ, there is a need for rigorous control of both ballots and referendums. As for your motive to help national minorities, I can say that it comes down to you being on the side of national minorities only when you need their 8 hands in HS. The SDP is always on the side of national minorities because whether you are male or female, old or young, gay or strategic, Croatian, Serb, Bosniak, Roma, Hungarian, whether you are Catholic, Orthodox, Muslim, for us it is irrelevant, for us it is only important whether you are human, we do not share people unlike you from HDZ and we will not allow any referendum and no referendum issue to be compromised by the constitution guaranteed the rights of national and other minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132458	Representative Bunjac, if I may, Agent Pernar has come to the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132459	Dear Chairman, said HDZ gentlemen, why it is disputed to know who is funding the referendum initiatives, it is not disputed, no one has a problem with that, it has always been clear. We are looking for a 10 minute break on the subject of what we want to point out is that the current law is destroying democracy because it is very bureaucratizing and formalising the process and collecting the referendum on the one hand and on the other hand the law is destroying democracy because it is further increasing the amounts that are allowed to be used in election campaigns. [[You're looking for Mr. Pernar, you're looking for a break.]] In the end, we'll become like America where actually whoever has more money wins. That's how it's been kind of boring, but now it's formalizing deura. According to the current proposed law, a person who, for example, donates a referendum initiative, the one currently in force, which we have joined, would not work until 67, but should conclude a contract with the initiative by 65. Before he could simply be sent from his account to their personal data and clearly show who the donor of the initiative is, and now it won't be possible. Now he will have to make a donation of 50 kn of this initiative and the person who donates will have to enter into a special contract. I mean, it's harassment, but it's all clear when it comes to realizing that HDZ is against the will of most people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132460	Because of the extremely complex situation, too, because the representative Podolnjak has therefore asked for the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, I will set a break of an hour. I hope, too, that, during this term, the Committee on the Constitution, the political system will give its opinion so that we can continue the work of the session, thank you. MEETING IN 12, 17 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132461	Okay, 13 and 17 minutes, two minutes late. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:15 A.M.]] We are going forward with the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. We have several replicas, more or less as many MPs as there are in the Parliament. We've got two injuries, three. Now I'd like you to tell me who was first. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132462	Mr. Vice President, I know you weren't here while Mr. Petrov led, however, the session of the Constitutional Committee has not been held, and the objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure is extremely serious. Therefore, it is not a small procedural error, but it is that this final proposal for a law has not been drawn up and submitted to HS in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In 193 because there were no arguments contained in it with the reverse effect of the law [[Intruder: Thank you.]] There are provisions. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132463	Time's up, seven seconds. I'll, how do I answer everyone together or once in a while? Let's go there, let's go, I'll give you further injuries to the Rules of Procedure and then I'll answer everything together. Here you go, Mr. Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132464	Here, I join the Honorable Vice President in this violation of the Rules of Procedure brought by the Professor. Downhill. We warned Mr. Petrov, your colleague vice president of the Parliament, that there was simply no condition for this session to continue. That's what the whole opposition did. Here it wants to break over the knee of things because HDZ wants to increase the amount, meaning the 4 million kuna it intends to spend in the EU election campaign and wants to adopt this law urgently, and the conditions are not met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132465	Thank you very much. And Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132466	Thank you very much, Your Honor. No procedural conditions have been met here, Art. In 193, he was broken. We don't have a procedure here, so the procedure isn't respected, we don't have what it was meant to be, this is a very important law. Here, obviously HDZ wants to push it from a million-and-a-half to a five-million-dollar campaign and to make it even harder for the referendum, so I'm asking that the procedure be respected in such important laws as to finance political parties and referendums, not to hold back The will of the people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132467	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Falcon. No, no, no, turn on the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132468	Yeah, well, colleagues mentioned an article. 236, especially my colleague Dolnjak. Namely, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are obliged to deliver an opinion on a reasoned request for breach of the Rules of Procedure within 24 hours. That deadline has not passed, therefore, the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, or by colleagues who claim that the Rules of Procedure have been injured and have injured Articles 236 and 238, so I ask you to give them a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132469	Thank you very much and Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132470	Thank you very much, I would ask you, Mr. Vice President, to warn the Government of unserious behaviour towards the Croatian Parliament when this is the case. Please. [[238, right?]] 238 is one of, yes, so is Mr. Sokol, like this, when you have a whole series of injuries to the Rules of Procedure it's evident that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. [[/Intruder: 238.]] So it's not safe for the MPs to complain so much that they don't see HDZ working and bending its laws to make it easier to do a financial campaign for European elections [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that they work so hard for our people coming out of Croatia [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Probably no one from Croatia would. [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132471	Mr. Maras, thank you very much. Look, I'm on the hodogram of the presidency from 1 to 14:30 if Mr. Reiner doesn't come before, I've found that situation, I'm aware of everything you've said, but Mr. Falcon is my only job and he told me that I'm supposed to say that you actually have the right to be an important law, as well as many other laws that may be more important because it's people, and it's not just political parties or about, it's about the wider, wider, wider masses of the population than political parties that have political parties or, but that's important, because it's money, public money. It is all true what you say and this law will not be voted upon if we do not, if we do not have the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure, in this case, the most Rules of Procedure. That's why we're all right, and we'll continue with the replicas. We are discussing this because it is on the agenda, and the vote will not be possible without the opinion of the board, and the opinion, and the committee can give an opinion within 24 hours. Mr. Grmoya has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132472	Thank you, Vice-President, I must express great dissatisfaction with the way this law is pushed into the Croatian Parliament, past the procedure in order to meet the political option from which you come, in order to increase the amount of meaning for your election campaign, but also to prevent the referendum of citizens. It is quite clear that you do not want democracy and cannot possibly agree with Mr. Vice President who said this law does not concern all citizens. Political parties and the HDZ political party and other ruling majority parties are passing laws concerning all our citizens, so it is important how these parties are financed, how much public money they spend and what is happening in this whole process. So, State Secretary, I'm asking you to withdraw this law from this debate here because obviously we don't have any means of meeting all the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132473	Thank you very much, interesting how you always manage to do what I said. I said this law is important because it's about public money, but there are laws that are even more important than this, which you'll agree with, right? Nice of you to agree with me once. Let's move on. Would you like to answer? Let's move on, Mr. Downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132474	I thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, this proposed law is actually the worst example that laws should not come before the Croatian Parliament and that they should not be passed. This eclectic example shows that the law is pushed in order to be passed within a very short period of time, a few days before the European Parliament's election is called upon to pass a law ensuring significantly higher funds that can be spent on election promotion. This is actually inadmissible, even this morning before the Legislative Committee, this law was to enter into force 8 days after its publication in the National Journal, which means that after the President of the Republic has called for elections and intervention of the Committee on Legislatives, this law should enter into force on the day following its publication in the National Journal. Which means you want to. to publish and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to enter into force before the call [[Thank you very much.]] The choice. [[/Intruder: 8 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132475	9 seconds 10, 11. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132476	Dear Secretary, since he will not chair to withdraw this law against the procedure, withdraw this law, you come from the pride city of Knin do not embarrass him. My happiest day of my life was when I saw the city from Dinara from the direction of Grahor Knin. Don't embarrass that end, don't shame yourself for what the Croatian defenders gave their lives. Pull this law, this law concerns very important things, here you hit the ground, the referendum, direct democracy. The chairman does not want to do this because he is subject of course to HDZ and most of them, so make, be brave, be called by the Knin Queen, and withdraw this law do not embarrass the city of pride, the city of victory, Knin, do not embarrass the Dalmatian Zagora. This is a blow to the people and to the defenders who defended this Croatia, a blow to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132477	Thank you, too. Mr Bernardic, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132478	Thank you very much. Croatian citizens today can see how HDZ works and how they own the country for themselves. They gave it all to themselves. When voted, when debated in the assembly, and now they want to subdue themselves and how much money in the campaign will be spent. So it has to be forced by Friday so the president can call the election automatically within 10 days and then join the campaign in principle and according to the rules that have never been valid so far. It is amazing that people are in line with themselves, everything they need to be done in two days, what citizens need to be waiting for for months, and sometimes, unfortunately, they don't even welcome at all, and on the other hand, not that this is a European HDZ, this is a thick Balkan HDZ and I apologize to the Balkan peoples for insulting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132479	Mr. Ice cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the whole time, therefore, tries to push through the the thesis that this law will contribute to the transparency of funding, therefore, and political parties and referendum initiatives, as it is hypocritical to argue that, a month ago, the law on the register of the right owners of the company, where the ruling majority of the register has been prolonged for a year, because we also warned, therefore, that if a legal person or a company donates to a particular political party that it will not be known, therefore, who is the legal owner of that company, on the one hand, we have a totally non-transparent, therefore, part of it, and now with this law you claim that transparency will improve as far as political parties and referendum initiatives are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132481	Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132482	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, today we are discussing the Law on the financing of political activities, electoral promotion and referendum and instead of taking advantage of the opposition and proposing an initiative to make all these procedures as high as possible, under control, transparent, to prescribe deadlines, ways of financing, they are against the adoption of this law. However, I am not surprised by the great results they have achieved, I can even say the historical results that have been achieved in the elections in the Lika-Senj County, of course, are against everything. The SDP has not won a single council mandate, and MOST has not even managed to hand over the list, and now imagine that, in the Lika-Senj County, the result of zero, they are thinking about some European elections, so in the north of the Republic of Croatia, dear gentlemen would tell you the diet.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132483	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, firstly, if I've noticed Mr. Bull well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132484	Thank you very much. He hurt fellow Strick's 238th article because he says that we are against the law, the referendum, the will of the majority, so you hold them back, you voted against 400,000 people, you, you voted to make a decision, that people were elected by majority, you were violating the constitution, the silo, the force, 400,000 people you threw under your feet and spit on those people who asked on the streets to change the electoral law, you, you voted for it. Although you haven't been shown 40,000 signatures [[Intruder: Thank you]] valid [[Thank you very much, Mr. Bulj.]] You're one of the undertakers... [[Mr. Bulj, don't go any further...]] You know you already have one warning, right? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132485	I can't. It'd be ugly if you got another one. Mr. Podolnjak's second injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132486	A fellow uncle was injured by an officer. 238, first indent, because he was talking about a subject that wasn't the subject of debate. He was talking about elections in Lico-Senj County and Bay the way you mentioned them, I don't know why you mention elections that don't serve you at all, you spent a lot of money, Mr. Milinović stayed mayor, you stayed in opposition, answer the Croatian public why you spent a lot of millions to make the situation as it was before the election, and you're talking about some big Win [[Intruder: it's...]] [[Thank you very much, these are all replicas.]] [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132487	And at least tell me which article of the Rules of Procedure is behind your... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132488	238, so, fellow Bull, I'm telling the truth, so they just publicly claimed that they were looking for 238 In 238, he's not telling the truth, so they just asked the law to be removed from the agenda. [[/Intruder: What article?]] Yeah, it means to get off the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132489	Thank you very much. Instead of sharing three warnings about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I will go further with the replicas and give Mr. Klisovic the last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132490	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, you have been asked many relevant questions here in this debate as replicas to your presentation, you have not answered any of them. Does this mean that you consider these issues irrelevant and people who have put them irrelevant, that they are not a large part of the Croatian people, or is this a form of disrespect for HS? Because there's nowhere else to ask questions but here, in the media or on the street. So if you want a competent democratic debate, then she's here. So, the law must be passed quickly, effective on the day of adoption, it is unusual, all these unusual questions related to the law produce doubts, and you have to give answers to both us and Croatian citizens. After all, where did the parties get 5 million kuna for the promotion, which party has it? We don't get that much money from the state budget or from public sources of funding. So, is it pushing the parties back into donations, into various kinds of financial arrangements? which eventually ends up in black funds, as HDZ could show us. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132491	Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary of State, Mr. Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132492	Just a response to the esteemed representative, I'm going to use the right on behalf of the promoter and eventually I'm going to have a final address on all of your comments, and it's not 5 million kuna, I don't know where you found that amount?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132493	Okay, well, we're done with the replicas and now does the Committee's representatives want to show themselves? Yes, no, yes, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132494	Mr Vice President, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Article 159, have been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Rules of Procedure shall act on the basis of the rights and powers laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Legislative Committee is in violation of its amendment, which suggests that this law should not enter into force on the eighth day following its publication in the National Journal but on the day following its publication, of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which requires that the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament enter into force on the eighth day following its publication in the National Journal and only under particularly justified reasons may be shorter. Since there is no chairman of the board, [[Intruder Radin: Excuse me, yes, that you were clear but 20 seconds more you spoke but you were clear.]] But I have to announce... [[You've been clear, I'm sorry...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132495	But I can't, I don't have the heart to give you a warning but you're already twice the time you've had talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132496	But I am obliged to announce that I will seek the opinion of the Constitution Committee, it must enter the minutes. So I have to announce it. [[/Intruder Radin: Absolutely, absolutely, all right. It's your right, is.]] Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Yes, announce.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132497	Here's a good one, call it in. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132498	I know, but I had to get it, you had to tell me as chairman that no Rules of Procedure had been broken and gave an explanation and then I could go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132499	It's about an amendment that doesn't necessarily have to be accepted as an amendment, right? Besides, you're talking about retroactiveness, it's a weak proactiveity, right, because it's about one day after, and not one day before, it would be retroactive that one day before and not one day after, but I'm not going to get involved in it, and I don't even know how I'm going to vote on it, I'm just saying, it's about the government amendment. ... Yeah. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132500	I actually have a question. I'm not allowed to replicate the secretary of state, so I'm curious. 238 [[Intruder Radin: But you must say an article.]] Can you tell me you or Mr. Bucara based on which I am not being denied the replica of the secretary of state? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] No, no, I picked it up, so she was like the promoter talking, I picked up the line, and it was me. [[Intruder Radin: so you weren't on the list.]] But... [[Intruder Radin: Ma can't replica a bit, Mr. Zekanovic.]] spoke or responded as a Proposer [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it was just a replica? [[Intruder Radin: No, she replied to Mr. Klisovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132501	Yeah, yeah, that was the answer to the replica. Okay, respecting all the reasons, Mr. Podolnjak, I listened to you carefully and normally that you have the right to set this up and normally that the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system will have to give an answer to that. I'd like to keep all that in mind, I'd like to give you my word again now that you're speaking on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132502	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. In preparation for this point, of course, I prepared an exhibition on behalf of the club but after today's session of the Committee on Legislatives, which was held so that this point could be debated at all, there was such a big change that I was actually forced to turn the whole speech that I prepared about this point and start from the end, and when I say from the end, it actually means from the last article of the law relating to the entry into force of this law. So according to the provision you see in the bill, this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal and that is the usual formulation when the Croatian Parliament adopts laws and it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And today on the Legislative Committee, I'm asking a question. Elections for the European Parliament will be discussed in a few days. This law, according to this formulation, should take effect after the election is called, several days and I ask the question of how, at the time when elections are called in accordance with the provisions of existing laws and the existing Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion, this law will take effect in the midst of an election campaign, with one important paper that this law proposes and when it comes to financing elections for members of the European Parliament. As a rule, almost this new law does not change the amounts that can be spent maximumly in individual elections for MPs in the Croatian Parliament, in the local elections, for elections for the President of the Republic but, indicatively, imagine just for these elections that are ahead of us are increasing the funds from a million pounds to 4 million kuna so far, meaning more than 2.5 times more than so, without an appropriate explanation. However, we were convinced that this law could not be applied to these elections for the European Parliament because it would be contrary to good parliamentary practice as the Constitutional Court said. There are recommendations, guidelines, Venice commissions, electoral legislation does not change in the election year. Be careful, in the election year, one year before all the subjects could prepare for changes in the electoral legislation, we are changing this law one day or two days after this is proposed by the Committee on Law, before calling the election decision in a few days. And the Legislative Committee, instead of answering my questions and on retroactive application in some of the provisions of this law, and on how it is possible for the law to come into force in the midst of an electoral promotion for the election of members of the European Parliament, the committee president tells me that they have an amendment, which will respond to my remarks. The amendment given by the Committee on Legislatives and which you have just adopted, says the following in Article. 102. The provision is amended to replace the words of the first day instead of eight days. Which means that the law does not enter into force on the eighth day following the publication of the first day of its publication. And now listen to the argument, the explanation is that an expression is being developed to allow the provisions of this law to be applied as soon as possible, given the content they are editing. An explanation in one sentence, completely inadequately unapplicable, completely contrary to what the Constitutional Court requires, when it comes to reasons and particularly justified, constitutionally justified reasons for such entry into force of the law. 'Cause I don't know. 92. The Constitution, and it is above both this law and any law, shall enter into force at the earliest of eight days from the day of its publication, unless, for the particular reasons of the law, it is otherwise laid down. What are the particular reasons? To supplement an expression so that the provisions of this law could be applied as soon as possible? I even think that this Constitutional Court, in which I don't have too much confidence, could not accept such an explanation for the entry into force of the law. But that doesn't burden the motionor either. By common agreement, therefore, the government did not want to propose the amendment, but rather left it to the Committee on Legislatives which should not have done so. This is not the task of the Legislative Committee, which must be careful that each law fulfils all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but also more than that, it must be careful to comply with the Constitution. And for one single reason, in order for this law to come into effect before the formal election call for the European Parliament, so that the ruling party and its partners, instead of 1.5 million kuna, in this upcoming election promotion, could spend 4 million kunas, have enough money, want to make the most of it, they want to achieve the greatest impact on voters, but also in an absolute inappropriate manner. In such a way, it's absolutely unauthorized by the Constitution. And for this reason, if you wanted to spend 2.5 million more than you would laugh at existing legal provisions, you are doing this kind of work and you are drastically violating not only good parliamentary practice, which the Venice Commission has warned of, which the Constitutional Court has repeatedly warned about in its report on the entry into force of the law and despite all that, you are willing to break it all, so that you can spend 2.5 million kuna more. And imagine all that we're discussing and the whole essence of the law, it turns out that you can spend a lot more money in the upcoming elections and that I repeat it 30 times still wouldn't be enough. Everything else, actually prepared in this law, in this debate and all the amendments we're going to submit, falls into the shadow of this drastic violation of the Constitution. You know that I don't often throw myself off this pay phone, about, uh, breaking the Constitution, but when I say that, then I'm truly convinced that the constitution is being broken, it's not a matter of throwing away, but in such a way, on the Committee on Law, this morning, to change the provisions on the entry of the law into force, with an explanation that an expression is being processed, so they could be fair and say, we want this to come into effect earlier, so that the provision can be applied, that more money can be spent in the upcoming election promotion, because we believe. Obviously the HDZ really has a lot of it and it has to spend it, you're afraid that your score will be bad, so instead of a million and a half you have to spend four, officially, as much as you want to raise the funds by this proposed law. Of course, what we have been against from the very beginning is your position and suggestion to regulate and referenda campaign, i.e. the referendum-related promotion. And we think it's absolutely not the subject of this law, but it's the subject of a special basic referendum law. It is easy to explain, by the fact that it has recently become available to us, which is, in fact, what your minister said publicly, officially, that in the law that you are preparing, about the referendum law, which will soon be at public consultation, introduce some new institutes, and that is how you introduce the Institute of Proturependum Initiatives. What I was talking about, as well as on the Committee on the Constitution, is that where there is a referendum initiative, there are, as a rule, those entities that are against it and who are campaigning against a referendum. By the logic of the matter, you now want to regulate that initiative that proposes a referendum and it will be subject to all the provisions of this law. However, pro-tourendum initiatives are not regulated at all by this law. For example, that I can explain it more simply to the citizens. Now the trade unions have already launched a procedure for an initiative to amend some provisions of the pension reform law. So they have already announced the question, they have published it in one daily list, the procedure has been launched, signatures will be collected in April, or May, so they respect all the provisions of the referendum law and they will actually be covered if this law enters into force and the provisions which oblige them to comply with the provisions on the financing of the referendum campaign. But what about those entities, and especially the government and its ministries, which will actively step up against the union referendum, their activity has in no way regulated the law. I warned that the government would normally be against such initiatives. Especially when it comes to proposals which are intended to be voted in the referendum, the decision to repeal a certain law or certain provisions of the law. And you're already on radio programmes today, TV shows where the government, its ministers and representatives are converging with union representatives. But union representatives will have to specify each kuna they spend through reports publicly. The government that will run an active campaign against the referendum is not obliged to do anything. However, according to all guidelines and the Venice Commission, it is unacceptable for the government to use public resources, budget money to campaign against a civil referendum. You don't even regulate this bill. The Slovenian Constitutional Court did just that, abolished some provisions of the Law on Referendum, annulled the result of a referendum in Slovenia because the government was using budget funds to run a protureferendum campaign. Yes, it was done by the Slovenian Constitution court. And he said the government should not have used one euro from the state budget because it is the money of all citizens to use it against some referendum initiative. There's no letter of that in your proposal. But it is certain that the government will come forward every day against the referendum that has been launched and which is already a reality, and we knew that soon some civil initiative, a union initiative, will be required to vote on some legal provisions, or with different solutions that call into question the pension reform proposed by this Government, and this parliamentary majority has voted. And will he be in the same, equal position? Trade unions that will have to explain publicly and write reports and government that will also lead a campaign in which they will not have to explain anything. And it's possible, some other entities will come forward against this referendum. And this is absolutely unacceptable in that way to regulate. First, the Law on Referendum was to be passed, and then to regulate these other issues. Anything else I couldn't say right now, we're going to say through the amendments that we're going to make to this final bill if it comes to a decision-making phase at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132503	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Milorad Batinic's turn in front of the Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132504	Thank you, Vice President, honorary secretary of state with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. Thank you, fellow Falcone, for letting me switch. In our first reading, we made very clear our observations that this law would make this bill better. Perhaps, in our court, a better solution. So I won't be too long on these things, I'm just going to repeat what's been brought above our club's point of view in the first reading, which is not respected, and we think that it can possibly still be corrected through amendments, and it can also be done through the government's amendments. We believe that this law defines, very important, necessary, very clearly and as accurately as possible, the way in which elections are financed, political activities, and the referendum itself. This addition to the referendum, although opposition from certain clubs, differs in that view, but we believe that it is more than necessary, for the very reason that referendums, regardless of the occasion, which initiatives, should, in order to gain importance, and equally, that the referendum, as one of the highest forms of democratic decision, should not fall into doubt or what should not be in political action. I will briefly refer to our remarks that we have and which we now also have, which are not corrected, this is part of the article, part of these prescribed amounts. 38. So the total amount of election promotion costs per candidate is the candidate for the President of the Republic or the President. Equally for selecting the mayor, the mayor of local self-government units. We proposed that these amounts be corrected to a lower level, regardless of what is not the largest part of the public money but also indirectly that the public money, however, the question of the political message that we want to send, respecting the standard of our citizens, is raised, primarily by certain other separations and activities that are happening in the political space. Therefore, our proposal was to reduce the amount by 20% instead of 8 million kuna in the presidential or president-in-Office of the Republic's election since it was defined in paragraph 4 of the same article that if it entered the personal campaigns in the second round, it would then add 20% to the amount prescribed in Article 38 of the Law for those candidates entering the second round. We believe that this amount is an acceptable solution, which is named 8 million for the President of the Republic, million kuna for the Mayor of Zagreb, 600,000 for mayors, mayors of large cities, 250,000 kuna in the mayoral elections, the mayor of JLS more than 10,000 inhabitants, etc., we believe that it should be reduced by 20% since in the event of a second round, that amount can be fully accepted as such. Although we believe that those who run for office who are the leaders of personal campaigns and generally political parties should behave more modestly with money, even though we are a company of capital, I think this consumer fever that can be read in certain political campaigns should still be a little more moderate and we should perform in that part. And I think it amounts that would be more than enough. We also had a dilemma about 4 million kunas, which is a bill for European elections. We can accept after consulting at the club, for the sake of great importance to us, these European elections. Just for what reason? The European elections take place this year, we see that through the activities of the resolution ministries intensively preparing for the new fiscal perspective of 2021-2027, we can also accept that the political parties that will run for their representatives on the lists in some way and through this campaign are even more sensitive to Croatian citizens to show the greatest interest in going out to the European Parliament elections, because it has now been seen especially in the last 2 years when they have more intensely moved towards attracting funds as important to the development of Croatia as well as to the development of the economy. As for a few more words about the referendum, whether it's a place in this law or in a special law, it's a topic that we can have different opinions on. But when it looks at what is the second referendum, rather than achieving political ideas and goals. In that logic, I see no reason why this law would not also regulate everything, how in what way it is necessary to appear in the reports and that this.../incomprehensible/... and that the referendum is also covered by this bill. With the other changes in principle, we agree. We also end up thinking that this law is extremely important and, of course, that if certain articles are seen through the practice of the upcoming elections, certain procedures will not be practical perhaps inapplicable, not entirely, it is very easy for us and, of course, on the holders of the executive government to correct this law through future periods exactly in a way that is more transparent, as clearly as possible, the flow of money and the financing itself, and I also think that responsibility is on us in Parliament what kind of message we will send to Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132505	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is one of the independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132506	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to say in a brief debate a few things that seem important to me regarding the adoption of this important law, and before that I just have to say that we will also submit an amendment to this bill, we hope that the representatives of the Government will consider it well to contribute to the better transparency of the financing of political parties, and on the other hand, to prevent possible corrupt actions within this important area. In democracy, there is no more important thing than choice. They say it is a democracy festival, in the political party's elections they face their political stances, their programmes and therefore voters give them confidence in the next term at any level of government to represent citizens and to work for the benefit of the largest number or almost all citizens regardless of who is in the stage of the election process for whom they voted. That is the essence and foundation of democracy. The democratic arrangement is not the best in the world, but it is the best we know and we must stick to it and therefore this law must contribute to better democratic relations and ultimately to fairer, more transparent elections, above all, because the purpose of political parties is to go to elections, we need to know that. Because between the two election cycles, the political party actually has a harder, harder part of the story, because it has to act in power, there must be answers, and on the other hand it is a better position because it has a better chance of using those successes for the promotion, of course and failures not to vote for them anymore. One of the basics, here, to explain the amendment that we are going to submit during this debate is about funding, and I have to admit that we don't have it at the club, although little of us in the club don't have a common position, but on behalf of the club, we're going to bear it, because it's democracy again, we voted 2:1, so we're going to put up with that amendment. Namely, in Art. In 46, it states who should not donate everything to the political parties and we will propose an amendment here, I hope that the Government examines it well, so that it may even correct it if necessary, so that there may be an amendment to the Government. It is the fact that we want to prohibit the donation of political parties to those natural and legal persons involved in public procurement procedures. which have public procurement contracts with units of local self-government, in fact with public budgets, and even public enterprises because this article already prohibits donations from public budgets, so, public money, and this would prevent those who participate in public procurement procedures, which have contracts with a certain threshold, we have set the threshold here 50,000.00 kn, it can be even bigger, to prohibit such donation. To be precise, the municipal chief can make regular arrangements with one legal person, whether it is a matter of supplying goods, services or works, and after that we have the case that this legal person is financing a political party from which it is quite random and that the chief, it is one of such a picturesque example, of course, if we pull it to a state level, then it is much more serious, and we want to prevent that amendment and make a contribution to public money financing because we see according to some political parties that, one sure that the revision has established, I think it is 2016. There is more, more income than citizens' donations than there is from the public budget, and that is what the amendment wants to prevent. In addition to this note, with this observation made by counterpart Podolnjak that he did indeed at the last moment really change the time of entry into force, I think that other things are not disputed for us, this law deals with the regulation of funding, that it is precisely and transparently known who is being financed and to what extent, whether this amount of 4 million kuna is now enough if this is intended for, because for the EU Parliament is a single electoral unit, indeed, whether this is enough because it is better to increase the threshold than to have a situation to finance political campaigns, so there is no actual bush on which there is no plaque, any other promotional material. What we need, too, should be compared in the context of this law to that of many mayors, many mayors, and under the cover of some newsletters, advertisers, so they use it regularly for their election promotions, and then part of the money is not shown realistically. We ask the Proposer to consider this amendment, and on the other hand, we have no reason not to support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132507	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Sokol will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132508	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, dear State Secretary, fellow MPs, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. This way, I would like to highlight this very first word, which is the final draft of the law. For what? Have we heard today in the assembly how this law is passed urgently, speedily, that people don't notice etc. etc. But what is important is that this is a second reading, so we had this law already in our first reading, we discussed it in HS, a series of proposals, amendments and amendments to this bill, which were then passed by parliamentary representatives and committees. So, I think a lot of people can't say that he's surprised by the passing of this law, or he can say that it was some kind of emergency procedure or something. While, on the other hand, at the time of the SDP's government's emergency procedures were, in HS, much more frequently, so, among other things, known so-called. Lex Perkovic, who was brought into an emergency procedure several days before EU entry, came into effect practically immediately and who later brought us into conflict with the authorities of the same EU that brought the Republic of Croatia into major troubles, so I don't think we can really accept these opposition remarks so that this law is passed so that someone doesn't think about it, so that someone doesn't know about it in time and so on. I think that such a habit of passing laws in strange circumstances, speedily, to go under the crowd has just some parties that are in opposition today. But well, what I would point out in this final bill, I think that's the key thing, that's the word transparency, so the point of this law is to increase transparency and supervision in financing political activities and that's what the public needs to know because that's what I think we all really want. So, among other things, there is regulation much better than so far, the obligation to deliver and publish financial reports, as well as the publication of reports on the monitoring carried out by the State Election Commission, that is one important newspaper. The second is what has been mentioned here several times, and it is about funding referendum campaigns. So what I think the public needs to know, so this law regulates and in a way that the same rules are applied in an appropriate way to the financing of political parties of elections, also to referendums. And what are the rules? That one rule I'd like to make, it's a regulation. 81st that foreign states, foreign legal persons and foreign political parties, as well as foreign natural persons, other than EU citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia, cannot finance referendum activities. So I ask who bothers? Is there anyone in the opposition who is vehemently opposed to this law, who wants the foreign centres to finance referendum campaigns in the Republic of Croatia and the referendum campaigns that can change the Constitution as the highest legal act of the Croatian State, now I don't really know whether some representatives of the Living Wall or the Most obviously most opposed to this law want someone outside to change, affect changes to the Croatian Constitution and the very essence of the functioning of the Croatian state. Maybe the people they've been with before, I don't know, but I don't see any reason why someone like this would object. That only prohibits outside influence on the foundations of the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia and increases the transparency of the full referendum procedure and the process of controlling political activities and the electoral and electoral rules themselves. So I really don't see how anyone can object to that who wants a good RH. Furthermore, I would stress the arrangements for the allocation of funds for regular annual funding in such a way that the funds for regular annual funding from the budget are allocated to political parties in proportion to the number of seats obtained or seats of members of the presidential body of self-government according to the final results of the elections, not at the time of the constitution as according to the solution so far. So the purpose of this provision is very clear. So we've had some, some opposition representatives and their parties, like I'm going to say the Open Living Wall, they can say that because they openly call HDZ who because of some of their internal conflicts, division and that I'm not going into all the details, were a little bit in one party, on one election list, then at the moment the constitution of the assembly belonged to another party and to that other party which is practically non-existent is one present representative of the Living Wall to gain an unsuitable financial benefit from over a million kuna. And this law makes such a thing impossible, just one of the purposes of this law is to watch the moment of publication of the final election, the moment of publication of the final election results to prevent such situations and that the financing of political parties corresponds to the will of Croatian citizens. I really don't see what that's about? It may bother the representatives of the Living Wall because they have who knows what their perhaps private combinations with some other parties and other political options, but that is not in the interest, such behaviour is not in the interest of Croatian citizens and in general in the public interest. So, the issue of elections for the European Parliament, there is indeed, indeed, a lot of things said, so I would like to explain briefly what this is about because perhaps through this cacophony it was not clear enough. It is therefore proposed to increase the maximum amount from 1.5 million kuna to 4 million kuna to fund the European elections campaign. What's the logic of that? So the logic of that is seen from the law itself, let's compare funding for other types of choice with these elections. So the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament set the limit of one and a half million kuna per election unit, so we have 1.5 million kuna per constituency, so I don't think it really makes sense for the European elections where all of Croatia is one electoral unit, where the automatic costs are much higher because all parts of Croatia need to be visited, to allow all citizens to hear candidates and to address all citizens, including those less available parts of Croatia, of course the costs are higher. So I think it's in everyone's interest that the campaign comes into really all Croatian counties, all municipalities and cities and that citizens hear what their candidates have to say. And that is why it is more logical to be 4 million kunas than to be the same amount reserved for parliamentary elections for a single constituency that includes perhaps 2, 3 counties. Some parties may not have developed infrastructure, some parts of Croatia may not be interested because they have turned defacto into regional parties, so they don't need, they don't need a larger amount, that's what might bother them, but still it's not about the public interest, it's about the particular interests of certain opposition parties. And that's what needs to be emphasized here. Furthermore, as regards these remarks regarding how much money anyone has, even in terms of the amount of funds the parties have is proportional to two things. The first is citizens' trust, so the more you get citizens' trust in parliamentary elections, the more money you have. The fact that some parties who have turned into marginal parties unfortunately will not get, do not get enough budget funding to wish for themselves again is not a problem for Croatian citizens but for them. But that personal problem should not be imposed here as a general, general state problem. So whoever has greater confidence in citizens gets more resources, so that's what's important. Also, more funds are received by those who have more members, that some parties after years and years of existence are unable to form local branches, which they are not interested in increasing the number of members but are all solved in some narrow.../incomprehensible/... of several people and therefore do not have enough funding from membership fees that is their problem, but it is not a problem for Croatian citizens. The fact that HDZ may have the largest number of members paying membership fees, the fastest-developed branches covering all parts of the Republic of Croatia, where there is no difference between developed and less developed. The fact that the HDZ as a party that won the citizens' highest trust in the parliamentary elections and therefore has the most resources at its disposal, that is, that is, that is, the citizens have decided. And what bothers some people is primarily their problem. As far as European elections are concerned, we often hear that the interest in European topics is insufficiently large, that people are not sufficiently directed to what the EU means, so the arguments from the opposition parties that are now against this law have been mentioned that, that most laws or regulations are being passed in the EU etc., etc., and that is why this problem should be addressed through a stronger campaign, through a stronger campaign through which citizens will get acquainted with European topics, that is what we want, and that is why I think that should be invested. Finally, the European Parliament also has great powers. We often hear from some uninformed opposition MPs who already see themselves in this European Parliament, and they say in parallel that this parliament is just a parlage that it has no authority, we hear, we hear anything. However, I would just point out, so the European Parliament, without the consent of the European Parliament, cannot be appointed by the European Commission, cannot enter into office, can't adopt the annual EU budget, and as counterpart Batinic said, there is no EU's 7-year financial perspective that will be negotiated next year, following these European elections where the European Parliament will have a great role and how it will play a major role, and this financial perspective is of paramount importance for Croatia, because we will have to fight and we will also be working on it by our elected European representatives, I hope everyone who is elected will look at public interest rather than particular interests, so that in Croatia at least those funds from cohesion policies that are at its disposal. And that is crucial for Croatia. So we are in a situation where we have a series of investments, both at local level, at the level of large state projects, such as the Peljega Bridge, are financed right from European funds. And fighting for these European funds is something that is of paramount importance to us. That is why these elections for the European Parliament are important to us, to get the highest quality representatives, who will fight in the best quality and best way for Croatian interests in Brussels. And for that very reason, I really don't see who's bothering that campaign at one high and serious level. Perhaps, I say, it bothers those who do not have enough resources, who do not have enough members, who may have been executed by some of their former members, as the biggest opposition party, and then also because of that they have financial problems, but still, if someone is unable to run their own party finances, it is really a question of whether we want such persons and such political parties to lead both state finances, such European finances. So it is clear that it is clear that some are bothered by this increase and that this is an increase and good, and that Croatian citizens really need to get as much information about the EU as possible, so that they can make the best decision in these elections and that is the excuse, which is why this law increases those funds and I think that anyone who thinks about the subject will welcome it. Also, there were certain remarks in the first reading, I already mentioned, so a lot of them were adopted, which also shows that the government was not trying beyond the Parliament, past public attention by force to push the laws, but rather dabbs. Here, I would like to point out the provision, relating to Article 53(2), which is prescribed that by revising political parties of independent representatives and independent council members whose annual incomes of assets are shown in annual financial reports of less than 230 thousand kuna. The State Audit Office is not required to perform, so that limit has been lowered from 230 thousand kuna to 100 kn. Which means that most, more political entities are subject to mandatory audit by the State Audit than it was in the first reading, i.e. in the first draft of the law. Which also shows that the fundamental objective and purpose of this law, precisely transparency, is to strengthen the supervision of political activities, both political parties, elections and referendums, and that is what protects the public interest and what I think everyone should welcome. After all, the HDZ Representatives Club has carefully considered this law, some of our remarks have been adopted. It certainly improves the supervision, control and transparency of the political system, makes it impossible, can be manipulations, foreign centres of power, which would try to influence the very nature and structure of the Croatian constitutional legal system and precisely for the sake of all these movements, the HDZ Club supports this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132509	Thank you for the next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132510	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State. For all those who do not know, unlike the Croatian Parliament, therefore, the Croatian Parliament, the European Parliament is not tied to the confidence of the government. So in the European Parliament you do not have an extraordinary election, except in those situations, as it was in 2013. where a Member State enters the European Parliament. So, from 1979 to today, elections for the European Parliament take place in a regular cycle. For some time, they were at 1st or 2nd weekends of 6th month and in 2009 and by 2014 respectively, and now 2019 will be about the last weekend of the 5th month. That the elections will be around 25 and 26 May 2019 now know for 10 years, means not since yesterday, not from a month ago, not from a year ago, we know that for 10 years. And that's why the fascinating explanation of my respected predecessor, and the ruling majority, is that this change that is now proposed by the premature stage of action is necessary, respected colleagues and colleagues, you didn't do your job well, you didn't plan well, and then you realized at the last minute, that if you want to increase the funds that you can spend in a campaign for European elections, you have to do it like this. You will, of course, do so, because the Committee on Legislatives has proposed an amendment, it is sufficient that the State Secretary, if it has not already said, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts it and that is it. We will not vote on this amendment, and on certain ingredients, the ruling majority, which from time to time... That they possess any autonomy of decision, depends on whether they will ultimately support it, but in no case at all, I have no doubt about it, and we will adopt this law, in this form and on Friday. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's almost clear today, and then on us as an opposition, it's just to explain why we won't and can't support it. Unlike one of my predecessors, who also from the opposition, who says there's no reason not to support this law, I'll say there's no reason to support this law. Yes indeed, compared to first reading, there are certain and there are positive changes, it should not be denied, it is a fact. The fact is, these laws, they require regular service, in order to comply with all those... which Croatian citizens and Croatian politicians also know how to make. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When the basic law was passed 10 years ago, it didn't occur to anyone, that someone could from the moment of the election, to the moment of Parliament's constitution, move to another political party or form a new political party, it is today not only reality, but something that often happens. And of course it should be sanctioned, because it's an apparent con voter. And that's why it's good to address it in this law. It is good that this law addresses and accepts what we have proposed as an opposition, that all sanctions go from political to independent bodies or that independent bodies, specifically the DIP, will be the ones to sanction. But, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, that's all that's good, what's wrongly far surpasses good things in this law. And I'll start with what we first read, and I'll start with what we warned in the first reading, and we'll give a clear warning about what would happen and what the rulings didn't accept. Art. 19th annual donations, we have a donation limit for legal persons of £200,000 per year, but respected colleagues and colleagues are not mentioned related societies. So, for example, Agrokor or whatever it's called today, it can donate £200,000,00, and then every component of that concert is another £200,000,00, so where's the limit? He's gone, but that's not all. From window No. We have an art number two. 29th, which speaks of donations for individual elections and this article says that these donations are not actually accumulated with those donations for annual funding. And respected secretary of state, you're here as a representative of the government, so I'm going to come directly to you, that some solution, was in the current bill, doesn't mean that it's in itself good, that all the solutions in the existing law were good, the law shouldn't be changed at all. This is, for example, a solution that was extremely bad, and now I'm going to give you an example, let's take a hypothetically one company that is also known for donations to HDZ, which is also known for donations by the presidents of the Republic of Croatia, although, of course, in return for that donation, there was also one pardon, Lana Group. For example, Lana's group this year, if we're looking at an art. 19. The HDZ could only be donated £200,000 because it's an art form. The 19th only restriction there is, you cannot donate more than 200,000,00 kn, but that Lana group, besides that 200,000,00 kn, can donate another 200,000,00 kn to the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia, can also donate an additional 200,000,00 kn to the HDZ for the European Parliament elections. In 2021, when we have local elections, they will be able to donate their candidate for the City of Zagreb and their candidate for mayor of Zagreb, etc., because these restrictions are not cumulative. When you count how many units of local self-government there are in the Republic of Croatia it will be clear to you that in the year in which we have local elections, in fact there is no limit to funding political activity and that is bad and that should be changed. However, the ruling did not accept it. Let's move on, another example I set in my first reading. The way financial reports are done, we have indicated that the law provides for them to be done on a monetary basis, we have asked for the principle of creation to be applied instead of the monetary principle. I am not an economist, so I have consulted some experts to the extent that I can understand them, the texts, and it clearly states that the principle of creation is used in making financial reports, in order to show all the obligations that exist for individual entrepreneurs, and not just those that are paid. What does that mean exactly? 2017 You will all remember the City of Zagreb, you will all remember how the City of Zagreb was flooded with posters by Milan Bandić, and then a preliminary financial report is done and Milan Bandic shows zero. I was hoping that the recent elections in Lico-Senj County would offer you to react to this remark and to install what I was saying in my first reading. Why? Because the same thing Milan Bandic did, in the Lika-Senj County, was done by Dado Milinovic, taped the county with his posters, and in the financial reports zero. When will he show how much money he spent? Of course, when the elections pass, when it no longer matters, when the State's audit or the State's Attorney's Office will eventually be done, how, unfortunately, too often in the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this at first sight acts as a simple remark, but it is not, this is a concrete remark to a law that will have concrete consequences. In fact, according to this, we're cementing the authority of local sheriffs in certain units of local self-government. Why? Because precisely they have the ability to condition entrepreneurs who provide services in their territory, not to pay them immediately, those who have no authority and who oppose anyone from whatever party they are from, that possibility rarely or never has. And that's why we're allowing local sheriffs to stay in their chairs forever, and I think that's something that wasn't an intensity when we changed the law, it seems we've opted for a direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, etc. And for the end, perhaps the greatest objection to this law. Unlike some colleagues, we in the SDP do not feel that the issue of funding for the referendum should not be regulated, however, we consider it necessary. Furthermore, we do not think that this should be arranged by some special, other law. The law governing the issue of financing political activities is the right place to settle and finance the referendum. And why is that? Well, because the referendum is political activity. The referendum is a political activity that decides on important political issues for one community, whether the municipality, the city, the county, ultimately and for the Republic of Croatia. So where else to arrange the funding of the referendum than in a law governing the financing of political activities. But then, respected colleagues and colleagues need to go logically, first to define what we need to change in the referendum. In the SDP, we believe that the constitution needs to be changed, you do not necessarily have to agree and disagree. From the messages given by the resolution minister, which I am extremely sorry that unlike his colleagues, Butkovic did not consider his duty to be here, and colleague Butkovic came here today for much... The important law of this, you think it's enough to change the Law on Referendum and you're on your way okay, we accept, it may be your vision, but if we know that we're going to change the Law on Referendum, so is it logical that we are regulating how the referendums will be financed in accordance with this law, which you and we both know is wrong and does not regulate a good area. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, you decided to start from the end, first edit funding and then edit referendums, topics, places of signing, deadlines, etc. But okay, and it can even be accepted if we say so well, we'll sort it out later but what's now in force, we still need to define how it's going to be financed. But then you have one completely logical mistake about what you're funding. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we read what the law says, the only form of funding that has been arranged is the form of a referendum initiative in which a certain group of citizens initiates the collection of signatures and the calling of a referendum on the basis of the citizens' initiative. And now I ask you a question, whether other referendum forms cannot be financed at all, for example, by those who want to be against a specific referendum issue, such as in the case of a referendum on marriage when we talk about civil initiatives, or even in those situations where institutional promoters, such as the Government, the Parliament, etc., decide to call a referendum such as the EU referendum. If we are strictly reading this law, none of these forms of participation in a particular referendum initiative should be financed, which would mean, for example, that now and this will apply to this initiative, in the case of a referendum on the pension system, those who advocate the referendum have the right to finance, have the right to promote, and those who oppose it do not. So what do we have? We'll only have one-sided promotion. And respected colleagues and colleagues, it is deeply contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which in Article 14(2) says "All are equal before the law" because you do not treat those who are in the same way for something and those who are against something and in the democratic system that rests among others and in the conflict of opinion, it is something that must be treated equally as much as we agree on something. And the correct colleague, Poddolnjak, points out that decision taken by the Slovenian Constitutional Court, which is why he abolished the results of the referendum because the government has inappropriately engaged in the referendum campaign. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all of this I have stated is enough reason not to support the adoption of this law but also not to propose amendments. Why? Because we think that given all these remarks that apply when you look at their numbers on over 1/3 of the provisions of this law, this law is simply impossible to fix. And the law that is impossible to fix simply makes no sense to submit amendments. This law should either go into third reading or be withdrawn after adoption or even better parallel to the proposal of the Referendum Act, to be adopted in a form which will be in conformity with that law. And let me finish something I didn't mean to talk about because I only wanted to concentrate on what can be said by professional remarks, but my colleague Sokol offered me. You're talking about the financial problems of the SDP that really exist, which is caused by no one else down yours, and I'm going to say so, the most reliable and dearest coalition partner. If you are already objecting to us for his marifetluke, then think about why you are working with him and why you accept his purchase of MPs keeps most of us in the Croatian Parliament. But think about something else. I hope you, too, have read the article in the recent National where it is said that the funding of HDZ from the black funds has begun again. So we can read that for the 2015 elections, in black form the HDZ sat down to some million euros, from which the second one is lower than Mr. Mamic. So when we read all this, then it remains to be said, is there any point in passing this law when you will find a way around it and break it anyway? Thanks again, SDP can't support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132511	The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU, the name to be spoken by the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132512	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. In the second reading, we have an extremely important law. There is virtually no criterion on which the success of the Republic of Croatia is measured so that the conclusions of such analyses do not mention an extremely high level of corruption as a key problem for Croatian society. This note bene means, above all, the Croatian state or politics as such. And numerous analyses suggest that the non-transparentity of funding for political parties and candidates in the election is one of the generators not only of political instability but also of inaccessible actions in political life that open up space for different disciplines between politics, businesses, many stakeholders. In fact, many of the trials that have been under way over the last few years reveal actually such a model of action that money that is not shown is, therefore, those that are given in cash or in other inadmissible ways, actually formed later political decisions or the status of certain political persons both in society and in front of law enforcement. It is therefore extremely important for the health of the nation, for the political culture on the one hand, and on the other hand for the functioning of the political system to constantly lead an open but successful fight against corruption, in this case political corruption through the constant rise of standards of transparency of the financing of political actors. Our practice shows in the past few years that various types of political activity have suffered from different levels of very serious political intransparency, particularly non-transparency in the financing and colleagues who spoke before me, mentioned a whole series of eclectic examples that are fully known in the public, such as financing elections for the mayor of Zagreb, who have never experienced their legal consensus. Moreover, these cases are almost used to make the whole public laugh in the face and tell me nothing can. The story of black funds and the financing of political parties, but also more and more loud information about the fact that political competitions, not only in Croatia, but in a whole series of European countries, financial injections, include some foreign sources, in concrete cases, talk about the power of a non-European country, or a country, which is not a member of the EU, to a whole range of populist and anti-European parties, so that is something about us and the question is whether we will already be in this election for the European Parliament, in a way that is clear, that different types of influence, through funding, but also lobbying, are already functioning in our nearest environment. It is not surprising, therefore, that French President Macrone, a few days ago in his address to the Europeans, and that means to us, stressed the problem and proposed the establishment of a special agency, which will oversee the financing of political parties in Europe from sources that are not European. That's a serious question, we almost don't touch it. Therefore, in raising the transparency of the financing of political actors, it is extremely important that this takes place at 2 levels both in technical and essential. As far as the bill's proposal is concerned, we note, indeed, that compared to the solutions so far, there is a whole series of technical improvements. The practice has shown that many with substances, primarily thanks to GONG analyses and expertise, the State Election Commission, that some things should be changed, improved and this proposal includes. But we still don't see a fundamental improvement, because let's just say one single provision, which leaves a huge space for political corruption here, is enough to make this law completely unacceptable. And that is a provision, mentioned earlier by counterpart Peja Grbin, which in fact does not allow the accumulation in limiting the financing of political parties and their candidates in one calendar year. So there's a space for abuse almost unlimited. Because if the elections match, with multiple levels in one year or if the elections match, another with local elections, where you have a lot of candidates, at the level of the entire country, because it's hundreds of units of local self-government, then there's a place where you can play the restriction clause unlimited. Therefore, the provision should contain, a formulation of related societies and a restriction at the level of one applicant. So, if one political party is a proposing, at different levels, that restriction must refer to it as such, and not to candidates as such, because candidates, as we know, when they perform in the elections, as one's candidates, do not appear on their own but also on the name of their promoter. What also bothers us is a provision, which actually enables retroactiveness. On today, we'll discuss this, there'll be a vote on Friday. Elections for the European Parliament must be held within the next few days, practically by the 25th and 26th of this month respectively. There is no physical view, space, for this law to come into effect before such a decision and it is obvious that intensities, that a new limitation of campaign funding means for European elections, rising from a million and a half to 4 million, will therefore also apply to the next European elections, i.e., elections that are just ahead of us. It is unacceptable, because in such a small and narrow space of time, this law is as if only two parties were written in that provision. This is not correct according to the political system and the political party system, and it is at least correct towards the EU transparency. In that sense, we will propose an amendment to this law, we have released it in the procedure, which defines a new deadline for entry into force of this law, so that it does not reflect on elections for the European Parliament, which will be held at the end of May and generally taken, we are unable to support such a proposal, because, as I said, I will repeat, I will essentially not resolve key issues and will remain the focus of those observers of political events, which conclude that political parties in the Republic and their candidates are in a large area of gray zone, when it comes to the transparency of the financing of their campaigns. And that there is still a huge space for abuses, for interesting and political integration beyond the institutions and past the rules defined by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132513	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS, in the name of which will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132514	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, State secretary, electoral law in the Croatian or Croatian state, one topic that would be discussed for a very long time. If the real truth were known, about money flows, services, return services, those who donated money, I think that this country, for a long, long time, would shake, if it could come out, but it's very well hidden, what was caught deep in some drawers beneath large piles and I doubt that the public will ever know the truth about the money flows associated with any possible elections in the Republic. It's been 20 years. The electoral legislation, which allows HDZ to rule, is in force. Several of the last parameters of the election are unconstitutional because, the Constitutional Court confirmed, they are non-constitutional electoral units. The electoral law allows the election of MPs to be irregular in HS because the number of voters in 10 constituencies does not exceed the legal provision of 5+ or 5%, but it is now also two-digit percentages. There's even a 30% difference somewhere. The question arises what kind of state does not respect its own constitution? What kind of authority does she know has been chosen against the constitution? And this law is also a waste of sand in the eyes and representatives, but also for Croatian voters, and especially for taxpayers. Most of us have agreed here and agree that without radical change of electoral legislation there will be no fair elections, no fair authorities. But it is evident that the rulings in the Republic of Croatia are not only fair, justice and justice, not only under this law, but also by the many laws that are passed in this House of Commons. As the election units look to us, it's comical. For example, the seventh from Jarun to the Adriatic. Zagreb, divided into 4 electoral units. Why? Because HDZ knows that it can never get Zagreb and then it ends, multiplys, subtracts, collects, so that the power can be exercised. Unfortunately, the financial discipline of all these elections and election laws is always carried out on small and not only election laws, but also on all laws in the Republic of Croatia, while large, those who are in power, simply do not take the necessary steps, nor do they want to make bills. The great urgency of passing, I agree that a million and a half kuna for the entire constituency, the entire Republic of Croatia, is not enough money for one campaign. But, as I see it, my predecessors also said that the whole law should be changed and that with such articles, additions, nothing is simply changing, but only worsening and this bad law. It's clear to all of us that the election is spending too much money. Why? Especially since it is taxpayers' money, it is mostly taxpayers' money, not only the one allowed to spend on the campaign, but also the one spent on pre-compacts, and here, we saw in the last campaign in Lika-Senj County where the entire team of ministers with all the glare of the rolling stock they have, with many people who had to arrange for them a place where they will come, when we would sum up all the costs that the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian budget have made. The ministries, and not put into the cost of the election campaign. Citizens see all this and of course they accuse us because it's their money and they rightly accuse political parties and politicians of what's going on and how they spend the money paid for by the poor or those who fight from the first to the first to survive. £200,000, what does a political option have to return to a certain legal person to donate £200,000 to that political option, however beautiful and smart it is? Most of the time, it's coming back, with what? With taxpayers' money, all the services that are done and returned to such companies that policy returns, returns taxpayers' money, not out of their pocket, but unfortunately, it is nowhere to be seen directly, and where it is seen, it closes their eyes there. I believe that the time should come to start telling the truth about this spending of money, that many should be or should end up in Remitance at the singing choir and simply stop stealing this people and show themselves as if some political options were very large and successful, and in fact it is about robbing Croatian people. And whatever law we touch, it's always hitting on that little man who has to pay that little tax, the one who has to separate from his mouth, who pays 25% of the VAT on everything he buys and on every kuna he makes you, and the gentlemen who ride in big nice limos laugh, brag, so here's some who don't even know whose car they have in the yard, I don't know what kind of house owners or courtyards or bosses are when they don't know whose car is parked in the yard, I'd sure know if someone left me a car in the yard. But every day, however, things come out that point to what I'm saying, to steal money from taxpayers, because they seem to be concessions to some companies, individuals, powers, interest groups and all to the harm of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132515	Thank you. Now, we're going to move on to an individual debate and the first person to come forward is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132516	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honored secretary, colleague and colleague. We are talking about a very important law that touches the financing of political parties and referendums in... They thought about pears and apples, and about this Law a minimum dose of decency, but when he came here against procedure in the debate, that there was Minister Lovro Kuščević or so-called minister as he loves to call himself Praised Jesus, that he was here, and that he explained to us this, this proposal or this many violations of the Constitution and anti-constitutional actions, it has happened to us so far, that it is the interest of the parties to get, that, uh, to get power without breaking the Constitution, that is, without the will of the people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would immediately start my speech with a basic provision, namely the two Constitutions, which says in Article 1, paragraph 2, in the Republic of Croatia, the government comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens. Immediately in Article 3, listen well, the people exercise power by selecting their representatives and making direct decisions. Are we colleagues and colleagues here, now that this Act is against procedure, the secretary is respected on request because the chairman did not want to withdraw this point, that is to say to interrupt this session, was interrupted by Mr Petrov, Mr Furio Radin, no matter what we do not have the opinion of the Committee on this important topic, there is no minister, I must say that what this authority is doing on the referendum, that this is the twilight of democracy, the twilight of the violation of the Constitution, and above the Constitution is no one concerning the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this earthly world, so what have you done with the referendum "People decide"? Have any of you MPs seen maybe the invalid signatures of 40,000 signatures? Four hundred thousand people signed it. It's nobody. And colleagues and colleagues from the majority, you voted not to implement this referendum, which is why I am telling you that simply by the triba special law to edit the referendum. It is the constitutional obligation of this House, that the referendum, direct democracy, be governed by one special law, by the law that our people who elected us as representatives will have, as well as in other countries, the right to decide directly, as examples in Switzerland or other Western states. But if we are calling for Western democracy, if we are calling for the European Union, no matter what the Croatian people are when they enter the European Union, in that year the Law is changed that you should not go out 50% + 1 voter, and now you are doing the same again, just before the EU elections Parliament, you are essentially replacing the Law on Election Promotion, by mixing the referendum that you are making it difficult, means you are violating the Constitution, you are, the only thing we have to do to make it easier for people to plead, regardless of whether we are asking the referendum, whether we are amending the Constitution, whether we are amending certain articles of the Law, certain provisions, or if some civil law initiatives want to change the whole of the law, if we are going through, that is the will of the people, and that is what is described in the Constitution, in Article 1, in the basic provisions. So you're breaking this constitution. Even to avoid this referendum that was surrounding the election law, even the government story appeared, from Prime Minister Plenkovic and Lovra Kusčević, to go on, because of the stability to go on a relative winner, to the gratis mandates as it was in fascist Italy during Mussolini and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia during Karadzic. So you're gratising the mandate. And that we, as the High House, accept? To accept the law, to talk and to violate the Constitution before the elections themselves to pass the law on the financing of political promotion for the EU elections? It's a violation of the Constitution, and it's retroactively without the government's opinion, and we're discussing it instead of having the chairman withdrawing after the break, here it is now, I asked the gentleman, regrets, and now he would ask Mr. Reiner, the vice president to withdraw this law, to interrupt the session, did the Knin Queen not have the power to withdraw this law,... I know that Lovro Kuščević would not forgive it, and the Prime Minister, I believe that she from the City of Knin, that she would protect as the City of Knin of Victory, the city of pride, again, I repeat, at least one of the happiest days of my life when I saw Knin in front of me from the direction of the Grahovac Dinara, I didn't believe, I think that this mood and that joy that we had when we went to free Knin, that we had thrown these into battle, because we were breaking the Constitution of the distinguished secretary, Queen Knin, as you liked to call ourselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even the songbooks about you were sung, so a little courage, that junk, the courage of the Dalmatian Zagora, don't kill democracy, but if Lovro Kuščević has to, don't, don't break the Constitution of colleagues and colleagues. I believe that you will end up withdrawing this Act because you are aware that there is no respect for the procedure, we have no opinion of the current Committee, we are changing funding in the year or before the EU itself and I see no reason not to withdraw this and to separate the referendum from the party campaign, from the financing of political parties, this should be a special law on direct democracy and the referendum is sacred according to this, described in the first article of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I know that the founder Vladimir Seks is, I know that he is now looking for a pre-combination to be a gratis of mandates, he will not say it publicly, but Lovre Kuščević will say it and Prime Minister Plenkovic will say it, but before Lovre Kuščević is now out of his mind. Do not kill the will of the majority, the will of the majority of the people comes from power, it is described in the constitution and it is a fundamental principle, it is a fundamental provision, the first in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Why would he make fun of 400,000 people? What makes this Law on the financing of political parties mess with the referendum? While the government is going to campaign, here's a referendum on pension, tomorrow I don't know what the anti-campion is going to be about, it's not mandatory, the government won't have any obligation to file financial accounts as much as it's invested in this counter-campion against the referendums, it has no obligation, there's no provision to say, that the government will, as in this House of Commons, have the same right to give a financial report, and there's no financial report in these provisions, which means, once again, I call on this bill, this bill of law, colleagues and colleagues, we, like in this House of Commons, have to do anything to make sure that such drafts of the law don't come on the agenda. First of all, there's a breach of procedure, one at a time. Two, we break the constitution, the procedure is because we have no opinion, two, so we don't have, so the constitution is broken, in a few months, the elections are still, they're going through campaigns now, it's similar when it was, when the elections were. when there was a vote on joining the EU, when it was changed that 50 + 1 voters had passed that not the tribune be 50% + 1, but as far as it came out, in the election year. Here, just for democracy's sake, we protect this constitution, we are representatives of the people of this House, if we are, if we are not, of course, this silence will pass, most of us will vote on Friday, but I believe you will still protect the dignitate. This high house is where you come from. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132517	We've got replicas, the first respected representative of Mark Sladolev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bulj, therefore, just consider how many harmful laws would be prevented if in some way the people had more influence on these decisions through some key laws. So we have the fact that very little referendum was held in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, that when some other countries have a very much more referendum than we have, therefore, how many harmful laws have been passed in this House of Commons that instead of political elites have decided the people, therefore, about it. And as for the political parties, here, and the financing of political parties, therefore, exactly two years passed when the Most took the political parties 15 million kuna with its amendment and awarded it to Croatian science, just a reminder of the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132519	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132520	My colleague, this is what you last said, it's a fact, but as far as the referendum itself or direct direct democracy is concerned, where people decide in democratic societies and states, I'm saying, here's an example of Switzerland, from environmental, economic issues, we have a referendum, not in the Republic of Croatia being strengthened, for example, mayors, mayors, lex sheriffs, meaning that the power of the lex sheriffs, so the assembly doesn't exist at all. We now have a situation that examples, sold to telecoms, asked the people, did the people who paid for the shares, did not, was INA sold, asked the people, so we are important economic operators or about the exclusive economic belt were asked about the people and the only thing that was done when it was going to other integrations when before the elections to increase amounts to finance political parties and so on. and here we must separate the referendum, it is our constitutional obligation, Art. 1 To protect [[Intruder: Thank you...]] The will of the people. [[Next, next...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132521	...replication is the respected representative of Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132522	Thank you, Vice President. So, Mr. Bull, you called us here from most of us, did we see 400,000 signatures for the referendum? Unfortunately, we haven't seen them, we couldn't see them because there weren't 400,000 of them, you're aware yourself that there were later collected after the referendum time was over another 10 days, and then copying, and then signing other persons, alone, one of the organizers of the referendum, here's Mr. Zekanovic, who, unfortunately, isn't here now, 3 days before the end of the referendum of time, said we couldn't collect, we're not going to be able to succeed, he said it himself which is the organizer of it and now suddenly after that comes 400,000, so something's wrong. And that's why it's this bill of law to make it right, to make it right because it's going to be a real referendum, and then we really believe what the citizens are going to sign and sign really, not someone else's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132523	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132524	First of all, as far as I'm concerned, the People decided was a civil initiative, the people decided on changing the electoral law, not a colleague Zekanovic, I was the coordinator of a number of initiatives and let's choose a representative by name and last name, that I don't list other initiatives and I know how to collect it, and that's a huge problem, that's the people of volunteers and the entire anti-camp of the Government looked like in Lica, so there was more to the elections, so there was an anti-campion against the referendum, there were more ministers in Lica, there were more ministers, there were no ministers from the ministers, and there was no one minister behind every beech, more than, behind every beech was behind every beech, there was a minister in Lica, and there were more ministers in Lici, there were more ministers, and because of this law and of deception, I didn't talk about 400,000, but the unsamit was not even the seven signed, because the number of the number of the number of the people who were not able to sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132525	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132526	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are facing the Final Proposal for the Law on the financing of political parties and referendums, one has little to do with the other, but with the ruling majority, nothing should surprise us. As we have already established during the first reading, this Law essentially gives political parties who have far too much money, gives even more money, and it is embarrassing that in front of Croatian citizens, who therefore live often on the very edge of existence, we send a message that the most rewarding interest in the Republic of Croatia is to be a politician. We also see these days that politicians who enter different parties, enter with very modest incomes, with very modest assets, then soon move into construction ventures, I don't know, buy the most expensive cars, jewelry, purses, watches and so on, and basically we have to ask ourselves whether part of this money that is now given to these parties and politicians actually ends in private pockets, not for purpose, and not for purpose, is being spent as intended by this Law. This is if Croatian citizens don't know, and I suppose one big majority doesn't know what this Law provides, means every man running for President of the Republic has the right to spend 8 million kunas in the campaign, every party running for the Croatian Parliament has the right to spend 15 million kunas in the campaign, so far it's 1.5 million, from now on it's spent on each list of 4 million kunas. You won't believe it, but even when someone is running for head of the municipality, they have the right to spend 250,000 kuna in the campaign. And now you tell me, there's a lot of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that don't even have a million kuna budget, the original budget, means the municipality doesn't have a million kuna budget, and it's right, I don't know how to spend it in a campaign for the head and the same Municipality of 2 million kunas, because if more candidates apply, and every spending, I don't know, 250 thousand kunas, so you think what's the interest at all, so why would someone spend so much money to become, I don't know, president of something, what's even less worth than he's invested in money? And then, normally, we can think that it's not really a reason to do something useful, it's that many see an opportunity to take care of themselves through politics, to take care of themselves not only by drawing out budget money, but by literally corruption, bribery, nepotism and so on. There are many people I have talked to about their motives for entering politics, and they have told me quite frankly, in my face, without any twisting, I am dealing with politics to take care of myself and my family, and these are very, very wrong motives, very bad motives, this, and basically motives that kill any hope in the better future of Croatian citizens. I'd like to be explained to me by the Secretary of State of Rome, but she's not going to explain it to me, she's just looking at me like this under her glasses, she can hear me, and this one, what are those lists supposed to spend four million kunas on the upcoming election, what are the costs? Can't this same candidate be introduced normally, I don't know, like HRT where all candidates are represented on equal terms, can't, I don't know, hold some press conferences like any other citizen, which is spent on these 4 million kunas? And finally, this one, if we don't introduce some kind of inequality among the candidates, because it turns out only one who has money can win the election, so we're going into some kind of Americanization, the election gets who has millions in the account. Whoever doesn't, can't get into the media, can't get on posters, can't get on this, can't get on other advertising means. Is it democracy, or is it in some way buying, buying votes, buying mandates and one general inequality? As for these referendums, the government clearly sees danger in any referendum. They will, of course, always get away with the People's Decision initiative and so on, because they know it irritates one part of the public, but tell me, for example, what is the problem with this Union initiative to carry out a referendum that doesn't have to work until 67 years? So far, the only party that has supported this referendum is the Living Wall. Why don't the other parties back it up? Why don't we all support it when we're all retired tomorrow? Why would that be impossible? Because we see that he wants to disable himself, because we see that now different bureaucratic obstacles are being introduced, he's going to jump, he's going to check, he's trying to scare people, this one, who are conducting a referendum, especially those who would like to donate. This is where you introduce even such a nebulous, nebulous provision like an art. The 68th century 5th, that if a natural person has any debts, he cannot donate to a referendum initiative. Why couldn't you? We have, so, a secure account, we have a protected account institute, and what do you care about some person who gets money on a secure account, spends money? With what right do you interfere in their privacy, with what right? The state took what the law allowed it to take, so it took away the average wages and everything above that and then left the people alone. Now, you say, you can spend money, I don't know, on bread and milk, but you can't support a referendum initiative even with 5.00. So this clearly shows the intention to prevent referendums, and that is general policy, unfortunately, and the EU. The EU also does not submit referendums, I repeat, only to remember the referendum initiatives for the Tito agreement, for a water privatisation agreement or a referendum on the secession of Catalonia and to understand what the EU thinks of referendums. And what's the key point? The key point is that the people have a different opinion from the Government, it's a problem and the government doesn't want to simply allow a different opinion, it doesn't want to allow the people's opinion, just so it's declarative, when the president calls out, we'll be like Switzerland, so come on, in Switzerland, you have 12 referendums a year, let's be like Switzerland, but we won't be, we'll be Switzerland only by clock production or by clocking, but Switzerland by holding a referendum, it won't be, even though in Switzerland, I don't know, we't even know whether cows can be cut by horns or not, and even if a woman is allowed to wear a veil over her face, whether to build a minaret or not to be allowed to do any of that, nobody will tell Switzerland, I don't know what kind of catholiban, what kind of name the state labels are, everyone's going to say it's to be a lot. What's with all the fear? E, but when the referendum was allowed, a referendum for EU entry could then change even the constitution, that is, that is, the hypocrisy that permeates this law and in fact which was the root cause of its adoption. One, give politicians more money, two as much as possible to limit the influence of voters themselves on decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132527	We have several replicas, however, even more, the first respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132528	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bunjac, here and the HSS supports the referendums, but I'd like to make a joke about one of your statements, you say those who came to power, so when they come to power, they buy Mercedes, so people have been saving their whole lives, so when they come to power, they normally buy a Mercedes. As far as the referendum is concerned, when it comes to seizing taxpayers' money to hear or allow people's statements on a subject, it's expensive, but when taxpayers' money is used in a legal or illegal manner, then it's okay. There is no greater value, but when the people themselves say what and how they want the state to function, and the worst situation is the boasting of power that is today, which boastsly shakes off the people and does all things according to its own will, just believe me, no nation has allowed it forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132529	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132530	Thank you very much, Reverend Lenart. Indeed, this country is crying out for humble politicians, for humble politicians, for politicians who will serve their people, for politicians who will not be boastful, who will not ask others to bow down to them, who will not ask for other people to kiss their hands during election campaigns, so they are looking for people who will sacrifice themselves for the common good, who will always ask what they can give, and not what they can get. Unfortunately, examples in today's practice show that we have exactly the opposite kind of politician, and as long as we can't expect this society to experience any moral rebirth, more and more, we will look deeper and deeper into a moral fall. [[Intruder: Next Replic...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132531	...is a respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132532	Dear counterpart Bunjac, today I read an amazing article, writes this way that our Minister Žalac has signed a tender or says that she has signed a contract on which a job to get some buses gets a company from Split, imagine that and then, by chance, a luxury Mercedes was found in her yard worth 50,000,00 EUR, by a game of the very, as far as I see it, this company. And now I'm asking my colleague, I'm asking my colleague if this is corruption or what this is about. Believedly [[Intruder: The Answer of Respected...]] Thank you. [[Intruder:...representative of the Bunjac]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132533	Thank you very much. Yes, Agent Pernar, for a normal man, the problem is when a minister doesn't know, has a blockage, hears that he has a blocked account, and he and his wife are still buying a 60 000 kuna birthday watch, it's a very interesting phenomenon. So you're entitled to £3900 in a secure profit account but you can buy 60,000 a watch. This was not a problem for such persons to run as holders of the list by the president of the HDZ, so they were not taken for evil and here in this particular case that you mention, however, it seems that the main problem is who will be the bearer of the HDZ list for the European Parliament, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132534	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, pal Bunjac, you said a lot of things, I don't get to replicate everything, but there's one thing I'd like to touch. You've asked a lot of rhetorical questions why someone's bothered by the referendum, etc., etc. So I'm asking you why you're bothered by the control of who donates the referendum initiatives. What's the problem? So we've had a situation so far that there was no control. However, not only was there not control, but the referendum initiatives which could be and could even finance even foreign natural and legal persons from the political parties. So I really don't know what the control problem is, I don't know what the problem is that referendum initiatives like political parties, election promotion can't finance from foreign centres of power, maybe it bothers you, maybe it's just that someone on the outside can't influence Croatian political processes thanks to this law and what he could before.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132536	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132537	Thank you very much. So as I mentioned earlier, the referendum issue cannot be related to the financing of political parties because political parties receive hundreds of millions of kuna from the budget. So the political parties are budgetary users and the referendum initiatives are civil initiatives that are not financed from the budget. So this question of the referendum was to be separated into a special law and you put it in the same basket with political parties, which, with motives, means with motives that are not completely clear, means, in any case, they are hidden, and that is to try to limit this referendum initiative as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132538	Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132539	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I am pleased that you mentioned the direct impact of the financial power of individual actors in the election process on the election result. But there's that indirect, according to FINA, top 5 counties with the most employees in the budget and budget users, Lika-Senjska, you know who's in second place? City of Zagreb, Sibenik-Kninska, Sisak-moslavačka, Vukovar-Srijemska. They're all above 30%. The Slavonian Countys are mostly about 30% moving and most of the Croatian counties are moving. Only if we look at the areas where there is a larger share in the private sector, with entrepreneurs is Međimurska, Zagrebačka, varazdinska, Istria, Krapinsko-Zagorska. If we set simple correlations between individual election results and what happens in election campaigns, then we would see causal links not only to this direct financial impact that this law speaks of but also to this indirect one where people are assessed by the workplace and all that comes from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132540	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132541	Thank you very much. Representative Žagar, meaning what you mentioned, this already confirms relevant scientific studies, so in Croatia you can literally buy voter votes. They can buy meanings of different types of conveniences and can be purchased literally by intimidation, meaning about those interest groups that are connected to the authorities, they can affect both their employees, so on the people who depend on them, for example in different I don't know, agencies, associations, etc. and create one disciplined army to go to the polls and round up a certain candidate as instructed and 20% of the vote is enough to win the election. So in Croatia you have 3 million 700,000 voters, and HDZ won 600,000. So what did they win? They won with less than 20% of the electoral bodies and that's what's very bad and that's why the election law needs to be changed urgently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132542	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132543	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, I agree with you that this government is panicking about the referendum, so here is this one that is now being announced and the party we are changing will support Croatia, so 67 is too much. However, they have also determined that at least 10% of the electoral bodies must come to a referendum, which is the highest of all European countries. So we see that there is a panic fear of referendum, but something else would be asked with this finding. First, do you have a feeling that this government and HDZ have a fear of losing some place in this election because the latest research says there will be great surprises because some individuals and new parties have been involved in this campaign and they now want to increase from a million-and-a-half kuna to 4 million kuna and think that this way they will get another mandate or preserve what they intend to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132544	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132545	Thank you very much. Representative Lovrinovic, surely HDZ is the only party that can spend as much money as the limits under this law. Many other parties, especially those who are not parliamentary, will have a very difficult time spending 10% of the amount listed here. However, I am afraid that this opportunity will not help either, I remind you that in the previous Euro-parliamentary elections half the votes have brought them MPs who have nothing to do with HDZ, so Ruža Tomasic and Marijana Petir, and they remain on what they have. So I can run for Minister Zhaozak. Can I run who? Mariana Kustic and so on. But I doubt such people will achieve such a result as they were in 2014 with non-party people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132546	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this law is in the second reading, and I will try to highlight some of the things that I think are well governed by this law. But I also want to point out some things that I personally think might need to be further improved, arranged and a little clearer. So, unlike some, I disagree with the fact that additional control of sponsors and those financing referendum initiatives should not be in this law. I just think it's good and I think Croatian citizens have the right to know who is funding and how the referendum initiatives are financed because we have witnessed the same over the past years that through the referendum initiatives in Croatia we are also leading politics. So why don't people know who's behind it, who's funding it and who's behind it. We even have testimony that some initiatives are supported even from urban and municipal budgets where they are not charged with public land use, business premises and some advertising materials and I have nothing against it even if these things are free but citizens need to know about it and it has to be regulated by law. Political parties are financed from state and public budgets, but are also financed by donations as well as referendum initiatives. And everything must be every form of funding must be under control, must be public and must be transparent and let's say I welcome this law. When we talk about donations, I have submitted one amendment to this law. I hope you will respect it and consider it, and it is a statement of debt, i.e. the lack of debt to the Republic of Croatia's budget, according to the budgets of the units of local self-government and the salaries of workers, as regards natural and legal persons. So it's about the article I think, just a second to see, the seventh I think it is. No, I don't. In Article 18, I'm going to tell you exactly. Yes, in Article 18(6), which states that any natural and legal person who grants a donation to a political party must also sign a declaration that there is no debt to the state budget, to the budgets of the units of local self-government and to its workers. Why do I think that's not good? So, I don't mind keeping it a legal obligation. And why do I think that for physicals it should still drop? Because I suppose such a statement, although it is not prescribed here by law, should be certified in a public notary or must have any legal weight, or must be certified in the tax administration to prove that there is no debt. And now that we're talking about pensioners, students or some party members or people who support political parties and who make symbolic donations of 20, 30 kuna coming to such a confirmation often produce costs much greater than those donations themselves. So either a public notary clearance, or, say, in my case, if you go to the tax administration in my case, my city, we have a tax administration headquarters in a neighboring town in Crikvenica. So, some pensioner should sit on a bus, go to another town, pay a bus ticket of 10, 20 kuna, pay a return ticket to get to that certificate, and I think it's simply one burden that will lead to a significant reduction of donations of such a kind of minor or which I think is the most certain that people will simply give up at all to donate in such a symbolic way to the political party which I personally think is not good, that it should remove that administrative barrier. But I agree that someone who does not pay their salaries to their workers should not or should not donate political parties, which is why I support that provision to remain legal. On the other hand, I think it's okay for donations of more than 5,000 kunas to sign a contract even though I don't know how it's prescribed in law only for donations greater than 5,000 kuna. And now let's say that if someone donates 4000 kuna every month, they don't have to sign the contract. So let's say we should take a look at that. These debt statements, I think, would create further problems for the political parties themselves, which should be accountingly meant to process, or any donation that is not accompanied by such a statement, would have to be paid back within 8 days, which I think is quite difficult and creates administrative problems. So here I call upon you to support my amendment. I don't think that should be some kind of problem that would change the intensity of this law. Secondly, it is about payments received by political parties from units of local self-government. It is now prescribed that cities and municipalities must send those decisions to the State Election Commission, which I consider to be fine. But I also think it would be okay to send them to the political parties themselves because some of the environments in Croatia are such that cities and municipalities don't have the logistics they have, and then the parties don't have the information, but they have a lot of problems getting to the data at all, that the decisions themselves seem to get them. It's another thing. I don't think it would be too bad if the law prescribed the look of such decisions itself that they should look like. Let's say here in my town, the decision is good, so the decision is clear for every party that has, how many parties each party gets by mandates, each party schedules per women's quota supplement. However, there are cities and municipalities in Croatia where this is not so fragmented, but the total number and not even the number of parties received and these decisions are diverse although it would be understood that all these elements would be stated in the decision itself. I therefore think that the legislator should, however, prescribe the very appearance of that decision. The second thing, another thing I want to refer to, which is that this law, which you of the Ministry of Administration can do, should be brought into line with other laws governing these issues, and above all, I think that the main law governing the political parties' functioning of the Law on Political Parties in 1993. And why should we agree on that? You are now in this law for the first time prescribing a way of ending a certain political option when two parties come together, when they are shut down, and it is called a status change because you in this law prescribe that such mergers are carried out under the Law on accounting of non-profit organisations and there it is treated as status change. For example, in the Law on Political Parties of 1993, it is precisely prescribed that which political party ceases to exist and there is no possible merger at all, but you have 3 elements, therefore, either the decision to shut down the party itself or the passage of the legal deadlines when there are no bodies implementing the elections in that party or a prohibition by the Constitutional Court. So we don't have this form of merger at all, which is why all these laws should be evened out and brought into line. And another thing, let's say in art. 7. you mention here, you define a merger or merger, it says in the article. 7, and the article in which you are referring to the Law on Accounting of Non-profit Organisations speaks of status changes and now remains and what is unclear about what status changes are, and what is association or merger and remains in question this part of the merger of two parties or association or status changes, what is with this property later, whether the property is taken over and the assets are taken over and the debts of one of the parties or the assets are taken over, and the debts remain on the other, I think that this issue may, for example, not be settled by this law either, but neither by other laws, and therefore let's say that these things may need to be made more detailed and detailed, but I think that here your ministry may be the holder of the consent of all these other legal acts because here we see, therefore, we have an organic law for the work of political parties, this issue of the work of the political parties, which we now have some of the political parties, which we have done so much with this law, and the law, which we now we have to make it, and the rules, which we do it in fact, and we do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132548	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, and it's the first honorary representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132549	Thank you very much. Col. Djujic, this law provides for one newspaper related to the funds that MPs have been elected to HS and is now predicted to be allocated to the moment when the elections are announced, not by constituting HS, as it has been so far, which can be a correct solution since we have now had situations that some MPs elected on the list of one political party, decide to apply and apply as a member of another party or as an independent, and then it is simply a kind of voter fraud, such as the fraud when from a single list that is opposition, you go later to support the government. What do you think about that and why it's not done in a political system with MPs, not just with money?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132550	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132551	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, this is why you don't do it with the laws, it's still a bit of a broader subject, it doesn't cost me my opinion in one minute, but what you've just mentioned, this example, I think it's a good solution and I think it's fair that at the moment of declaring the official election results that this is such a state of party belonging and financing. We have now had the last two parliamentary elections, the situation where the procedure from the official declaration to the constitution of HS lasted two months, the situation could have happened to last a lot longer and at that time opened the space for various MPs, and also for buying and crossing sides, we have, for example, one, here are colleagues from the Most, they came out as a platform of independent lists, and they got 19 seats in the 2015 elections, and until the constitution of HS are, there were 14 of them in the Most, 6 of them gone, 3 of them, 2 of them, 1 there, so I think this is a good solution for the citizens to know who they're voting for. And then you finally get the funding from the state budget. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132552	The next replica of the respected representative, Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132553	Dear colleague, I know that you have one bitter taste left in your mouth from a referendum on marriage where the constitution defines marriage as a community of men and women and that since then you have actually been opposers of referendum initiatives, but why not you, too, the liberal left, actually organise some referendum tomorrow? I believe that your position on the referendum initiatives, all the referendum initiatives are not good and you will be able to organise a referendum tomorrow, or you will have reason and cause and do not root for a more restrictive referendum law because it will not suit you tomorrow with the fact that you have forgotten a very important thing, which is mentioned by your colleague Bunjac. Political parties are funded from the budget, and the referendums are done by volunteers with a very low budget, or without any budget, because a volunteer by definition is a man who works volunteering or free of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132554	The next replica of the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, and I'm sorry, the answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132555	Thank you very much. My colleague Zekanovic, I did not have the bitter taste of the last referendum on marriage, however, I am proud to come from the county where most citizens are against this solution and that then the same middle of the developed state was seen in the Republic, which the middle was not developed and which has advanced views and which it does not have, so that even a local patriotic pride caused this referendum without which it had not happened, we could only speculate about it, this is how we have official confirmation. Nor am I against the referendum, I, nor, it is one, one bad thesis that is being held here, so control and display the financials behind which initiatives and ideas in society, is not the shut-down of it, and I, if today left to organise a referendum, I would like all citizens to know who is funding the referendum and who is behind it, but also in political parties doing a lot of volunteers and a bunch of volunteers, and the same is free work, so your party until HDZ put you in the Assembly, they only worked volunteers, you didn't have the funds to finance yourself, so you best know how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132556	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132557	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djujic, you said that the referendum and policies are being implemented, and I agree with you, and it is good that this Law is regulated in how the implementation of the referendum is financed, but what is not good, that it did not go parallel with this Law and the Law on Referendum, because we often refer to Switzerland and other European countries where many political issues are easily resolved by reference. I don't know why this government is afraid of the will of citizens, and why this referendum law is finally not passed, and that it knows which questions we're going to decide on a referendum, and who is funding them, and also who is financing the pro-tourendum initiatives that this Law has failed to regulate, and that's not good, as it is not good that the government has already launched a pro-tourferendum action, the media hack on the Pension Reform Unions "67 is too much", we at HSS support that initiative, but it's not good that the government is already spending tax money on taxpayers, instead of investing in a pension fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132558	The answer of the respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132559	Comrade Vlaović, I agree with you. That is exactly what I called myself in my debate when I said that this Law should also be brought into line with all other laws concerning, therefore, the Law on political parties from '93, the Law on non-profit organisations, but also the Law on referendums. So this is now one framework that needs to be aligned with all the other laws that concern you. I'm sorry we don't have practice, but we're learning everything in democracy, we're a young state, maybe in the future it's normal that we get a package of laws like we have, I don't know, tax reform, so we get 15 laws right away in a package that concerns each other, because they have to be harmonised, so I hope that these topics that are very important, even though they may not look so attractive and important, are the practices that when one law goes on, then a package of all three, three or four, five laws that he's concerned with, but certainly I also support the story that it needs to be harmonised.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132560	Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132561	Thank you. Dear fellow Djujic, you said that everything about the election promotion and the funding of political parties in campaigns, that it should be noted to be transparent and that, I think we all agree, but in this Bill's proposal, it says that those who are blocked, under the covers and so on, that they cannot make their contribution, whether you agree with it personally, and whether it stands in that position and the SDP, does it mean, both your party and you support this provision, which means direct action on democracy. So that man, say, 300 thousand blocked, if tomorrow there's a referendum to change the executive law, so they can't give 20 kuna, 50 kuna from that poor girl in their pocket, even though their account is blocked, it's directly meant, breaking democracy, disabling people from that small contribution to fight for the truth or solving their problems. What are you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132562	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132563	My colleague Lovrinović, and I, and also the SDP, think that such citizens could make donations, and right here I have given the amendment, although not that part of the referendum, but the debate is still going on, here I call on you to give an amendment to the one that prescribes the funding of the referendum, but I hope that you will support my amendment in Article 18, which is just erasing citizens who have debts and over whom it has been initiated, that they must make statements that they do not have these debts in order to donate to the political party, let's say, that is on the trail of this, therefore, that idea and spirit. That everyone in Croatia can donate, that it should not be limited to it if it is blocked, however, by this, every man with what he has, even if little, has the right to do what he wants and in which direction he wants. So we agree on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132564	The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Goran Aleksic, gone, lost his right to speak, and the next one would be a debate of the respected representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about an extremely important law, which is important because of transparency and because of, I would say the entire democratic order in the Republic of Croatia, we have burned ourselves many times in the past, it is especially the case, and there are still various trials, and certain applications that have been related to officials who favored individual companies, individuals and who have in some way raised doubts about their campaigns whether what they are doing and report realistically compared to what they are... And then enough to remember the 2007 Ivo Sanader campaign, they say it was a record campaign for consumption, over 100 million kunas, dancing, singing, being paid not to sing some, everything there was, and, of course, it was automatically for citizens when it comes to the negative part of funding for political campaigns, immediately impose two things on the first plan: HDZ and Mayor Bandic, these are synonyms for non-transparency of funding in political campaigns. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said why HDZ, because Sanader became, I would say as president of the HDZ and then the government, the notion of that kind of non-transparentity, when it was explained to the president of the Club of Representatives, Mr. Bacic, as he visually described the meeting and the Prime Minister of the former Kosor's half was given above the table, and half below the table. So when she handed over President HDZ's duties, that's supposed to explain, that's how she and later her colleague Bacic, who was carrying money bags around by lawyers, and that's those syntagms that other people were etched in memories. The judicial follow-up continues until today and it's almost amazing here now that you've told me. Yesterday I watched in the Croatian Radio Television Log Mrs. and Mr. Pevec were sentenced in a few years because of the 4 million kuna funds they gave, pulled out or I don't know how, untransparently spent from their company, and former HDZ President Sanader, former HDZ Minister Nadan Vidosevic processes last, last and last. The mayor of Zagreb, Bandic, lasts and lasts, and there is no evidence of the judiciary there and we have no system that will punish such phenomena. On the other hand, of course, the mayor of Bandic's presidential campaign in 2000, and it seems to me that she left tails behind in 10 years. The gentleman reported a figure in the campaign, and later collected 10 million kunas after the campaign itself, which was eventually objected to and accounted for by the tax that the mayor of Bandic is supposed to pay in the state budget. I am telling you all this because we see how important this law is and I am telling you all of this to warn you that no matter how much this law has been passed on to me there are those who have been bending and are likely to bend the laws of the Republic of Croatia. What is not good is that this is an emergency law passed de facto overnight because it corresponds to the HDZ, because the HDZ wants the law to be passed so that these European elections can be financed and implemented according to the system. So it's not important on this side to pass a law that protects shipbuilding, which will save oil workers, which will allow them to get some kind of pay. It is not possible to pass a law that will prevent hundreds and thousands of our people from leaving the Republic of Croatia on a daily basis. Over the past year and a half over 100,000. But it is possible to pass a law that will allow HDZ not to spend a million and a half, but rather to campaign for European elections. These are HDZ priorities and the ruling coalition. What I agree with is the law, and I said it a little while ago that there was no swindling after the election that some MPs became suddenly independent, applying to other parties, and that way we have parties that have millions of kunas that they won, and have no participation in the elections at all. It is good to define this in a way that, after the elections themselves, determines what is the ratio of power or what policy options, the party's policy has the right or an independent representative has the right to certain means. It may also be possible to consider whether there are more voters on one list, such as MPs chosen by preferential votes, perhaps presenting more voters than others who are not selected with preferential votes. But we leave it for future changes and for future reflections. What I also want to say here is that it is amazing that the government's interest is primarily to save the money of potential dissatisfactions in HDZ or in another party, but it is not in their interest to prevent crossings and chips that are then transferred from opposition to position for 2 or 4 years. And here's a clear question. Why is this not in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia not give the initiative by which we will say and openly support the amendment of the Constitution in such a way that voters who have given a vote for a political option cannot be deceived and then through various services of any kind is it a flower, is it the grip of their hands, is it something else irrelevant, but it is a fraud of voters and fraud of those who cast their vote? And then we wouldn't have the situation as we do now. We wouldn't have the government of Andrej Plenkovic. We wouldn't have a government that's made up of defectors and that the defectors keep alive. The question arises as to why this is not in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is in her interest to protect 250 or more thousand kunas per year as compensation for one representative in the event that one of the representatives in that month until the constitution is established or becomes independent, etc.? So we need to be aware here that this situation as far as the elections are concerned is always about not only money but also with votes or voter support, that it hurts people a lot more than if someone is going to apply to another party. They don't care if their trust is played out or whether their voices will go to the wind as they went with the HNS or with some representatives at Mayor Milan Bandic's club who cheated, they openly showed their "fresh figure" to their neighbours and voters who voted for them yesterday and told them not to imitate the HDZ. But these decided to do exactly the opposite. I say again irrelevantly whether the bouquet of flowers, the grip of hands, and if other things are proven, there may also be a crime, given that there are many coincidences about employment in Zagreb's companies and the transition of representatives to the Bandic mayor's club. So probably the future doctorate of the University of Zagreb, to whom it showed its leadership, if the doctorate had shown what he felt about himself, that a man who had the most serious doubts about corruption, got awards and ultimately, I would have said that he was destroying the reputation of the Zagreb University, but given how much that university has lost in recent years at the rating, the question of whether it could be even more broken down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132566	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132567	Comrade Maras, you have just mentioned the situation of financial corruption in 2007 and these campaigns and trials that take place today both against HDZ as parties and against prominent individuals of that party and the slowness of the judiciary and that is the problem and the problems are not only this slowness of the judiciary and that we do not have these indictments but that no one has ever talked about and therefore, enormous funds have been shot in the campaign and if we know that it is in the 2007 elections. The HDZ basically barely won, barely won, so if there wasn't so much money in the campaign, the question is whether they would have received as many votes as they had received at the time. So they achieved such money another mandate that they had no right to do, and then in that mandate, they did other huge additional damages. Now, these are the issues that are the weak consequences of all these things, which is why everything needs to be transparent and public.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132568	Dear Representative Gordan Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132569	Well, it's clear to everyone what's been going on and how it worked, the only thing that makes it unclear is why HDZ hasn't returned 30 million kuna to the state budget that was found in the court to be sucked out of public money in the Fimi affair. Why hasn't money been returned yet, but also legal jokes are trying to stall that process, break judgments, say no, no, no, Sanader wasn't HDZ, he was a player, no one knew anything. And we know the testimony of witnesses and also the mayor of HDZ like Mr. Kirin from Virovitica, who boasted himself at the presidency that he had solved it first, so he says in a statement, I first decided to get some money out of the MUP through the Fimi Media. So the only question that's being asked, why hasn't HDZ returned that money yet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132570	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132571	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Maras, you started each of your discussions with a small majority and a large minority up until a month, two months ago. That fat minority got so fat that every week you lose at least one MP and now whose problem is that, is that the SDP problem and the SDP leadership that people run away from the SDP or someone else's fifth, hundredths or thousands? You have also talked about the elections, I hope warmly, given that you are against sharing funds under the mandate, that the SDP, after European elections, will give up these funds in favour of the state budget. If you are against, say no, we will not take a single lip under that mandate and also, it is clear that you are all in the SDP under the influence of the election in Lika County where you have achieved a truly great historical result.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132572	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132573	Well, you didn't listen very well, I'm not against being divided by mandate, I'm against that post-election mandate being bought. That's a little bit different. So I said it's good to define strictly the results of the election of funding but it's not good that after that we don't talk about limiting running and crossing, you don't care, it suits you. Whose problem is that? It's irrelevant if it's a problem of SDP, HDZ, HNS. The problem is citizens, so we're not here, Mr. Uncle, for our own sake, maybe that's how you guys figure it out in some world of yours, I'm in HDZ, we're playing here, I'm taking up my hand, I'm getting a paycheck, I'm hiring someone in Varazdin, and it's my game, I'm playing that game. That's not how I understood it. I realized that we're doing it for the citizens, and it makes me uncomfortable. You're glad for your sake and I'm embarrassed for the voter's sake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132574	The next replica is the respected representative Mark Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132575	Thank you. In your presentation, you referred to the future Dr Milan Bandic, and I would just like to remind you that Milan Bandic has nothing to do with this law, it may eventually have something to do with discussing art laws, music or something like that because it is obvious that the Music Academy sees a certain value in it that this society is able to relieve tensions at the level of maturity to be or mature ideas that it has decided to share and honor a doctorate. The political situation in which we are located, and the social and scientific situation, unfortunately in Croatia is such that we live in an age that is... He called it an intellectual betrayal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We live in a society where ideas have been issued, where political hatred has been organised to say that in his words and what laws we have passed until we face these facts, we will have inflation of future doctors and that comes at the proposal of the Music Academy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132576	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132577	I agree with you, so first of all, Milan Bandic has a lot to do with this law, so in his presidential campaign and by this law and by the past, he made a failure under which the IRS charged him with paying the income tax because he charged more than 20 million kuna of donations he should not have charged. And that in every normal country would be automatic to disqualify you for anything and we look at it every day and that's why you're right, yes, so, as long as Milan Bandic is politically successful in the Republic, the Republic won't be, in full sense, the real democratic country that I want to live in, as long as such people are successful, it's not good for the Republic. And as for the PhD in music sciences, who knows, maybe he sang well in interrogation, so maybe that's why the man got this proposal from the Music Academy. Maybe she's singing nice. [[Intruder: Next...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132578	...an individual debate is a respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132579	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'll only talk about two articles of this bill, Art. Article 19 29. These articles regulate donations. Art. 19th limit of donations for the financing of regular annual political activities, 29. limitation of the amount of donation to finance the cost of election promotion. I think these two articles are written so that they directly encourage corruption politically. I would say that donations to political parties are a crime and that should end. Let's ask ourselves logically, so why would a man give his 30.000,00 kn to a political party if he didn't expect anything from her? Well, I guess there's a smarter way to spend 30.000,00 kn, so I guess she's got kids, she's got grandchildren, so she doesn't spend 30.000,00 kn on them, but she just loves one political party so badly that she gets 30.000,00 kn. Which is why a legal person would give 200,000,00 kn to a political party if he doesn't expect the opposite service and the model is very clear there, I will fund you with a donation, and you will provide me with a job where I won't make 200,000,00 kn, but 600,000,00 kn, 800,000,00 kn, and then my account as a donor is clean. What was the model at the time when the Prime Minister was Sanader? He brought together the directors of public companies and told them no, you don't have to donate HDZ at all, which you would donate to HDZ, you will order services from the Fimi Media, whether you need those services or not, and you will report there and spend as much as possible, if you don't do so, and I am prime minister, and then you will no longer be the director of that public company, I will replace you tomorrow. Pure political corruption can't be cleaner than that. That, of course, was involved and the entire HDZ, is not just Sanader because HDZ is a party, the currently ruling party, which has a confirmed criminal charge, so I don't know if there are such examples in the world. The Croats are such a gifted people to choose a political party with a confirmed criminal charge, that's the case from 2011, so does our judiciary, it'll probably go out of date, most likely because what our judiciary is, I have nothing else to hope for. Art. 19th and 29th are in direct opposite. Art. 19th says the total value of the donation of a legal person in one year can amount to £200,000 per political party and that is fine, but art. 29, which speaks of election promotion, says to a particular political party, so the secretary of state is one and the same, it does not have the same meaning, these are two important different meanings, so now it can be donated to a single candidate in local elections, and how many municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, 428, and now that each municipality is financed by a single candidate, only one with 30.000,00 kn, that amounts to 12 million 840 thousand kuna, which is pardon but respectable amount. You wrote here regardless of how many units of self-government the political party or the voters' list participates in the election, so it can give 30.000,00 kn to the candidate regardless of whether that list of electoral units is running. If you were to say that you could spend a maximum of 30.000,00 kn on one candidate, then you should have written it in one and only one unit of local self-government, but you didn't write it. You used an expression that is at least ambiguous and can be interpreted as I interpret it, so if we fund it and only two candidates, then it's 25 million 680 thousand kuna over these candidates to that political party, and don't try to explain to me that it's not the legalization of crime these two articles. It's a call. All those who so donate political parties and candidates are covered by this law of yours and these articles of yours. They're covered in their criminal activity. I think, look, a multi-party democratic system is a value, one of the constitutional values it costs. Constitutional value costs. I think political parties should be financed from the state budget and from the membership of their members. So let's increase funding from the state budget because forgive me, democracy costs, but at least it's transparent because it goes through Parliament, because it knows exactly how many parties that get the money by the number of MPs and can spend it. Limit how much he can spend on pre-election purposes for which elections, I don't mind. But this system of donations, and especially this creamy when it's described, this wide-ranging he is, he may be and he'll be I assure you he'll be the source of crime and we'll have some Fimi media again and we'll have confirmed indictments, but which in court will be 6, 7, 8 years or until they fall into obsolescence. The second thing is the referendum initiatives. Of course, no referendum initiatives can be financed from the budget. There is a need to enable donations and it must be controlled. But those two things need to be separated because they're not the same. They're not the same. The financing of political parties by an individual of a legal person and related other groups in that legal person goes on indefinitely. Well, that's billions. And do you know which of these are the most exploited? A party that's in power, because it's able to return that favor, counter-service. She's able to say you're going to get a bone of all the channels in Croatian waters and you're going to do it for four years and you're going to make millions of dollars on it, because we're going to choose you in a contest because we're going to make such a competition that only you can be selected. So now give us 200 thousand kuna and make sure. I don't know, it seems to me that the only intention these two articles of yours were to allow for fully non-transparent criminal financing of HDZ. And that HDZ is prone to it is shown by a powerful, confirmed indictment against the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132580	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132581	Thank you very much. Mr. Track, as far as I understand from your debate, you object at all to the donations of private entrepreneurs and individuals. Do you think that it should go completely to public funding or that these donations should be limited if you do not consider that private individuals cannot give these donations to be symbolic and to be to minor amounts? Since you're talking here about 200 thousand kunas would your proposal be to be 10, 20 thousand kunas or, in your opinion, my opinion is that the higher the source of the public it's a more transparent system? So I would be the happiest if the state would arrange a funding system so that the sources were public, publicly available to know everything and that people could then see it clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132582	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132583	I don't know what a fellow Maras means to you a minor? 30 thousand kuna for me is not a minimum amount. If that's 10, 20 kuna, that's a minimum amount, and that's none of my business. But I'm talking about this entrance to corruption. You're asking me if I think I should completely move on to the transparent financing of political parties from the budget and membership fees? Yeah, that's what I mean. I mean it because that value of the Croatian Constitution must be paid. She costs. And let's not let it be paid with black, dirty money and let's not let that value get dirty as it is already soiled in the Fimi Media affair. Let us not allow such affairs to be repeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132584	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132585	My colleagues and colleagues, he says, legalizing crime. So who's the media mag in legalizing crime if it's not the former Union of Communists and their followers of the SDP? Let us remember the 45th abduction of land, tampering with ceilings, and when all of them were swept away by the fall of the former Yugoslavia, all of the former republics passed a law on the origin of property in the 1990s, so as not to know how any of the followers of communism came to their property. Privatization, war profiting among many. The abolition of the Commission of the victims of war and poverty is precisely to ensure that the truth about World War II is never found out who was in charge. So he says: "Employers Josipovic, Kosor, Mesic, Milanovic cannot go to jail because in secret in 2015, Article 137 of the Penal Code was dropped against the Republic of Croatia so that they could not be prosecuted, and everything is legalised, including crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132586	Thank you. The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132587	60% of those communists you're talking about have gone to HDZ, the party that ran you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132588	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132589	Dear Vice President, esteemed fellow Secretary of State. So, we're talking about the financing of political parties, about the financing of the referendum, I have to admit that I found it very interesting, there's no fellow Sokola anymore, my colleague Strick is here, and then on the other hand, my colleague Stazic, and that HDZ and SDP are having a nice fight, and tomorrow after these elections, is this already some pre-election campaign for the European Parliament, going back to the European Parliament. So, the Croatian public must know that SDP and HDZ are coalition partners, and together right now, today, now, together, they rule the European Union, the Socialists and the People. So this is very, very important information, so I find this whole transformation very interesting. Very interesting, and just keep going. It seems funny how they transfer each other who got more money from the firm at the time he was in power. Well, each other, as much as you could, it's known. You, too, are colleagues of Stazic, as well as colleagues of Sokol and Strickak, and their team has been paying constant financing of HDZ, and as SDP is financed in the Primorje-Gorski County. A fellow Djujic left the Assembly, so he said he was proud to come from an advanced county that was against the referendum on marriage, and I find it interesting that in my Sibenik-Knin County, the village of Civljana, the most underdeveloped now with several dozen Serbs, the village of Biskupija, also voted against the referendum on marriage. The most developed, the most resilient, people illiterate, but Mr. Pupovac came, a coalition partner and scared them, he said: "To vote against this, marriage is not a community of men and women, it's something else, because it will come...", I don't know now who, perhaps, got up, maybe someone, so there will be problems. So they were terrified, so the poor citizens of the citizens voted that marriage was not a union of men and women, hey, if they knew what they had circled, it would be interesting. And maybe they're really advanced, maybe Mr. Pupovac came to them, so he gave instructions and explained to them how it was actually the future for men to marry each other, and women, that would be fantastic. But here when we talk about funding, I get really... I'm going to even agree with Mr. Stazic, and finally this pattern of behavior should be put in place, and it's really a little weird that any natural person anywhere, comes in and donates 30 thousand kuna to SDP, HDZ, irrelevant, even HRAST, what's his motive, what's his motive? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's not talk about companies. Although things, I would say they are even, they are visible, so you all know, absolutely all, for dozens of examples where companies that work with local self-government, with regional self-government, with the state, pay bills to various media, portals, televisions, media houses, to get media space, to get posters, to get flyers, everywhere. And you know it. And it's for prison. It's for prison. And you all know it, you all know it. I'm not going to accuse you of everyone who's here, but someone or a lot of people are doing it. And those who sit here in the Assembly, or who should sit. But here now, also a very interesting thing, it says is banned from, with this Law and the financing of foreign parties and referendum initiatives. When the European Union has placed hundreds, hundreds of millions of kuna and EUR in Croatia for years, and assured us that we will experience prosperity in the European Union, that we will all drive Mercedes, BMWs, we will park them in our backyard,... way, we're gonna have super phones, we're not gonna do much work, we're gonna live nice, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not gonna happen. But that wasn't the problem, today when we entered the European Union, the forbidden financing of the outside. I don't have a problem with that, but then we get into the history of the disease, at the time the HDZ created a state, and it certainly came well from Croatian emigration donations, and today when Croatian emigration realized that HDZ was a left-wing party and that it was coalitiond with the SDP, and in Europe, and tomorrow and in the Croatian Parliament, it was Croatian emigration that was leaving Croatia from '45 to '71 and later, it's, they say we don't need it anymore because they don't finance us anymore, so we'll make it impossible for Croatian emigrants who fled because of communism today to finance any party in Croatia. To be clear, my party has never received donations from abroad either, but HDZ is, but no longer receiving it, and it, in preventatively, closes itself, that some opponents entering from the right part of the political spectrum could not be financed. I'm sorry that no one, there's no one here at MOST, here's quite interesting, those who always call for being in the Assembly, but there's been 20 of them, and now there's 10 of them, but here's interesting that there's no one in the Assembly, I'm sorry about this key topic, because they've been very recently, no matter what they weren't at the beginning of the referendum, and they've certainly defended the referendum initiatives, I don't know why, they probably felt it was pragmatic at one point. Now, let's talk about the referendums. The referendums, all who have been organised and all who have collected a sufficient number of signatures, which refers to these two last referendums, are done voluntarily. They're done volunteering. They were made with small small donations, and they cannot be viewed at all, nor can they be controlled through the same Law as the political parties are financed. Not at all. And this is inadmissible, to put in the same basket referendum initiatives with political parties. Here, HDZ will boast that there are around €13.14 million in savings now, the extra money in the account, the referendum initiatives have £0.00 because they start with zero and I'll tell you that both of the other referendum initiatives that have now been collected have been signed by hundreds of donations of 20, 30 kuna, from those grandmothers that may have been blocked, have given 20, 30 kunas to make that flyer, to print that book signed to make the RH better. But I would still get to that key thing here, a lot of colleagues have warned about it and that's really a reason, and that's that European elections today can be financed no more with one and a half million, as far as it's been, but with 4 million kunas. Great, so, HDZ actually hurried with this bill, let's bring it in quick, we just have 13 million kunas, why would we just have a million and a half kuna, so let's spend as much money as we can, so I'll give the amendment let's make 10 million kunas since you have 13 million kunas in your account, I think that would be even better for you, so let's make that campaign as God commands, let the little media earn it, too, it's too bad that that money stands in your account, let's make that money spend, let's get the media a little profit and media houses. But I would still like the main thought of this exhibition to be that HDZ and SDP are coalition partners in the European Parliament. So, the Croatian public, I'm going to repeat HDZ and SDP are coalition partners in the European Parliament, and now they're going to make one fair campaign, so that's how they're going to cheat the public and tell us we're fighting each other, and they're actually fighting for the same thing because tomorrow when they come from Bernardic to the European Parliament and Plenkovic's team, they're going to vote together against those for whom my party is, and these are conservatives... So we're against you, and you're together. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132590	He has several replicas, the first respected representative of Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132591	A referendum on marriage, a direct direct democracy, it can be played just as it played out in that referendum through one extremely suggestive question whether marriage is a community of men and women. So who's not up for it? Well, of course marriage is a community of men and women. If the question was whether you were against homosexuals being able to make a marriage, the result of the referendum would be different. Therefore, a referendum can be misused, as in this case has been misused because ignorant people have come in there, so look what I have against that marriage being a community of men and women, so I won't, I'm not against it. You said this, I think you said the community of the citizens, right? The citizens, is, if they voted against the referendum issue there [[Aggression: Citizens, Citizens]] Why don't we... [[Employed: Dear Representative Zekanovic...]] Great job. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132592	...response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132593	I didn't hear this end, I'm sorry. So, ignorant people, see how interesting it is like nothing fits, then you say someone's ignorant and doesn't know, and when you're, for example. Someone asks when life begins, or when they claim that scientific approach is to begin with, if you say, no scientific approach is important, it's important that we agree. So, right in those most backward environments, in my county, they voted against marriage being a community of men and women, and you're against it, you're against it. And I'll tell you what I saw on the stands when people asked me and what it was about, so that's it, so if I could explain to them that we were against gays getting married, then they would circle or sign up, so people were more motivated when they knew gays couldn't have the same rights as heterosexuals on that point, so you're in one big, big delusion, and the Croatian people are very wise and they know what's right, which is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132594	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132595	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Zekanovic's, so that he doesn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132596	I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132597	A colleague of Zekanovic, so if there were no HDZ, you would have watched this assembly on television alone, you would never have seen it in a touristic way, but I will remind you of your party's influence. In Varazdin of the 16 local committees, the Oak, and above you is the president of the state level, does not run any local committees. You don't have any in the City Council of 25 councilmen. In the County Assembly of the Varazdin County of 41 councilmen, none, and you ran at all these levels. So your influence is flat zero and now you're interpreting to the Croatian public that you're saying that the electoral threshold for joining HS from 13,000 votes rise to 20. Namely, HS now has 121 MPs, if you would accept this initiative and bring it down to 100, it's 20,000 votes, and you can't win. election on your doorstep. [[Intruder: The Answer of Respected...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132598	...representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132599	Now, my colleague Strick, first of all, I wouldn't have been in HS if I hadn't been on the HDZ list, it's possible, but you know what's even more accurate, that you would never have smelled this square here if you weren't in HDZ, so if you weren't in HDZ, you wouldn't have existed on a political map because such people, such qualities, such qualifications can only come to HDZ in this HS, only in HDZ, that some normal party you would never get the opportunity to be in HS. As for little mathematics, my party gained popularity 2%, one in HS, one only, you have the popularity of 25%, has you about 60, so I'm worth 2%, you're worth 0.3%, my dear colleague Strick, so math doesn't suit you, and we'll see a fellow Uncle 4000 of our votes in Varazdin County whether you're going to miss him, say goodbye to HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132600	A colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What article was injured by the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132601	Mr. Vice President, in this I don't know what he would call a delirium that prevailed in the Croatian Parliament, especially by Mr. Zekanovic, the injured Rules of Procedure 238 is incurring the right to the freedom of choice of our fellow citizens. And I'm asking you to warn him when he's talking about it and to stop him when he's talking about it, because it's a shame. So this man can't be listened to anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132602	No injured Rules of Procedure, you know as well as I do. So I estimate it isn't. Comrade Zekanovic, let's not deal with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure now. I said he wasn't hurt by the Rules of Procedure. So, I don't see what... You'll get a warning if you abuse... [[Intruder:... Speaker is not involved, does not understand...]] Everyone will get a warning from now on who begins to abuse. [[You don't understand.]] I see it's started with that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132603	Give me a warning right now. It's not an abuse, because then you had to give your colleagues Maras a warning because he abused a Rules of Procedure that didn't mean So, no, no. [[I told him he was wrong.]] But you didn't give a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132604	I warned you in advance, and from now on, I'll give it to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132605	I'm here to say that my colleague Maras needs to be warned, and that's why I picked up this tile, because it means Article 238, he's going to know what Reiner's article is. If he doesn't know, Mr. Bukarica knows. So some people are gay, some are heterosexual, I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132606	Okay. You said yours. I'm giving you a warning about the abuse of the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[I don't know, maybe you do?]] Let's move on. The next is honourary representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132607	Thank you very much. My colleague Zekanovic, you are, I will not talk about this advanced environment, developed. When I said I didn't mean economic progress, I meant mental progression and let's say that that's how it is. But you mentioned a lot of things, and I'm afraid I don't have time. But you mentioned here the Facebook campaign and said that HDZ and SDP are in the coalition, which is not true. You came to this House through the HDZ list and I disagree as a colleague who says your influence is zero. Your influence is not zero, and you said that your colleague Pupovac spoke in a referendum on how to vote. You have various political influences. Let's say when INA was given into Hungarian hands and the HDZ was working to betray Croatian national interests then they told you let's do that Facebook campaign, attack us, don't act, but hold on to the quorum. So basically there's still the Zekanovic coalition, Hasanbegovic, HDZ only now because of your Facebook campaign for the Euro Parliament as you attack the HDZ, and in fact whenever it's dense Hold their quorum and hold their loytres. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132608	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132609	So, you don't really understand anything, and Mr. Bauk will explain it later. So, you're attacking me this way actually using HDZ. If HDZ is an opponent, then you shouldn't attack me like this. So you should actually want me to be as strong as possible because the HDZ will be as weak as possible. And you've actually exposed yourself because your HDZ is a potential coalition partner in the European Union, or you agree where you are, or you don't understand what's probably the most likely. However, here is my colleague, Bauk, who will explain it to you. So, but actually here is as funny as... The ridiculous lie first placed by the Bridge and you know for yourself that a thousand times there was no quorum in Parliament, and then Mr. Jandrokovic or Mr. Reiner would ask for a quorum to be gathered and in 20 seconds it would be re-voted. [[You don't understand.]] But unfortunately for you or for your joy, I will never run after you, and for Mr. Stazic and Mr. Maras. And when you say it's gonna be a full assembly, I'll have my own, and I'll be against it or whatever I want.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132610	A colleague, Djujic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132611	This Regulation shall enter into My colleague Zekanovic disrespects me when he says I don't understand anything it's two, three times repeated. That's not true. I just understand that he holds the quorum when they need it and on key topics in this country, which is the issue of national interests and the handover of the INA into Hungarian hands that one right-handed right-wing local patriot should not be unique. But he is basically a HDZ sleeper here along with counterpart Hasanbegovic and the guide holds the lottery to the ruling majority whenever it is necessary and everything is clear to me. I understand that and I beg you not to disrespect me like this anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132612	You have re-exploited the Rules of Procedure and the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I give you a reminder. A colleague, Zekanovic, think carefully whether you want to or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132613	... [[Zekanovic: There are more replicas, right? Yeah, but I'm staying with my colleague that he doesn't understand anything, and he's also lying.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132614	Okay. Now you've received a second warning and I'm taking your word for it by the end of the day. Well, you'd like to talk like in a replica, but you can't because it's over. ... Your colleague can't answer that. [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]] The point of the replica is that you're asking something, and someone's answering something. ... Okay. [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]] Come on, say the line. Come on, say the replica you wanted to say. ... Comrade Zekanovic, you can't keep saying that I told you that. ... [[Intruder Zekanovic:... Speaker not included, not understood.]] You won't answer him because you lost your word. ... [[Intruder Zekanovic:... Speaker not included, not understood.]] My colleague Zekanovic, I, my colleague Zekanovic, have already received a warning today that you cannot speak until the end of the day. [[Intruder Zekanovic:... Speaker not included, not understood.]] Don't let me forbid you to talk tomorrow. ... Here you go, colleague Maras. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132616	Wait. Excuse me. You have no right anymore. Excuse me, you had your... [[/Intruder Maras: What?]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132617	No, I don't. This is the third.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132618	No, no. You've already fired your three.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132619	No, no. This is the third. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132620	No, no, no. You've cracked your three replicas. He's got a colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132621	Mr. Vice President, I've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I think there's been a misapplication of the article...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132622	And it's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not this one...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132623	Yeah, well, I got up, you looked at me a little bit, but I realized that you weren't very happy, happy with that, but, well, I think there was, in my understanding, a misapplication of Article 240, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, concerning the confiscation of the word by the end of the day of counterpart Zekanovic. So, you gave him one correct reminder under Article 239, and you gave him a second warning correctly, but under Article 240, paragraph 1, it refers to the confiscation of words as it speaks, only the third warning is applied, the representative who continues to act... the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the President may withdraw the notice by taking away the words until the end of the debate on the subject, therefore, not until the end of the day, so I would like to ask one explanation whether there has been a misapplication of this provision, because he has only two, only a yellow card, has not yet been red in my understanding of the Rules of Procedure, so here I would like it to be clarified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132624	You little, you little, let me still interpret the Rules of Procedure, so, uh, it's like I said, right? Uh, colleague Maras, what did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132625	Article 235 has been injured. So I'm entitled to three replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132626	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132627	Since you, a gesture and a mime, told me that I was entitled to a replica, I guess when you called me, someone would have already suggested that I didn't have a third line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132628	No, he just, he just suggested to me, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132629	So that was when you were already giving me your word, not at the very beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132630	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132631	So, Mr. Vice President, there was a confusion, and I was entitled to Mr. Zekanovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132632	I told you, I made it clear you don't have the right to a replica, so I'm staying with my attitude, right? This one, because you three replicas had and fired three replicas. No, three. Count yourself, if you need to put on cartoons. Well, that's what people care about, isn't it? Now they will speak individually to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132633	Here, dear Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. So, as I have been denied the satisfaction of replicating my colleague Zekanovic, especially with regard to his statement that the HDZ party is the left hand side, and I am this one, it's probably one of the colleagues from HDZ who wanted to replicate it and deny it, so as they didn't do it, here I would ask that they do it in the replica of me, I won't answer, answer the answer. If they are left-wing parties, the next step is to receive into the European Socialist Party, although I think they would belong more to the even left-wing option in that sense, yes, but good. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as regards the referendum initiatives and the referendum, counterpart Zekanovic had a false interpretation of why citizens in the citizens voted against. Because it was a referendum against minorities, not for marriage, and this, and of course someone who is a member of the minority is thinking, because he may be next, therefore, from the first was a referendum against the alleged signs or without the alleged signs of homosexuals, not to use another word, and the next one was against Serbs, or against the use of Cyrillic, they correctly evaluated and anticipated the following events, so that I would not, either be investigating this one, and looking for conclusions that do not stand there. Therefore, as regards this Law, it would be good to clarify the dilemmas of Articles 19 and 29. So if Article 19, and in the greatest theory enables the donation of several million kunas from one natural person to political parties, then that provision, that hole should certainly be shut down in a way that explains it a little bit better. And under two, this, I imagine a situation that a natural person donates to two different units of local self-government for two completely opposing parties, because if he cooperates well with a government that is, for example, from the Living Wall in one municipality and from the Most in another municipality, then he will give in this, here for the Living Wall, here for MOST, for example, or for some other, other parties, but should that hole in the Law if it is open, that it should be closed. This is also true for the amounts of donations in Article 29, as Col. Stazic mentioned. As for the limitation of the amount of campaign for the European Parliament, what is now proposed is fine. So, I would be very, very unworthy if I, I would not, would not recall that the same proposal was in the Proposal for a Law that our Government proposed in 2015, however, it was on my initiative, because I felt that the whole state in elections for the European Parliament could not be equalised with one electoral unit in ordinary parliamentary elections. However, it might be good if then elections for the President of the Republic were put a little below 8 million, because yet they are not twice as much in the alleged signs of elections for the European Parliament, but what can be very, very justified is that this provision should take effect after these elections for the European Parliament, because it is not exactly in the spirit of democratic practice, democratic principles and principles of the Venice Commission to write the law with the intention to apply from next week, so that these elections can already be financed by new, significantly different rules than they are worth. Therefore, the serious political parties had to make a financial plan for 2019 at the end of 2018, and it was realistic to expect them to do so according to the applicable provisions of the Law, and it is likely, in that sense, a very large difference for each political party, to significantly change the amount they can spend in the elections that are clear to be held in 2019, in May, therefore, these are elections for the European Parliament, so that, after that, the day before the entry into force or two days before the decision to call those elections, would be a significant, substantial change in financing conditions. In this respect, this represents a rather large sliding start with two legs in the transparency and regularity of elections for the European Parliament, if it would insist that this provision enters into force and applies immediately from the first day of the elections that have just been called and I think that the Constitutional Court would be able to publish, as in 2011, respectively. where the Law on the System of State Administration and on the number and part-round of the Ministry and other central bodies entered into force on the first day following its publication in the National Journal, although each time the Government changed and formed a government, however well, it is irrelevant and that the provision should therefore be made available to the European Parliament on the amount of appropriations to be entered into force by way of a postponement, so that it does not enter into force immediately and applies the next day to the elections to be called the following day. It's something I expect the Constitutional Court to do without obtaining an assessment of the constitutionality of that provision. Another problematic article of this law is the one talking about campaign financing for the referendum. Therefore, there should be those in the same position who advocate that the question, that the answer to the referendum question should be ZA and that the answer should be against. If, therefore, they are, they are, the referendum are two opposing sides and both sides must have the legitimate right to finance their campaign. And how can you get to that? So to ask a negative question, so the answer FOR is the opposite of that, so it's better to give one and the other rights, you have those who are ZA, those who are against it, the Committee one, the Committee of the other, I'm not talking about collecting signatures, the collection of signatures is technically not political, but activist activity, you're not collecting signatures to change something, you're talking about something, so the people decide whether it's going to change or not. That's why I would put that provision there, and I would allow each other to be, if they were given donations, to represent their views and interests, and I expect that when there's a referendum law to be said about it. As for the other provisions that were controversial, some, therefore, I think that they are on the trail of what, on the trail of my thinking, so, and the minimum of funding from local self-government, that there are no local sheriffs who think that when they get power, they don't need any more parties, no council, nothing, but I own it, and what you have here is spending money on the budget for political activity. Also, as regards improving the reduction of the amount in infringements, I think that there has been a good step and that there are a lot of things in this law that fix the current situation, facilitate the functioning of both political parties and independent councilors and MPs, but these three things that I mentioned leave me a certain reserve which, unfortunately, leads me to a dilemma that I should not support such a bill, so I hope that by the time I vote, the applicants will fix these three provisions. So, as regards the entry into force of the provisions on increasing the cost of funding for the European Parliament, the provisions on the law and equality of all groups in the referendum initiatives and preventing the caricature of the limit on the amount of donation to actually equalise 30,000 with 20 and some million, we heard, I mean theoretically and much more by a single natural person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132634	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132635	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the nominal goal of amending the Law on Referendum is and the elections are a transparent process for both. However, the fact is that these changes will make it difficult for the signing process, if not impossible and one reason is that HDZ simply does not have the support of most citizens for its policy. The HDZ has the support of an interest group and for this reason it is always 70% against this government, but HDZ through this interested group that goes to elections, gets a certain percentage of votes, and then a variety of different, so to speak, plots, comes to power, so that the idea of HDZ as if they want as a more honest system, and it is clear which methods are served is unserious. So it's clear from the plane that, say, the vast majority of citizens don't want to work until 67, and the HDZ is pushing that story, and that's why Live Wall stopped by a referendum initiative to go back to 65. age to retire. Ha, of course it doesn't suit you because it's against your policy, and you don't run that policy because you want to run it, it's the biggest paradox. I'm sure a colleague of Culej, Loncar and Boric and the rest of the HDZ, and not even you, Reinera, has asked you to hear what you think about having to go from 67. Retired, I believe that you would say, listen, if it were up to me personally, so I would, I think it's normal with 65, that's my opinion. Well, then the question arises whether this breaking of the referendum wants to deny only the will of the public or the voter or the will of you as representatives? And you will quickly realize that in fact the whole system of ruling our country is undemocratic, that the Directives come from outside, we have to implement them. And you will see that your own opinion in this system has become irrelevant, simply, no matter what you think, a certain policy must be conducted. But as final proof that you don't care about transparency, I need to read an article to correctly state the data, namely, one information I incorrectly stated in a previous replica. Says like this, JOLLY Autoline from Sibenik received a tender at the beginning of this month to deliver 20 buses of Mercedes brand to Split Transport. The contract was signed by Minister Gabriela Žalac. However, says luxury Mercedes E class, worth at least EUR 50,000,00 and owned by a luxury car rental company JOLLY Autoline has already been parked in her house's yard in Vinkovci, according to the report. And now watch this, says the car was bought by parents two months ago, he's rented through a rental contract, he'll probably buy it, said Gabriela Žalac. He says, and you don't have an answer from the government of Andrej Plenkovic... suspicions, and why suspicions, because, it is said that the contract on the purchase of those buses she signed was signed with the company JOLLY AUTOline d.o.o. from Sibenik, and the same company, JOLLY Autoline, suddenly their car is parked outside Minister Žalac's house, so the media reported, so the company is from Sibenik. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask, if, if, if this is true, as none of you in HDZ, and you're wise heads, so you didn't come out of Sacristia, I would say to the HDZ gentlemen, you've literally said to the devil in the bag, and now you don't see the connection between, between Mercedes owned by a company parked in the minister's yard, and at the same time the minister signed a contract with that company to give them a job and you don't see it, you don't see any common thread, link, you don't see, so to say, what's called a logical sequence of events, I would say to you, a coincidence, as a coincidence, that's what happened, imagine a game of cases, like in evolution, by chance, how, by chance. But you here, there's another expression, the theory of spontaneous events, by chance that car was there, by chance she just signed a contract for those buses assuming, of course, that what the media reported was true. However, from the response of Minister Žalac and from what the media wrote, I personally got the impression that the car was actually standing there and that it was indeed from the company with which she signed the lease. And now what? You're pushing some law here by convincing all of us that the law is being conducted to increase transparency, so here's the case in your own government, HDZ, your own HDZ minister, where, personally, it looks like something that isn't nice to me, that's what it's all by law, that phrase old, etc. And let me tell you one more thing, here, he's looking for a DORH for me two months in prison for writing graphite in the Sesvedi. Let's start by assuming I'm guilty, gentlemen, here we go from assuming I'm guilty. See how much Cobankovic got for the affair where, according to his own recognition, he overpaid the million-dollar building, got a peeling of potatoes. You have a son of General Kruljec's case, a bunch of drugs, a bunch of cash, charity work, so how come I can't get charity work? Here I am offering myself as a penitent to the DORH, here, can I get charity work, here I will confess, I will repent, behold, that charity was reserved only for your members? That's the question I'm asking you. What the court is offering me is a conditional conviction, I don't want parole, give me either prison or charity, I don't agree to anything in between because I want to expose this farce, I want to show that there are two different criteria in this country and that our citizens or the public are clearly being made a fool of. And in this situation, it is my duty to point out, it is my duty to point out that you who talk about transparency and honesty, the minister acts that way. I've seen the title of what the newspaper says Plenkovic, so it doesn't matter if it doesn't have a driver's license, it doesn't mean he doesn't know how to drive, and so tell the judge who's the tractor driver, who was driving without the driver's tractor, gave him 10 days in prison, so even he said, I mean, he obviously knew how to drive it when he was driving it, how that tractor driver, how like Plenkovic in his defense, never stopped and said, and man always said, what now, what doesn't have a driver't have a driver's license, like always some bums, unfortunates, political opponents are in troubles, and all the HDZ members are always in some amazing way, there's always a way to find an explanation of someone, always seems to be coming out in their favor, so you're some mysterious organization, to me, is it're not clear to me, are you control of the justice, what is my people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132636	Next individual debates by respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132637	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. So here's what I'm saying about the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. I think it's a good law, two readings, we've given everyone a chance to say what they think about it, there were public debates, and broadly, there were those who support the same, and those who don't support it more or less in the referendum section, but trying to listen to everyone today, I haven't found any too big remarks except small, tiny details that are more... for reasons not to vote for this Law, but because they were justified, or to arrange something better than what this Law foresees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which regulates the funding they all talked about, and they all had certain examples, they were mostly looking at the Croatian Democratic Community, and I'm sorry they're not there that there's no synonym for non-transparency, as they say, we show on their examples, so they can listen, see what they were doing, because in every campaign and government, and testing, and HDZ, and any other party has posters, they have videos, and everything else, it's just a question of who wants to say or admit that they have posters and videos. That's why this quick forgetfulness is a little strange today, especially from some of these colleagues, but I'm going to give examples in the end just to know who calls us, and what are all these parliamentary deputies doing, and who are these moral verticals of Croatian societies today, because what does this law bring when we talk about, say, financial reports? We've had a recent report for all parties, HDZ's got an impeccable opinion, unconditionally, neatly with all the necessary plans, expenses, descriptions, and then we have to listen to these circulations every day by the opposition, because that they're perfect, they're doing great and so on. What does the Law say? Simply entering financial reports into the DIP app, which we may not have had in the best possible way so far, and I know when local elections are what the problem is where to publish, where to publish. And they just don't get along in political space, there are people, especially in local elections, they want to be a councilman, they want to be an independent councilman, they don't know what to do, especially independent councilmen, and very well arranged here to know what they're doing and how they behave, because they also want to become members of a political party at some point, so they'd be a little bit independent, so they'd be members of political parties. And who's got a problem? They have local or regional administrations and deal with them as much as you want, it's known from experience. We have the funding of the referendum, perhaps the biggest shouts. For what? We want to know what is being financed, as well as the political parties, which is controversial. Then everyone's after some grandmother who's given ten kunas, like there's no donors of 10, 50 thousand kuna, 100 thousand kuna, and recently we've witnessed examples that some referendum initiatives have ended up in indictments, just for donation. So there was no problem back then? Yeah, there was a problem, so why don't we fix it? Well, of course, because, as too many rules, it bothers everyone. Like they don't deal with politics, so every referendum is some kind of reaction to the political move mostly by the authorities, certainly not opposition, but mostly by the authorities. There were several referendum initiatives in the previous SDP government, one passed, several failed. He found then the secretary of the administration a way to make sure there wasn't a referendum, or there weren't enough signatures, or there weren't enough voters, or there wasn't enough good enough questions, and so on, but from a few questions, one single referendum was then passed. What else is prescribed? Regular funding from the state, local and regional budgets. I think it's a good solution and it's already been tried, and it works without any problems, prescribed a minimum level. Why not? So if some local self-government thinks that the work of political parties may be equal to or perhaps smaller, or greater than what we give to associations, it's very large there. Why not make a decision all together or mostly that the work of political parties on the ground, that is, in local self-government, pays exactly, not so much, not under, say, a thousand kunas in the municipality of up to 3,000 inhabitants, if possible more, can be more, if not, there will be a thousand kunas. Complete editing of independent agents, I said, of course... for our local self-government, because we have a situation to get into the coalition, I don't know, a list of SDPs or some other parties, so they stand out and want to have, uh, their incomes, so they don't know whose account they have to go to, so they make a whole mess on the ground. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What else is prescribed? Mandatory local self-governments and regional governments, by 01.03., submit a financial report on the funds paid to political parties, which, in accordance with all the financial reports we submit by 01.03. or 19.03., is quite fine and I don't think it's any extra great effort, because more or less these funds are mostly equal every year, or if there is no new... The allocation of funds according to the final results of the election, to avoid these situations, that this gentleman who now went out said he could be in three parties, so one party million kuna, then says when they entered a place where it wasn't nice, no, then they said that they would give it back, that they would, they would, they would donate, and all the time they ran here when they entered the Parliament, they were at the secretary's door how to make the funding, they didn't know at all whether they had a party since they faked signatures in the congregations and so on, and so on, and they teach lessons to everyone here today as far as I see it, there's another example but to get to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no funds if you don't open a special account, all right. We have a situation where many people go to elections, especially locally, and they don't want to make the slightest minimum that he's asked to open a special account, but he'd have something like that in a hurry if nobody asked him anything, no. Open a special account and close it as they must open it and all those who are members of political parties, what would be different? Under the represented sex 40%, 10% more compensation that works, and I think it's quite fine. Payments on the client's account until the end, so until the account closes, it's okay because we have expenses that come up and when you close the account, you might get an invoice that might be lost or so on. And then you have a problem. The restriction on donations to natural and legal persons has been explained why so much. Why so much? Well, that's what we've had so far, I mean, it's not something new, so why don't we just limit ourselves to who gives. A natural person is also a member of a party that also grants a donation to its party, so it is a sport that is used and as far as I know. Well, we all donate something to our own party. What would we forbid ourselves? Furthermore, as for the return of the funds spent, the coalition's common list, that's where I miss this Mr. Bunjac. We have a situation from the second and third constituency, they were in coalition with the party Croatian Democratic Peasants Party and told the man, let's work for us and we'll split the costs when it's over. The man worked for them they came to us give us that 40,000 we have expenses, says you can't even come to a meeting where you talk about the distribution of costs and who's going to pay it, the rest of the man to pay for it himself. Is that correct? But they're giving those lessons to everyone today I'm telling here. Excess funds, returns to the political party. And now we get to say to these examples, Miro Bulj 150,000 kuna in the campaign he paid his vote between 4 and 5 kuna, I'm not so much, I don't know if any of my colleagues spent so much, but he doesn't think about those things he thinks that everyone else is in a bad relationship, he's great, he was immediately recognized, he wasn't on the radio, he wasn't on the poster, anywhere, he's the best, when we look, because it's all public. We can find a financial report for each page. We see the way they acted, says the grudges now I don't know, in some elections in Face who published what, etc. The election for Mayor Nikola Grmoy 0 Kuna, what kind of election it is, who can become mayor with 0 kuna. Well, it's a miracle of people. So, we heard the SDP working on us all the time, and they were executed by their member, the former SDP member, and not for a small amount, for nine million kunas, so there was a square on Ibler, so how are we going to pay, so how are we going to get back no, there was a race, then a deal. Why did they do it? Why did he do it? And because they were messing around in that campaign in 2009, it's not like a man remembered, but you owe me something. Well there were some videos, posters, maybe some shows, etc., they forgot, made you and your member, when we talk about transparency. So I say there's going to be a referendum of the initiative, and as far as the referendum is concerned, the one that's been announced for 67 years, that's what the SDP brought back in 2014 and we're wondering where the unions were. They're four years old. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132638	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for this debate. We have several replicas, dear colleague Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132639	You're saying party members donate their party, it's natural, it's normal, here's the data for last year's HNS coalition partner. Vrdoljak 15.000 kuna, Vrdoljak then Minister Štromar, then Assembly representative Bernarda Topoloko and Bozica Makar, then the city's representative did not get his name. That's what we're talking about, that's what I was talking about in my debate, that's how you get ministerial seats, that's how you get places on the list, that's how you become a city representative, so, through donations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132640	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132641	You have even described why donations are made, as well as that it is possible for one who is in power to return the service and you have described exactly what the SDP was doing when it was in power from 2011 to 2015, right. So you had donations back then, we remember, so that means that you returned the favors to all those who donated to you when you described it that way. Are you behind it? Do you want to use it on someone else all the time? So this story about the CNS or any other party, there will come a time now especially when the election that party members will donate their parties, and plus they pay membership fees and it is today a regulated system and there is no escape from it and they get confirmation that they donated. And all of them are talking today, so why would some others get confirmations or why someone should get a certificate for 50 or 100 kuna, so let's keep it out of some system because it's good today, and then there won't be any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132642	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132643	Dear fellow Boric, here in the debate is mentioned and you mentioned the referendum and it is really good that the funding of the referendum is regulated as well as the political parties, so the special account and donations that up to 5,000 kuna are one treatment, over 5,000 kuna is a contract, so it's all the same as what you said political activity and it's very important that this part of the funding is then properly resolved through the provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132644	I would like to thank my colleague Boric for his response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132645	Thank you very much, colleague Peric is true and we say we had a referendum that took place and several attempts to take place a referendum, that the people then say what he is or what he thinks about a particular question, did not happen, did not happen on this last one either, the question is what will be on this one. We have a situation where the public is convinced all the time that this government said that at the age of 67 they're going to retire. The decision we have and the law of 2014 and after 4 years someone remembers to say, here it goes at 67 years. Well, it's an attempt to manipulate and untrue something on the back of this government. 67 years Minister Miranda Mrsic in 2014, that's true, and everyone is running away from it and saying SDP and we will support it, and we will support it. Well, it's all a political struggle, but let's not lie to people who may not know the exact information, and it'll certainly cost something. And listen to me say unions and everyone else. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132646	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for his reply. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST esteemed colleague Prof. Robert Dolnjak, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132647	Mr. Vice-President HS, I told you about the fundamental problems of adopting this law, primarily from the point of view of the procedure and the fact that the last moment, with the assistance of the Legislator Committee, I decided that this law would be applied very quickly, but for these elections for European representatives and that it should enter the day after the publication in the National Journal, not 8 days after the publication as a rule of law and as the principle prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, of course, they did not give any particularly justified reasons why this would be the case, except for the one who did not, but it is particularly justified from their point of view, which is that under the new European elections law, electoral promotion of up to 4 million kunas can be financed, and according to the current law, it is a million and a half kuna, and that is a key difference, and that is the key reason and all we are talking about is the great hurry to bring this law into force for this reason. We also have an existing law, it also has very high quality provisions on monitoring the annual financing of parties, on their reporting and on the State Election Commission and the Audit Office, and we have quality provisions on election promotion that can, of course, be improved, but this does not seem to be in a way that the provisions take effect netly before the election is called for representatives in the European Parliament. We have therefore proposed the following, we have proposed a conclusion that requires a third reading regarding this law because we have submitted 888 amendments to this Final Bill. In these amendments, we also speak of the reasons why we are against a series of provisions in this proposed law, which are provisions that allow multiple donations, therefore, multiple donations to political parties, MPs, independent council members, where in fact you do not have a restriction on legal and physical persons because they can donate, not only to one party, to one representative independent or to one councilman, but they can donate to a greater number of both parties and council members, which allows a far greater range of donations than would be appropriate. We are also against the provisions that force local representative bodies to set aside in the budget the money for the political parties required by this law, we believe that it is a retroactive provision because the budgets have already been adopted. Similarly, we oppose the provisions that are in this law, which is that when an independent representative or an independent councilman changes his status and becomes a member of the party, automatically according to the provisions of this law, the money he received as an independent councilman or an independent representative, is transferred to a political party whose member he has become and we believe that this is a source of possible political corruption and we strongly oppose it, which is contrary to Article. The 6th law, which says political parties will receive only the money that they have earned on the basis of the number and MPs or local council members in a representative body. So, to make it simple, that they only have the money from the budget that, I say under quotes, has earned the basic choice by the vote of the citizens, everything else is wrong and therefore later the transfer of money from independent councilors or MPs is just a possible source and fatigue of political corruption. If we have about a hundred independent mayors or mayors in the Republic of Croatia, this means that we have hundreds of independent councilors and that provision is particularly relevant to them. And of course, I asked for the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, relating to certain provisions which are contrary to the Constitution and which, having a feedback, have not explained it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132648	I thank my esteemed colleague Robert Dolnjak for this final word. Final word on behalf of the Proposer, Madam Secretary of State. Josepha Rimac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132649	Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, on behalf of the motionor at the very end, I would like to thank you for all the constructive suggestions, criticisms and warnings, but also, therefore, some of them in the period between the first reading and the second reading, and we accepted, which I put out at the beginning of today's debate. I would also like to point out once again that the Final Proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, clearly and more transparently defines, means, on a regular basis, the financing of political parties and means, financing of electoral promotion, but also defines a referendum issue. A few things are there through the debate, so the rest is open, perhaps not clear enough although it is clearly defined in the articles of the law, so when we talk about financing, we clearly differentiated regular annual funding from what it means to vote, amounts proposed or proposed in this final proposal of the Law are maximum amounts, which does not mean that as such they should be spent, so... We are talking about the level, so whether we are talking about local elections, according to the size of the unit of local and regional self-government, whether we are talking about European, presidential or parliamentary elections in the Croatian Parliament, these are maximum amounts, which does not mean that, as such, they must be spent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also when we talk about donation levels, these are maximum amounts, which does not mean that as such they will be paid. Hypothetically, we can count on whether someone can donate more individuals to election campaigns or more political options, I'd just like to see who's going to be that big when we hypothetically calculate them, and spend it. But what's most important is that by introducing an information system, every kuna, every donation means, even those funds from the budget, the state budget and local budgets are clear, visible, transparent, available to the public and at all times, we can know who is who and how much funding they have in regular or means in election promotion. Once again on behalf of the promoter, I want to thank you for all suggestions, remarks, and I hope that this Law will have full, most of it means, winning support in the Croatian Parliament and that it will come into effect as such quickly. What is important is that, so the Committees, who have discussed this final proposal of the Law, did not have any more significant observations, that we have passed all the procedures, that we have given enough time to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the interested public, that we have passed the full meaning of the procedure and that today we are in the second reading, and that when you look at the first moment when the Law as such began to be created through the Working Group, so to this day it means who took part and how much we have had a transparent display of this Bill proposal, it says that there is no speed, nor that here we are talking about any ad hoc law, but the Law that has passed all the procedures. I thank you again on my personal behalf, and on behalf of the motionary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132650	I thank the secretary of state for this closing statement, we have several replicas. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132651	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I know you can't show yourself on my amendment right now, but this will be done by the Government after the debate, but here I am interested in your personal opinion, what do you think, since you yourself have been the local head and head of the local party for many years, is it personally acceptable for you, that those little supporters who, with modest means, co-finance political parties... 20, 30 kuna, should now exercise certificates or deliver statements that they do not have any debt to the state budget that could then cause additional funds, in the meantime I have submitted an amendment to, which regulates this referendum issue, so that those citizens who have blocked accounts, and want to financially support some referendum initiative, do not have to do so anymore, so that freely all of them, independently of their financial status, can co-finance those who want to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm interested in your personal opinion. Is that acceptable to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132652	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. Secretary of State Rimac's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132653	Since we have, as promoters, predicted that these individuals would mean this statement themselves and signed it and by their signature means guaranteeing what they have written, I don't see any obstacles to doing so precisely for transparency, and contracts sign means more than five thousand kuna donations. But in any case, we must say and thank you for your constructive discussion, and I see that you have read the Law very well and that you have given us correct comments on the Law and I am glad that here and in your opinion we have been able to fix the existing Law and correct it between the first and the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132654	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132655	Dear Secretary of State, you are in violation of the Code of Good Practice in the election issues of the Council of Europe by such a proposal and by the law on force. So, at the same time as your government proposes foreign minister for the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, you are simultaneously sending a completely wrong message that you do not accept some fundamental principles of this same Council of Europe organisation. So, how can we not respect an important code which obliges us not to amend electoral legislation in the election year, and at the same time we want to have, at the same time, a person from the Republic of Croatia, on such a high duty in that organization on the duty of the secretary-general or secretary-general. What kind of message we are sending and what message they will receive there in the Council of Europe, after such behaviour and violation of the code of good practice on election issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132656	Thank you. I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. Answer, Secretary of State of Rome, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132657	... If you're talking about the recommendations of the Venice Commission, they're saying that it doesn't change, so in the election year, it's actually the electoral law. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] By changing the meaning of the Law which speaks means how to finance the political activity of the electoral promotion and referendum, we do not enter into electoral rights. So I think that what you've given as your comment does not stand if we're talking about the good practice of the Venice Commission as well as the recommendations of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132658	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132659	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Both in your presentation today, and during the debate was mentioned a lot, here and now fellow Stazic recently about the donations of party members to the party party. I would just like to remind myself of the concept of financing political parties based on the mandates they have achieved in representative bodies, and why is that? In order to minimise the dependence of political parties on donations, third parties, to be as independent as possible. That they don't depend on anyone and don't have any debts. Well, then I'm asking, is it better if someone goes on their own campaign donating to their own party than someone donates to the third party? Or, specifically, I personally, too, as much as I can, according to the possibilities I donate to strangers, we last gathered in Osijek, responded to the appeal of the Clinical Hospital Center, donated to our own party, eventually bought a monitor to monitor vital functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132660	Thank you, dear colleague Curai. Next replica, dear colleague Nenad Stazic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132661	You say respected secretary of state, that when it comes to funding more candidates, it is unthinkable for you that someone would finance candidates from the opposite sides. I'm surprised at the lack of your imagination. So imagine the second round of presidential elections. There are only two candidates and one legal person who won't take any chances, they'll finance both, so whoever wins, he wins. And they'll have an impact on that new president or new president. So what you wrote here, it's completely unspeakable, it's unthinkable or it's made up, it's exactly how I say it is going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132662	Thank you, fellow Stazic. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. One more thank you. You can't just say that, you're a little bit of a break, you took advantage of the lines, so you have no right to say anything anymore. I thank the Honorable State Secretary Josipi Rimac and the Head of the Service Jadranka Jurinjak and also the Minister of Management Lovri Kuštević, who joined us on this... Dear colleague Podolnjak, I make you... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Podolnjak, I ask you nicely not to enter the word as I speak. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132663	We will now move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, second reading, P.Z. Number 519. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Legislatives Committee, the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the representative of Saša Djujic, the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU, the Club of Independents, let's ask you colleague Bulj, your colleague, Mr. Grmoja, told me that I did not know how to hold the order, so now you stick to the order of the board of representatives of the Most Independent Lists, representative Miro Bulj, representative of Robert Podolnjak, representative of Hrvoje Runtić, representative of Slaven Dobrijević, representative of Ante Pranic, representative of Ivana Nenčević-Lesandrić, representative of Bozo Petrov, representative of Sonja Cikotić, representative of Slaven Sladoljević, representative of the Ines Stračja, representative of the Croatian Party of the Democratic party, the Republic of Croatia. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. Before we cross, I can see that we're looking for a break later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132664	Thank you, Vice President. I would ask you to take a break on behalf of the HNS Club for consultation, first of all, so that, and this way, I would point out that the HNS Club will not participate in these discussions on amendments, given how, although the business opportunity and democratic right to this kind of practice is that, but now we can say normally, that the amendments are reproduced and duplicated with the same content just because of the possibility of debate and the difficulty of time, so we think that our presence here is absolutely no use to anyone, given that neither the Rules of Procedure nor the replicas nor the individual or any debates, and this way we want to say that we also want to be part of this amendment that we have accepted, therefore, with which we have requested that the said amounts be reduced by at least 20% and I hope that, if not entirely, partly, the same thing we accept, and once again, we do not want to be part of this delay, obviously, and of course, an absolute business opportunity in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132665	Thank you. My colleague Grumo has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, and what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132666	Dear Vice President. The Rules of Procedure have been injured, Article 238, so a representative may seek a break on the subject under discussion, a statement on amendments, rather than commenting on which reason a particular club has given so many amendments. A party that, at the moment with big jumbo posters all over Croatia, past the start of election prominence with its candidate, Matija Posavca advertises, I know that she does not respond to the story of financing election promotion where MOST requires a reduction, but this is a very incorrect and anti-business comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132667	Okay. This article, the article that you cited, doesn't even talk about it is, uh, so I'm asking you not to abuse it, I won't give you a warning, but don't abuse the institutions of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Uh, so, as we said, the amendment proposal was delivered to you by electronic means, and yes, I'm sorry, uh, I'm giving, of course, my mistake, I'm giving, I'm giving, I'm giving, I'm giving, I'm giving, I'm giving, I'm giving, I'm giving, I'm giving, I'm giving, of course, 13-10 hours. I'm sorry, 15.10, I'm sorry, I was gonna say 3.10. The session was interrupted at 15.00 hours. CONTINUE OF THE MEETING IN 15:10 A.M., we are now continuing to work on the final, the declaration of amendments, but before that we welcome the students and students of the classic school of Ivan Paul II. from Zadar watching us from the gallery. ... So, I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, it will be the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Administration, Mrs. Josipa Rimac, and we will move on with Amendment One. [[Applause.]] Here you are, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132669	Dear Vice President, I request a recess on behalf of the Most Club, in order to consult the meaning of the continuation of this declaration on amendments. It is clear what is the intention of the ruling Croatian Democratic Union, HNS and partners, to raise money for election promotion from 1.5 million kuna to 4 million kuna. You are trying to break over your knee, pass the law because the president announced that by the end of this week, as far as Monday, he must call elections for the European Parliament, and all you care about is money. You want to get as much money as possible, and you're not as expedient or as fast as possible when it comes to the laws that go in favor of our citizens, when it comes to the executive law, when it comes to judicial reform, when we require public administration reform, we have left you with an action plan that respects the State Secretary in the Ministry of Administration, which would ultimately allow for a more quality public administration, to reach fewer employees, to know in this public administration what each man is doing, how successful he is in doing his job, and ultimately what we are asking for, but we are not talking about, but we are doing, in the process of amending the electoral law, however, and at the local level and local level, but also at the state level, as well as at the same time, that you want to spend more money in the process. We will try to prevent you from passing this Act through these amendments, if we fail, at least we will know that we have done our best, that we are the only one here in the Croatian Parliament, you see there is no one but MOST MPs fought against this self-will HDZ, maybe there is a colleague Alexic, I haven't seen him, I haven't seen him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132670	Thank you. Of course I'll take a break by 15.24 minutes. SESSION Interrupted at 15.14 p.m. CONTINUE OF THE SESSION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.24 HOURS HERE IT IS, OUR SURVEILLANCE IS OVER, SO AS WE SAID WE HAVE FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE MOST'S FIRST AMENDMENT OF THE MOST'S AUTHORITIES, AND, HERE YOU GO, THE IMPLEMENT OF THE RULES OF THE PUBLISHER'S PUBLIC. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132672	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament and Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, you have injured Article 236. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because on my request to convene a meeting of the Committee and to discuss the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and regarding this above-mentioned Law and amendments, you did not call for a session of the Committee on the Constitution, and you yourself decided that the meeting of the Committee would not be convened. So, you as one member, as president, cannot decide on your own that the Committee will not meet and that it is not authorised to discuss my injury to the Rules of Procedure. So you can't decide for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132673	So, to you, you're out of time. I can decide that, and I have done it a few times before, for example, there are no colleagues of Bauk, when he asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it was not a matter, therefore, of being the Institute of Infringement of the Rules, but rather a matter related to the Laws and so on, he accepted it and it was a normal practice, therefore, you know that because you are also a member of this Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, therefore, you had nothing to say on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, therefore, this is what I did. Of course you can always react to the law, whether in the form of amendments, and thank God there are now about 900 of them, you can if you think that I did wrong you can, uh, or that the Law is anti-constitutional, of course you can also address the Constitutional Court, there are mechanisms of course of action. Here, fellow Bull, you've done the same damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132674	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have injured Article 336, because Professor Podolnjak, as a representative, has in a procedural way asked to convene a session, the session is not absolutely called and you do not have this autonomous right on behalf of all of us MPs, you are also a representative of the Committee, regardless of what you are president, you are the same among the same, and I believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. And the whole procedure of this law is essentially broken, it would be best if you would pull them back, you or we would interrupt the session, and that committee would be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132675	I've spoken to my colleagues, and the same answer is true for you. So, we're going to the Advocacy Club, the first amendment to the club of representatives of the independent lists, here's your colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132676	Your Honor, I would like to request a recess on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives. It is related to this Law, with these funds rising for the election campaign, because we believe that the Croatian Democratic Community here is trying to facilitate its campaign, to get as many votes as possible, to show that they are the most desirable, the best in this country, how they are loved by voters, which is not true because we have seen in the elections in Lika that they have received twice as many votes. I think we need to consult and see how we're going to proceed with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132677	Okay. Of course I'll give it to you, so I'll see you at 3:38. The session was interrupted at 3:28 p.m. Here it is, now for the third time we will try this, so the first amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, and equal to 12 amendments of identical content. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132679	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, I am looking for a ten-minute break in order to consult once again within the Club on the fact that this Law wants to increase the funds given to politicians, especially this for the Euro Parliamentary elections, at a time when in Croatia about 1/5 citizens live in poverty, when, among which several hundred thousand children who show that they do not have even their own clothes, have no bed, let alone to have the possibility to access the Internet, telephone, so that they can go to some sports activities, excursions, prom trips, or that they could possibly have their own room where they could learn in peace. Also, their parents are doing superhuman efforts to ensure their children's basic existence in a way that they are personally disowning, say even food, that they are exceedingly saving on directors, let's say even on heating, and on this side we find it completely inappropriate that these funds are therefore increasing by 100 to 200%, and all just so that 12 party people are taken care of in Brussels, means that they will not actually do anything useful for the Croatian people except, that is, to represent some false glow from which this people have very little benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132680	Thank you. Of course, I'll see you at 15.53. 15.53, yes. SESSION Interrupted at 15.43 p.m. Here it is, and this break is over, so I'm going to ask the Honorable Secretary of State for Joseph the Roman. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.52 HOURS]] As the first 12 amendments are identical, please be made known to them. They're identical, it can be about everyone... No, no, and you will speak each, of course. So, the first amendment to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, who on behalf of...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132682	The Honorable Vice-President of HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. As far as the amendments are concerned, the proposed amendment is not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing and financing other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132683	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of the Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132684	... Dear colleagues and colleagues, we should discuss amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder: Turn yourself in, colleague Podolnjak.]] However, this is a completely wrong name of the law. In fact, this law should be called a 4 million-dollar Lex for HDZ and election promotion partners for the election of EU members. This is the real name of this law because this law must enter into force before the EU elections are called for by the parliament to be called by the President of the Republic and therefore by this super fast procedure. Since yesterday's debate, today's statement on hundreds of amendments, tomorrow's vote. This law must be sent urgently to the president of the Republic, then to the National Journal, so that it is announced, in order to enter into force before the president calls the elections on Monday. For one single reason, the law stipulates that the upcoming EU elections will not be spent as so far, 1.5 million kuna, but will be able to spend 4 million kuna. For these elections alone, a drastically higher amount is foreseen. HDZ and partners lack money to embellish an image they cannot embellish before this election and convince the citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132685	Second Amendment, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132686	They have to give me my time back, but it doesn't matter. Here has been mixed up in this law, the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions with the referendum. That's what you mixed the pears and apples. And now you're still actually hitting, with the money being raised for 2 million kunas, 2.4 million kunas, so you can spend, that you can achieve the results, that you can have a campaign, a lambish, buying lambs, you're this way and so buying voters, you're this law lex shush, because here it's only about the shish, this is absolutely one law that, the referendum went with this is a blow to what Kushčević's already doing all the time. Of course, here is the brain of Operation Vladimir Seks, who would like to bury the referendum initiatives, he is the undertaker of the referendum initiatives, he wrote as the founder of one Constitution, in essence, he is the undertaker of Croatian democracy, he humiliated this high home, he humiliated the people who have collected signatures for amendments to the Electoral Law and other initiatives, so this is the continuation of a cemetery policy to violate the Constitution where people exercise power by choosing their representatives, here the representatives have absolutely no influence either as parliamentary representatives or direct decision, i.e. Direct decision-making, by this law you are mixing your lice with a referendum di you are making referenda initiatives difficult, and in such a way should be expelled immediately, of course, that it is unnecessary to mix a referendum and a political party, because by the will of the majority, the will of the people comes from this Parliament, therefore, this is a disastrous proposal of the law of lex chuška It's just about the money. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132687	Third amendment. Ha you have all the amendments ahead of you, who wants to answer And the one who knows, I guess he knows. [[Intruder: Please, whose amendment is it?]] No, no, no, sorry, I don't have to read, I don't have to read, if someone's given the amendment, he knows he's given the amendment. [[Intruder: No, no, you read.]] Come on, Agent Robert Dolenjak. [[Intruder: Speakers speak at the same time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132688	Mr. Vice President. You are obliged to say whose amendment is and which individual agent. It doesn't have to be from someone at the MOST, it could be some other club reps. This bill governing political activities and financing of electoral promotion is a law that we already have in force, which has even the same name, except for the referendum. So, for the citizens to know, this isn't about an area that isn't arranged. We will, therefore, also have these elections for the EU parliament governed by the existing law, so there was no need for this law to take effect one day after the announcement. He, even under the government's proposal, should have entered normal somewhere during the upcoming elections before the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives that you support, and not applied since before the elections, in order to increase the funding of the stand for the EU elections parliament. And if you had any political sensitivity, you would not force this law beyond all democratic parliamentary procedures, past good parliamentary practices, to discuss the law, to come into force how laws must come into force and to apply after these elections, or at the beginning of the second calendar year, so as not to affect election promotions. Unfortunately, however, you do not stick to parliamentary I'm looking for a vote for that, too. [[Intruder: Fourth.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132689	4th Amendment of MP Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132690	Thank you. Just before, my colleague Bulj said this was about pears and apples, so I would like to draw attention to the need for literacy, in general, means not only in Croatia today and in general in the world we live in the time of emoticons etc. And literacy is pretty much what I'd say threatened. But there are people in the ministries who are getting paid to regulate every law, we have technical, right, as far as I know, and I know that this is about every document being done, let's say, more impenetrablely, to make as little ambiguity as possible, etc. When we pass the law on pears, then it would be logical that this law is called the Law on pears, and when we pass the law on apples or I don't know, it would be logical to call a law on or, say, the Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Law on rotten apples. But if we're passing the pear law, and we're calling it the pear law and rotten apples, then we're illiterate. Or we're half-written, for example. So that's why this amendment and that's why, so let's say some kind of appeal to be read a little bit more because people who read are more written, so they know how to express themselves better, so they can write better, and then maybe the appeal to these state-level scorers in the ministries, to keep in mind that every time they express themselves, they can be concrete and that what they communicate is clear. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132691	I thank my colleague Runtic. We move to the 5th Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132692	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, we have brought, we have proposed this amendment to draw attention to what is important, namely, it is amazing that today, here are a few days before the EU elections will be called, we are making a law that raises the amount of money provided for financing, so 4 million kunas, so from 1.5 million kuna. Is it not good to wonder, how it is necessary to invest more and more money in order to make the picture beautiful, so it is a clear beauty of the picture because the idea of politicians and politicians is bad enough for young people to cross the border and that young, educated, young with families and that should be our focus, but it is not a focus. We've got a lot of resistors where nothing seems to be done. We are talking about the absorption of European money, but the money stands in one big register, the public calls are not being debated, the time is passing, the obligations remain, I wonder, who will be responsible for it? Who will be responsible for doing nothing about, say, a measure of sustainable development and waste management where cities and municipalities persist, i.e. They're waiting for something to happen, nothing's happening, and here we are, here in a short time, when the state's apparatus is set up, anything can be done to make it easy, legally funded, so campaign, and in terms of when Our young men are crossing the border. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm asking for a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132693	A respected colleague, Slaven Dobrovic. We're moving on to the Sixth Amendment. Honored representative Ante Pranic. He's not present. We move to the 7th Amendment of the Honored Representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric. She's gone. We move on to the 8th Amendment of the Honored Representative, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. God Petrov. He's gone. We move to the 9th Amendment of Honored Representative Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132694	First, I must express one regret that the government has made no effort at all to come up with, to send a meaningful explanation of this first amendment to our article of this law. I agree that the law should not be called the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, but the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. What's important is to point out that this government, when something is in her interest, something comes on the agenda in seven days. We in Croatia have 300 thousand children who are actually exposed to poverty. We have one-fifth of citizens living under certain inappropriate conditions for... the status of citizens in the civilized world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, from this resolution ministry of yours, it was overlooked in the first quarter of 2017 to come out of the Agency Act that we left in the Ministry of Administration drawers. Of course, you didn't pass the Agency Act because it's not in your best interest. It's not in your best interest to arrange the area for public agencies to act. You are not in the interest of or conducting a public administration reform because of the total of 880 million kuna, you are on Day 31. 12. 2018 used only 17 million kuna. I must also say that it is not the same action of political parties and the action of those referendum initiatives that come from citizens. We cannot, in the same way, regulate in the same law the actual initiatives that come from citizens because citizens are not funded by public money. What this government wants is simple, you no longer have enough 1.5 million kuna to sell all over Croatia an election fog but you need 4 million kunas. Thank you, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132695	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sonja Cikotic. We're moving on to the 10th Amendment of Honored Representative Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132696	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we want to warn the Croatian public about this 888 amendment, so what is going on with this law passed by the Rules of Procedure and the Croatian Constitution. So the goal is clear, to allocate more money to a particular party for election promotion in the Republic of Croatia. And this is in a situation where all the time the government is justified that there is no money for professors, for professors' salaries, when there is no money for sick children and in fact we are now sending a message for all the activities that are desperately needed for Croatian citizens, there is no money only there is money for political parties i.e. a particular political party. I don't really understand why you went to changes to this law when you have your funding measures, so it's known that Mr. Mamic was your party's long-time financier, he's now in another country, but these money flows can still flow and in fact this is one law that sends a message to the Croatian public, in this country only parties, only political parties and that is determined. I'll just remind you that two years ago, the MOST, with its amendment, abolished the political parties of 15 million kuna and awarded Croatian science i.e. Science funds, and that's one of the messages we're sending, and this is the message you're sending, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132697	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev. We move on to the 11th Amendment of Honored Representatives of Ines Strenja, please welcome fellow Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132698	Thank you. So there's one law in front of us again that you show, you intend to show your muscles, you'll try to vote it, you'll probably vote it with the help of all those who support you no matter what they sell your soul, because of it and let down those who choose them. So it is not our intention to obstruct this law but to warn ourselves that there is no point in continuing to spend in this way like the money of our citizens' boredom, to warn us that it is not respected nor the Rules of Procedure, nor is the Constitution respected, you are passing a law that is contrary to action, which goes into effect contrary to what are the usual constitutional deadlines and the real law is just to show once again with the additional shooting of 2.5 million kuna that HDZ is the most honest, the smartest and most beautiful party on the Croatian scene but citizens see it, I hope that they will see, with how much zeal you solve many other things in Croatia that might actually improve the lives of our citizens, especially our children. Citizens will see how much time it actually takes for some other laws like the Family Law, such as laws that will eventually help some children have a maybe a little better future than they do now. The slowness of what it does in Croatia today, your administration, does only make it much clearer in fact and shows the picture that our children and our citizens are of no importance to you and that the only thing that matters to you is that those who won't vote for you are packing bags and leaving this country. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132699	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ines Strenja. We move on to the 12th Amendment of Honored Representative Nikola Grumoja, please welcome your colleague, Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132700	Thank you, Vice President. It's clear what this is all about. As my colleague Bulj said, some of the laws call lex Kuščević but can be called lex shushka freely because here is a matter of only money, here is the question of the only couple that HDZ wants to get to as soon as possible, it is clear that on the Committee on Legislation as said by a colleague Podocnjak, a decision has been made to enter into force immediately after publication in the National Journal or the day after, means before the President calls the elections, probably today, perhaps tomorrow or Monday, or Monday, I don't know, probably they are in cahoots, Mr Plenkovic and the President herself, so they want to pass this law and then increase their funds for election promotion. We see that their coalition partners like HNS are already being advertised through jumbo posters, I visited Croatia these days, we can see Mayor Matija Posavec almost as he wants us to say that his county is the most successful in Croatia, wants to send citizens a message to vote for them, but what concerns us all, the problems of Croatian citizens, inefficient and corrupt justice, inefficient and public administration, none of this is being solved but when it comes to increasing money for election promotion then it goes like this. We may not be able to stop HDZ from passing this law before the President sets elections but at least we will fight, we have shown here and today in the Croatian Parliament that MOST is the only true opposition that is trying to warn this problem and stop HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132701	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grmo. I'm guessing a vote. Thank you very much. [[I'm looking for a vote.]] We move to the 13th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt Dear Secretary of State Josepha Rimac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132702	... We therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law that regulates and finance other political activities. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132703	Thank you. Since the 13-24th amendment is the same content, I'm asking the secretary of state to take his seat, so we'll call her when she's re-explanatory. On behalf of the club, here you go, dear colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132704	Thank you. I must say for the sake of the public, and I never throw myself away with the heavy words that what has happened since yesterday morning, that the flagrant violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the HS because, following the amendment of the Legislative Committee, I asked the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to meet for violations of the Rules of Procedure of the HS and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And for the first time in three years since I was a representative at HS Vice-President and at the same time the Chair of the Constitutional Committee decided that he would not call a session of the Constitution Committee on the basis of a provision which states that he must do so, that the Committee must take a position on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, something unimaginable, this proposed law has no provisions and arguments, why it has a feedback, why the law will be passed with a deadline of entry into force the day after publication in the National Journal, contrary to what the Constitution requires. Contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. And instead of having the Committee on the Constitution, which also has representatives of other parties, the discussion and decision, the chairman of the Committee has even refused to call for a meeting and said that the Committee is not authorised to discuss it. I took power over all the board members. In the three years I've been a representative and a member of that committee, and I've been president, it's never happened. And this shows that you are ready to violate all democratic procedures, both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and parliamentary practice to vote this law tomorrow. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132705	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dolnjak. We move on to the 14th Amendment of the Honorable Representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132706	Well, this law is lex shush, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, it's all clear. It takes up to 2.5 million kuna to buy this lamb that's left, i.e. To move down, mainly as it was in Lica, we saw, there were more ministers than, behind every beech, I said yesterday, a minister appeared. From the President of the Parliament who today... i.e. It was forgiveness from the Minister and the current Mrs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The regretter, because whoever he mentions, is there is one of the strongest politicians, from politicians, as far as the late politicians are concerned, therefore, I consider HDZ to be in good relations with the PPD, he was in a good relationship with Agrokora, he was in a good relationship with them, I saw, when it was this assembly, there were all entrepreneurs, when it was Martina Dalic and his book, the biography. He was Emil Tedeschi who should finally return the money.../incomprehensible/... for the weapons he took, so here, he had good with HDZ, Prime Minister, praises him, he, the vice president knows, I raised and criminal charges for that money, he was then also the Deputy Director, he never returned the money for the weapons that Emil Tedeschi borrowed for the defense of the Chettino area, which is embarrassing and all those who were in the system can be ashamed of being protected by those who took the money. Let him show the bill when he gets it back, so here. When I talk about this, it's easy for you to find money for the campaign. He has an obligation to you as much as he has to. Who acquired empires when the blood spilled. When weapons were needed more than bread. A million and a half marks in interest, now 17m euros. And there's no pediatrician down there, there's no radiologist. They don't have basic needs, schools leak, no transportation secured, no textbooks, no water supply, no water supply, Ogorje, half of the Dalmatian mountain, so it's easy to find sponsors. However, it is more important for you to wrongly pass this law for the lex-shut, for this 2.5 million than to be calculated. with those who robbed Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132707	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We move on to the 15th Amendment of the Honored Representative, Roberta Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132708	Thank you. We were discussing the bill yesterday and Mrs. Devereaux was here. The secretary of state and we wanted to ask a number of questions precisely about the financing of referendum activities and that this is not the place in this law, but in the referendum law, which will soon be on the e- Consultation. And imagine what happened, therefore, during the entire debate was the secretary of state and when the debate ended and after the final talks on behalf of the clubs, after all the replicas, Minister Kuščević came to HS. In the last three years, I have not experienced a situation to discuss a point, that during the debate, the state secretaries are and that the debate ends and then the minister comes and asks the secretary of state or the secretary of state, tell me what the debate was. Instead of asking Mr. Minister questions and getting answers, so maybe there wouldn't be anyone with the amendment, he came after the debate, literally a minute after the end, and we were denied any question to which he might answer. It is absolutely unacceptable for me as a representative, and I have to tell the Croatian public, and therefore we do not accept the amendment concerning the referendum activities and therefore we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132709	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Robert Dolnjak. Dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am asking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to consult on a further course and voting and views on the Law on the financing of political parties, since this is clearly about a single attempt that Croatian citizens are deeply convinced to try... The campaign, the introduction of more money, and people are bitter that HDZ is overnight raising the campaign limit from a million to four million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think, neither that it is right nor that it should be, nor that it is funny to listen to the President of the Croatian Parliament when he humiliates Minister Žalac instead of saying that he should resign, all of this fits into one, I would say a very strange world of politicalism that today is ruling in Croatia, where Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, on the question whether Minister Žalac should go, answers HDZ will get 5 seats in elections. What does that have to do with each other? So it has nothing to do with each other at all. HDZ has been a winning party for 30 years, firstly it is incorrect, no, meaning 30 or 28 years old, of 29 years old, HDZ is in power, unfortunately, 21, no, and yet there were two coalition governments of eight years old, so it doesn't say it exactly either. So, on the other hand, we must simply consult on this amount of amendments that are proposed here to prevent violent acts, in order to prevent the violent procedure of the Croatian government that wants to amend a very important law overnight, and so much about how much they underestimate the Croatian Parliament, although I am not sorry that the secretary of state, but Mr Kuštević does not, so he is lost. He says he's sorry he doesn't have Mercedes, so maybe, maybe he's depressed that he doesn't have Mercedes as Minister Grief, so that's why he didn't come here today to defend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132711	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. I hope your colleagues are waiting for you at the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132712	Yeah, everybody's here. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132713	Okay. Now, since no one is present from your colleagues, I'm setting a recess by 16.45. The session was interrupted at 3:23 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues continue with the work of the plenary session, we move on to the 16th amendment of the respected colleague Hrvoje Runtic. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:45 A.M.]] Here you go, colleague Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132715	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, so the goal of lex shushke is actually to give the money right away. These days we have noticed that Croatia is already full of HNS posters, jumbo posters from which the man Posavec smiles in the light of the future and how he would tell you is somehow a bitter taste in the mouth when you know it, I mean it wouldn't be a problem if we were living in a different country, but in Croatia at this moment, according to the latest report by the attorney general who believe you read it, it's one catalogue of Croatian horrors, 27.9% of citizens living at risk of poverty or social exclusion. 27.9% of Croatian citizens therefore live at risk of poverty. And in such an environment to raise the amount to finance these activities from a million-and-a-half to four million kunas is simply rude. Of these, 27.9% of citizens who live at risk of poverty are most of your elderly, so the question is, how can we call ourselves society if we don't care first about those people who are on, on the edges of the meaning of society. That's what I wanted to say and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132716	I thank my esteemed colleague Runtic. We are moving on to the 17th Amendment of Honored Representative Slaven Dobrovic. Here's a colleague of Dobrovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132717	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, so these months we all know that the ministry has responded to the collection of signatures for the discussion of the referendum, so over 400,000 signatures and has been denied or invalidated over 40,000 or something signatures, and thus, of course, both of the two referendum initiatives in the area of failure. I wonder, now we're raising this bill the amount of money to fund the campaign, so legal, now can be spent legally, should be spent on the vote of this law 4 million kuna for these elections that come first. Of course it's marketing, marketing activities that make the picture beautiful. How much is possible with this money and how much could it possibly be to change people's changes, or opinions, after this experience with the referendum initiative? Is it possible to raise the quota to 50 or 100 million kunas that might even be found by some political parties in the potential zone, is it possible to regulate such a public picture, so that this beautiful picture so that no matter how we treat people and theirs, their desire to plead is therefore the most democratic, most direct statement, is it possible to solve everything by simply raising this quota. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132718	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. The respected colleague has no Franic, also has no counterpart Ivana Nincevic-Lesandric, so then we skip the 18th and 19th amendments. Also the 20th Amendment since there is no fellow vice president of Mr. God Petrov's assembly. We move on to the 21st Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic. Here's Sonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132719	This amendment requested that the words ‘referendum activity’ be deleted from the text of Article 1(1). Why? We believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. In fact, we were all witnessing that a parliamentary democracy was stolen in Croatia when MPs from certain elected parliamentary lists walked into the opposite camp. We were also witnesses that he stole some referendum initiative, or a direct democracy was stolen, 400,000 signatures were deleted, and they were brought down into a dark dark parliamentary basement. I do not understand how when this government plans to pass a referendum law that would make it clearer, more detailed in the words of the great reformer Kustević, it should regulate the new Law on the referendum, why referendum initiatives are being introduced into this law. In fact, we aim to make all the rules concerning the referendum initiatives the same and transparent for the new institute that announced the great reformer, which is against the referendum initiative. And that's why we're going to be advocating ourselves, we're going to be advocating that the laws are actually more transparent, and from the nomotechnics' point of view that all the legal rules governing the referendum initiatives are in one place, because the referendums are usually initiated by citizens, and these are folk initiatives, and for such initiatives, all the rules need to be in one place, that people are not looking for rules in these woods, in fact, the rules by which this same initiative should be implemented. But your goal is not to make it easier, your goal is to make it harder, please vote on this amendment Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132720	...to a respected colleague, Chikotic. We move on to the next amendment No. 22nd Honored colleague Mark Sladolev, here's a colleague of Sladolev's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I was already talking about it, so when it was a question of whether this ruling coalition would survive or not, I said it was the strongest coalition in the history of the Croatian state because it was made up on the quiet foundations, and now we have the fact that we have a lex shush. My colleague Miro Bulj and I were on the stand yesterday in Samobor, where the topic was referendumal, therefore, as a way of political combating political rivals where it was pointed out that the ruling majority in the referendum sees danger for themselves and for their ruling majority and that, therefore, all of their engagement, therefore, and all of their resources will be used to prevent referendum initiatives. One of these amendments that we have proposed, therefore, is, therefore, we want to actually, when the law is already focusing on the referendum initiatives and the control of their finances, why it is not so controlled by protureferendum initiatives, and in this case, and in future, the protourendum initiative is the Croatian Government. So who will control its activities, which by all means fought against the referendum initiative "The People decide to amend the electoral law". We know that the ruling and the media have been attached to this protureferendum initiative, however, no one controls them. So, only the referendum initiatives considered a threat to the ruling majority are controlled, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132722	I thank my colleague, Sladolev. We move on to the 23rd Amendment of Honored Representatives of Ines Strenja, please welcome fellow Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132723	Thank you. So, MOST will once again show today that it is a true real opposition and will try to show once again to the public that the HDZ itself will vote in its own strength on the Law on the financing of political activities and election campaigns and referendums. Therefore, the new full Law on the financing of political activities and election campaigns and referendums in the whole of this law does not contribute to the restriction of donation of political money, but rather, will lead to an increase in the total amount of political funding because it contains provisions that will potentially enable political corruption and the fraud of citizens. Badly regulates the funding of referendum campaigns that should not have been the subject of this law at all and therefore, we at MOST, as I said, are absolutely unacceptable. After all, the promoter did not accept any of what we proposed, we are now, in turn, listening to you reject all our amendments, but we will read them to you once again, and therefore we have addressed ourselves as MOST, in fact, to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system because he is injured. 159. The Rules of Procedure of HS. This article is prescribed that, on the basis of the rights and powers laid down by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and these Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, constitutional laws, laws, law, state budget, decisions, declarations, resolutions, statutes, recommendations and conclusions, and gives credible interpretations of certain provisions of the law. Likewise, Art. 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that before the law and other regulations of state authorities enter into force, they shall be published in the National Journal of the Republic of Croatia. The rules and bodies which have public authority before entry into force must be made available in accordance with the law. The law shall enter into force at the earliest of eight days from the date of its publication, unless otherwise specified for particular reasons. Laws and other regulations The state authorities that have public authority can't have re-action, all of which you violated by this law, I demand a vote. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132724	I thank my esteemed colleague, Srenja. I'd ask you nicely if you'd just watch your time. We move on to the 24th Amendment of Honored Representative Nikola Grumoja, please welcome your colleague, Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132725	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, here, this picture in HS speaks for itself. None of the MPs are there because you've gone by force, so, past the announcement, because this morning, we found out that the amendment statement is going to be this afternoon, so you've been going to get rid of these amendments that we've sent, so tomorrow you can pass this law, or lex shush, to provide yourself with the funds for the election campaign, you've raised from a million and a half to 4 million, you've never had enough money, we know that you and this campaign will be financed from black funds, but it's much easier, so when you can legally do 4 million, but only a million and a half, there'll be black funds, but if you pass this bill, it'll be much easier for you. Let's remember all your donations, let's remember the PPD loan, let's remember the Zdravko Mamić who has here, very probably donated an hour to the president of the Lika-Senjska HDZ who says that his family gave him a 60.000,00 kn watch, I think they rarely have such a family in the Republic, we'd be happy to have more of such families, but unfortunately, none of these tycoons came from Croatian privatisation, guys like Tedeski mentioned by fellow Miro Bulj who were good and with Prime Minister Milanovic, and now they're good with Prime Minister Plenkovic, and that's what all these entrepreneurs came from those old ones, I'd say, structure. In that sense, so you never had enough money, you never had enough money, and when you need to do something for Croatian citizens, you are very, very slow. I'm asking for a vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132726	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We move to the 25th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, in Article 1(4), is deleted. Please show the State Secretary, Mrs. Josepha Rimac, for amendments 25 to 36, since they are identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132727	I thank the Vice President, it is not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action by citizens. We therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law that regulates and finance other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132728	I thank the secretary of state. It's an obvious friend of Nicola Grmo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132729	Dear Secretary of State, if anyone here in the Croatian Parliament is in favour of transparency that is MOST, we have proposed a register of real owners of companies on several occasions to know who is behind a particular company that may finance a particular campaign, you have rejected it even though it requires you to do so by the European Directive. And when the European Directive was adopted, then you were just going to change something because you are always acting as Brussels listeners, but you put a delay on that deadline, and here at the referendum initiatives you impose the same rules, but you forget that every referendum initiative becomes ad hoc that they are citizens who are organised and that for them they have neither accounting nor all the services available to large parties, so you are now asking them for the same conditions as the political parties. Why? To stop every referendum, because for you it's just a dead referendum good referendum you've shown here, so we've been, you've been saying all along, the minister's been telling us you can get a look at these invalid signatures. That's where he told us from the pay phone. I say I'll come to the Ministry in the morning, come to the Ministry, you welcome us, you say we need to sign something like this, they call us, the secretary of state comes to the club, and what brings us the secretary of state, our signatures. So what I should be doing is checking that my signature is valid or not valid. This is how you brought down the referendum and took a referendum to the people and deleted the floor from the 400,000 people I call for now in these European elections to show you what they think about you and your policy and your way of relations with direct democracy, according to direct expression means citizens, it is the only and best way to know what people expect of us. But you care about the people, you only care about money. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132730	Thank you. I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. We're moving on to the 26th Amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132731	Thank you very much. That the trial funding of the referendum separates from this law from the financing of political activities, political parties are of course normal and but it is important by the same law to disable the referendums and by the same law to pummel themselves. This law means a double blow to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which, in the basic provisions of the first article, says that the government comes from the people and that the people have the right to decide on direct democracy and the choice of their representatives. This is Article 1. The Republic of Croatia shall, in the basic provisions of paragraph 2, Article 1 paragraph 3. When we look at what you've done from the referendums, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have asked according to the law for a referendum on the change of the electoral system, collected the signatures, delivered the signatures in time, acquired all the legal conditions to call a referendum and to check, when you checked those signatures, you say 40,000 invalid signatures. For days we've been looking here, even the vice president of the assembly has banned me from participating in this debate for the first time in history, only to ask for invalid signatures to be delivered to us to see what are the invalid signatures and what are the reasons for the invalid signatures. Minister Lovro Kuscevic, graver of the referendum, murderer of the referendum and every democratic initiative of direct democracy, responded that he would give it to us. He didn't give us, but he's still mocking the initiatives, I expected from Josepha Rimac, the Knin Queen to solve it, but she's decided to bring our signatures. An absolute blow to democracy, a referendum. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132732	I thank my dear colleague Bulj, I have not forbade you for two days, but you have been given a strict measure based on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We're moving on to the 27th Amendment of Honored Representative Robert Podolnjak, he's gone. 28th Amendment of the Honored Representative Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go, colleague Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132733	I thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, so the purpose of this amendment is to exclude from the legal text the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the fundamental law governing the problem of the referendum. I said something earlier, so I'd say it again because you didn't listen to me. You were on your cell phone. So I was going to say, or I said, it's not polite to throw away the jumbo posters that we know how much they cost, we know how much I don't know what the price on TV is commercial. So that promotion is not polite to throw away in a country where every fifth person lives at risk of poverty. That's, that's not the data that I invented, that's what I'm saying. That's the data from the attorney general's report. 27.9% of people, citizens, inhabitants of Croatia live at risk of poverty and social exclusion, most of these people are older people, so most of these people are older people. Now imagine this, imagine the person who lives on the salary of 3,000 kuna, when he looks at what the debate means in this law that we are discussing today in these amendments. Someone who from 3,000 kunas stretches from 1 to 30 a month and doesn't know how they'll survive, here's the people who work in the Parliament, have very low salaries, imagine one of those hundreds of thousands of pensioners who live even less than a thousand kunas or 500 kn, that I don't read you statistics that are numbers, that's a horror that are numbers, and we're talking about, that the parties are scattered with Okay, okay, I'm sorry, I'll keep going, I'm looking for a vote. [[Upadica Brkić: Kolega Runtić, please timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132734	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132735	Dear President, Vice-President, Chairman, the violation of Rules of Procedure 236 for this reason, I ask you, I have asked your predecessor Reiner for a request from Robert Dolnjak based on the article of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to hold a session, o. It wasn't done, although according to the Rules of Procedure it had to be done, but he didn't mean Pharaoh. And I have information from people that this isn't being transmitted by the YouTube Channel of the Parliament, so I'd ask you to check it out, too, because it's a boycott of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132736	I thank my esteemed colleague Buljo, you are already in charge of this inquiry of yours, and you already have an answer. And as for this transfer, you could have done it the other way, not by misusing the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm based on your article. I give a warning in 239. We move on to the 29th Amendment of Honored Representative Slaven Dobrovic, please welcome colleague Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132738	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. How do you control a society? So the first statement of society, the participation of society, so the people in direct, democratically through the referendums can make it difficult to make it practically impregnable, and we saw it being carried out, that a large number of votes were declared invalid, with no one practically seeing why and how it was obviously made out of quite unilaterally, and with obvious intention, that the referendum initiatives were not allowed. On the other hand, it can also be done through the media, and therefore more and more money is needed to create a beautiful picture and to have a superficial viewer, a superficial citizen, who, as a result, is increasingly involved in political life. We see this by the fact that there is an increasing response to and participation in the elections. It simply relies on the wrong, false image that is created in the media, of course through money and here by this law, with 4 million kunas, so it's over 2 times more than what we've had so far, so that such a fake so, picture, fake, because it doesn't match the truth, preserve. Because when it is summed up with this tendency to make the referendum as an expression of the political will of the citizens impossible, then it is quite clear, there is one control and a citizen who is practically not listening... What's going on with them? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132739	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. We're moving on to the 33rd Amendment of Honored colleague of the Grmoy injure of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132740	Dear Vice President, so, please, I am asking you to intervene in order for our citizens, who send me messages, to want to follow this debate on the YouTube channel of the Croatian Parliament, to intervene and to enable it. Until this is possible, I do not think I have the conditions to continue the debate, because we are not here to discuss between ourselves, but to allow Croatian citizens to hear and to see what is happening at this time in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132741	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grmo. So, you re-abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't even call for an article at that time. But as far as technical matters are concerned, you can solve it in another way, not by calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and after the request of my colleague Bulja, a colleague on my left, has already contacted the departments responsible in the Assembly and will provide for this situation, so that on the basis of an article. I give a warning in 239. Moving to Amendment No. 33. Since the colleagues of MP Ante Pranic are not present, also colleagues of MP Ivana Ninčević Lesandric and respected counterpart, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. God Petrov, we are moving on to the 33rd amendment, the respected representative of Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132743	Through this amendment, we have been looking for an article. Paragraph 4 in order to delete the same paragraph, we believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. What's interesting, about this law, is the urgency, the urgency, the speed, because it's important to bring the lex code, before the elections are actually discussed. It is important that through a false glow another 4 million kuna is spent on a promotional campaign, as counterpart Maras said, HDZ has ruled for 21 years, the SDP has been with its coalition partners for 8-9 years. So whether it is enough for Croatian citizens to look left, right, behind and see what has been left for the citizens and what Croatia looks like, but it is not enough for you even 1.5 million kuna, in fact for the promotion, for the EU elections, and therefore it is important that the law be voted before the EU elections are called. It didn't matter to you, actually, that across the back of the citizens you say there's a pension reform going on and that you actually need to work longer. That citizens might even work longer and probably a lot longer, because now they're using that four-hour pension option. They work longer because they don't have decent pensions. Also, citizens have been waiting for an energy reconstruction tender since 2014, but every quarter is delayed. Why aren't you up-to-date, actually, when it comes to the needs of Croatian citizens, and we live and we have a government that actually has a fall problem. She has a fall problem because she's not responding to the real needs of the citizens, who, what, why and when, but only to those of their own. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132744	Thank you, dear colleague Chikotic. We are moving on to the 34th Amendment of Honored Representative Mark Sladeyev. Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, with the violation of therefore and the restriction of referendum initiatives by the ruling ones, we have a new anti-democracy, which is to deny HS transmission. So people send messages, so I hope people recognize who in Croatia wants democracy and who doesn't. This referendum initiative that wants to end democracy is another way of ruling this government, but I will talk again about the messages that this ruling majority is sending, which is, you have no right to influence politics. So we are the political elite that governs you, so we are the ones who will pass the laws, and you are here, to nod your head and in some way just passively participate in the political process. I'd just like to say, the experiences of other countries as far as the referendum initiatives are concerned. So the most famous example is Switzerland. None of us have an illusion in HS here that we Switzerland, as regards the referendum initiatives, we have the prime minister's mantra that they won't allow a referendum on the introduction of the euro, although it is one of the key things and in some way a loss of sovereignty, so they won't be able to decide either, will not be able to decide on the Electoral Law, therefore, a totally passive society that actually wants That we're just nodding. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132746	Thank you, dear colleague of Sladolev. Dear colleague Bulj and esteemed colleague Grmoy, the competent departments of the assembly report that the transfer is going without a hitch, so, here, you can check again and let me know if it doesn't work. We move on to the 35th Amendment, the 36th Amendment, I apologize, Your Honor, or the 35th, and I apologize, Your Honor, to the Honorable Representative of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132747	Thank you. So we're looking in Art. St. 4 to be deleted because we believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. What has been repeated several times, which is that the referendum is the highest level of democracy, the implementation of a referendum in every country, and unfortunately, we are witnessing the asphyxiation of such initiatives and finding any way to stifle such initiatives. Unfortunately, what you can't see is that this makes you even more excited about the struggle of those who feel they have the right to fight for certain rights that are thus denied, as you will see in which momentum and how a referendum will be carried out that tries to draw attention to the fact that pension reform has been missed in this way, that the working life span is extended to 67 years, regardless of the life span, the average life span of citizens in Croatia is much lower than those in the EU. You haven't made us live the way we live in the real democracys of the EU, we don't live in the quality of life as we live in the EU, and now you're trying to use them to work through 67. Imagine what it's like to work for those who do heavy physical work, who may have gone into the world of work later, because you're always going back to what those who started working early, that by 60 they'll have 40 years of work, but there are those who worked on black, because they couldn't find a job in this country, those who worked in different ways and by contracts, so you just make them work and that they're practically from work. implemented directly to our cemetery [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I demand a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Dear colleagues of Srenja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132748	We're moving on to the 36th Amendment. Dear colleague Nikola Grumoje, here's your colleague, Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132749	Thank you, Vice President. So, here, you said that everything works, people tell me that it doesn't work through the Youtube channel HS, but that's, anyway, it doesn't matter, you want as few people to see what you're doing, but we'll make sure that as many people as possible find out what you're trying to do here, and that's to get the money because you're the only money that drives you and you're only interested in money. You act, not as a political party that has participated in the creation of a Croatian state and which should take care of Croatian citizens, but rather act as one customer group that is full of bad things, full of links to affairs, with crime, with corruption, we witness the last days of what is happening, simply, you see only prey and money and that is what worries the most. It worries that even your party colleagues are willing to roll in the mud, just to fight for some of your interests, so nothing is sacred to you. How will you be holy Croatian citizens when you are not holy to those with whom you share benches, who sit with you and who you stab in the back, if it is politically opportunized at that time. This shows your attitude towards the people and democracy towards the citizens, it is clear what your relationship to the referendum is, but clearly and what your relationship to freedoms is, the free political option that is fighting for freedom of speech, freedom of opinion of freedom of expression, we are consistent in it, we have come forward regardless of who is being threatened by these freedoms, we will fight for Croatian citizens and we will fight for that freedom as much as you do not appreciate it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132750	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grmo. We move to the 37th Amendment of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt Previously on AMC's The Walking [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 9 stations... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 8 please read the Secretary of State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Joseph Rimac for amendments from 37-48, since the same content is every amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132751	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The above-mentioned amendments from 37-48 are not accepted for the reason that the referendum is the form of political action of citizens. We therefore consider, as appropriate, that the financing of the referendum should be governed by the same law, which regulates the financing of other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132752	I thank the secretary of state. On behalf of the Bridge Club, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132753	Thank you very much. The referendum and political activities, political parties are absolutely incompatible. However, you have come from this High House, under the orders of Andrej Plenkovic, Seks was also the executive president of the Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic and the vice president and others, to change the rules of procedure and to reduce the rights and freedom of speech of parliamentary deputies. And you have led to this situation, that the work of the Croatian Parliament is boycotted and that it turns out to the people of P.R.ovski that the diameter is above the Parliament. Freedom of speech, after the referendum of freedom of speech. You're sending the police, the police, the press, to the mayor's orders, so it wasn't during the wild west. Journalists, police journalists, threatening to pressure them not to write the truth or to write the truth, it's freedom of speech, you have no right to forbid it, you steal people, you introduce dictatorship. What happens in Serbia, as a pressure, see HRT, whether HRT is now transferring the Parliament or only when the interest is on the 4th programme of the ruling party. You destroyed the referendum and stole it. Four hundred thousand signatures you stepped on. Four hundred thousand citizens you spit in the face, they would not do that to anyone, to the enemy, not to the Croatian people. You're violating the Constitution you swear to, you're not interested in the will of the majority. So what are you afraid of? So we have the Bridge Act on Elections, amendments to the electoral law, which is similar to a referendum initiative, so give it already... This is where we discuss it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have no power to face the people, and the people will decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132754	Thank you, dear fellow Bull, for asking for a vote, I presume? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Bull: Looking for a vote.]] We're moving on to the 38th Amendment of Honorable Representative Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132755	I expected yesterday, here, to be about the same amendment, that the mayor, the former mayor of Knina from my Dalmatian burn from the winning city of victory, would have the strength and courage to withdraw this unlawfully. The happiest one of my days, I said yesterday, was when we came and saw Knin, it was a symbol of freedom, from the direction of Dinara from... The happiest day of my life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You were the mayor, you were invited, your loyal fans to Queen Knin. About you, the letters were sung, the books were written, you were sang as legend, so don't embarrass that stone, that sacrifice, in this way, to abolish the right of direct decision of the people, because of that every drop of blood that has been shed, to come and free Knin. Many victims remained, many nights in the winter slept in difficult conditions, to gain freedom, to gain democracy, to respect the Constitution, written by the founding father Shakespeare, and now wants to degrade him, to humiliate him. No one's above the Constitution. No one on this earth. Only outside of the Constitution, which is who God believes, only for him, but you do not believe in the Constitution or the Praised Jesus, to whom your Minister Lovro Kuščević is called, he does not believe it, because he humiliates the people, he humiliates the poor, he humiliates, every man, he spit in his face, he spit in the face of 400 thousand people who gave his signatures, asked for the possibility of changing the electoral law. He imposed it on you, he is the minister of Istanbul, he will work for everyone, whether for Milan Brkic while he was Karamarko or Andrej Plenkovic, he has nothing to do with any principle, religious or human, because what he did to the people is anti-national. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132756	I thank my colleague Bulj, I ask you once again, to watch our time. We are moving on to the 39th Amendment of Honored Representative Robert Podlonjak, not present. 40th Amendment of Honored Representative Hrvojo Runtic, please welcome colleague Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is to exclude from the legal text the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that part of the law should be defined by law governing the problem of the referendum. Now that I've noticed about this bill and I believe that others have noticed, they've drawn attention to the fact that when this amount is to be raised for the parties, means to finance the campaign, then it's done very quickly. So this text is written, sent to the procedure, yesterday we discussed, today, we have a statement on amendments, tomorrow such a law should be passed, and then a few days later it should come into effect and the parties would have 2.5 million kuna more to promote. Now what I can think of when I'm talking about it is that when I say we have to solve the issue of blocked in Croatia for more than 10 years then it's not exactly that kind of modus operandi then it's been spreading here for more than 10 years. Here we have now in the announcement of the new Executive Act, which Minister Bosnjakovic said was a completely new thing, that it would, and it is a paraphrase of the old which means that nothing that has yet to be abolished, which has been so far, but only a little bit has changed articles and items. Now imagine if this were to solve other issues in Croatia, it means that the problem is located, the solution is quickly written, sent to the parliamentary procedure, that we vote and that the problem is solved I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132758	We are moving on to the 41st amendment of the respected colleague Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132759	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, Croatia disappears, literally disappears, and there are now the latest data that is even less than 4 million inhabitants and that is the reason, that is the consequence of two reasons. One is a weak birth, and the other is the departure of young people. And what the government's reaction is, is there a policy that will resist it, we can't see it. However, there is a policy here, and we are dealing specifically with it now, that in a short time, three times or less will raise the amount of money that can be spent on promotions, political promotions. I am sure that such a practice, such a topic, such a choice of priorities that comes from the government actually only makes worse, only worse, people are not born, so those young people who could have children of them are getting less and less to it, and also those who have to face their children going beyond, across the border, carrying everything they've acquired, carrying all the knowledge, all the enthusiasm, all the will to live, for growth, for better tomorrow, they carry it to someone else. And we are calmly looking even at the strategic documents simply recording these tendencies as some kind of givenness, as if there will be no policy left to resist it, I can't believe that it is and that it is happening and I can't believe that here we are in an urgent way, in violation of all the manners of good conduct in parliament. I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you, dear colleague Dobrović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132760	We move on to the 45th Amendment since there is no representative for the Amendments 42, 43, 44, honourable representative Mrs Sonja Cikotic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132761	Thank you, this amendment actually refers to Article 2 of point 5, erasing the 8th indent, as so far as indent 9 becomes indent 8. The proposer considers that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. What is interesting during this process is the speed and ease with which this law actually passes all the administrative barriers, before which ease this law comes to the assembly, comes to reading and just when those who rule need money. If we were to think about and think about the needs of Croatian citizens in this way, it would certainly not have left Croatia to move 110.000 citizens to Germany, it would certainly not have been 4,000 children born in Germany, not Croatia. Also, although Croatia has suffered a demographic breakdown that will affect the sustainability of the health and pension pillar, it is doing nothing. This government has not adopted a strategy on demographic revitalisation in the past 2 years, but lex shushka has been on our moves, it has been on our tables overnight to sell even more fake glow, so that in fact certain political structures can be courted to Croatian citizens and by who knows which way to buy some voters, those who stayed here while you opened the door wide to the non-insidents and in fact you are obediently waiting for the EU to follow the directive that you will apply, and one of them is, although you have recognised that you have to provide the fathers with 10 days' leave, you will not implement the directive until it is voted in the EU Parliament. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132762	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 46th Amendment of Honored Representative Mark Sladolev. Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132763	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so in psychological terminology there are different phobias, one phobia is claustrophobia, a phobia of closed space, another is xenophobia fear of strangers, but this government will enter the history of psychological profession, like the government that invented a new term, which is fear of its own people. So all the laws in recent times, as regards the referendum and the whole process of counting votes and referendum initiatives, reflected those phobias, the fear of their own people. But I must say that this phobia has even reason to exist, so this government fears its own people because it thinks that the referendum initiatives will in some way end those bad decisions. So, yesterday in Samobor, there were people who were on duty in the rain at those booths, where you were explaining to people who were coming to sign what it was about, it was very clear things that would improve the Croatian electoral system, which is 3 preferential votes, electronic voting, reduction of parliamentary, therefore, MPs, so all of these are rational reasons why the electoral law should be changed and the ruling majority is before the referendum initiative itself, but in fact, what the initiative started was negatively expressed by it because it knew that it was not going to contribute to them and their, therefore, the ruling majority. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132764	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. We move on to the 47th Amendment of Honored Representatives of Ines Strenja, please welcome fellow Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we're looking for this amendment to the article. 2nd wheel. 5. Delete the 8th indent and so far the 9th indent becomes the 8th indent. We therefore believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. Therefore, in the proposed law, we believe that the problem of funding referendum activities is not high-quality because it regulates only citizens' initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run an anti-referendum campaign, nor regulates the rights and obligations or restrictions of government and HS state bodies in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-consultation, will be introduced by the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives and confirmed by our famous Minister Lovro Kuščević. Thus, pro-tourendum initiatives should also be institutionalised. Register, report to your representative, etc. According to the logic of things, such anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign, so it is only justified to regulate the funding of referendum and pro-tureendum initiatives at the same time in one law. In each referendum campaign, two sides are opposed. Very often, the government is opposed to a referendum initiative, especially if it is a request for a referendum to repeal a law or part of a law. However, the proposed law regulates only the financing of the pro-tourendum initiative, this is an unequivocal imbalance because the initiative seeking a referendum could provide significant means for promotion, and the law does not prescribe the financing of an anti-referendum campaign. It is indisputable that the Government must not spend budgets during the referendum campaign I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132766	...respected colleagues of Ines Strenja. We're moving on to the 48th Amendment of Honored Representative Nikola Grumoja, please welcome your colleague, Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132767	Dear Vice President, we see that anxiety is growing, we didn't have any representatives from the HDZ ranks here, but the president of the club has arrived, I welcome him, they probably felt it wouldn't go as easily as they intended, so they thought we'd probably give up, but the reinforcements are coming, so it will be, it'll be, it'll take, if you finally and can pass this bill before the president calls the elections, at least we'll give you a little bit of trouble, as you torture the Croatian people. So, as you steal from the Croatian people, as you mean, year after year, day after day, every new affair makes young people from the Republic of Croatia. And for what it's worth, here's what I like to be here, so make you sit there, that our vice president has to sit here too, and I'm only sorry about these wonderful people from HS who have to sit there for a little salary, but here's your sacrifice for a better RH. So we're not going to give up, we're going to push this thing to the end because your only intention is to get as much money to HDZ as possible for these elections, and when it comes to Croatian citizens, you can't pass the executive law for years, you don't want to implement public administration reform, you don't want to eliminate hundreds of municipalities by the Republic of Croatia, the number of politicians or HS, but you don't want to cut at any of the local levels, but when it comes to your money, about the Swiss, as said colleague Bulj, then you're ready to sit here. I want you to see the entire Croatian people how ready you are to torture only to get more money. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132768	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. I'm a lot of tolerance when I chair the sessions. I'm asking you nicely to plead on the amendment and talk about it without talking about other topics, so I'm warning you about the future. We move to the 49th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please show the State Secretary for Amendments 49 to 60, since amendments are identical content, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132769	Thank you, Vice President HS. It is clear that amendments 49 to 60 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we believe it is appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132770	Thank you. Affidavit, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132771	So, it is quite clear that, apart from being hasty with this law to secure the funds to HDZ for which you, the secretary of state, are ready here, I would like the one who proposed the law that he must sit there, I am sorry that you must, leaving one woman here alone to sit this whole time, so I think it is totally unacceptable and it would be nice for Mr Kušević, who is the author of this law or maybe Andrej Plenkovic as president of HDZ, to whom this law will provide considerable financial resources, come here and sit here for a few hours because we have no intention of torturing you because you have neither written this law nor are responsible for it, but here they have sent you here and I want all Croatian citizens to know how much the victim of HDZ is willing to bear when they mean their money in question, and for Croatian citizens to do absolutely nothing. I'll remember here, or I'll remind you all about the adoption of the Implementing Law, then we've sent 10 amendments, first we've been praised by colleagues from HDZ and colleagues from the SDP so that suddenly they can't say it, it's not going to, it's a hit on public notebooks, on lawyers, so when the interests of those stakeholders behind these parties are at stake, then they're not ready to make any sacrifices, they're not ready to be exposed, and when the money they're meant to do is then they're ready to put a plea here, we could go tomorrow and we could go to the amendments in the morning or some other day next week, then probably not every amendment here would have explained, but we should not bring it here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132772	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We're moving on to the 50th Amendment of the Honorable Representative Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132773	Thank you very much and this amendment when we talk about referendum activities is essentially like this whole law is counter-constitutional because mixing political activities, political parties and the referendums of the citizens' initiative in other countries instead of simply doing it to rewrite what Switzerland is trying to do here to reach 2 million kunas in the campaign. Although the HDZ colleagues of Grmoja should not be some kind of money they have with everything I just listed the PPD, who not all, Tedeschko and everyone who were with them on the book Martine Dalić, but here we have one easy, easy means of teleoperators in Croatia have the highest profit, HT has a 40% profit, 42% in all of Europe, 20% in countries where they come from, not a tribune building permits, but that is exactly what the political elites are doing, because I asked Andrej Plenkovic here why teleopers don't behave the way they behave in the Republic. Of course I didn't get an answer because it's being addressed by the Misetic Dynasty and of course it's this huge, huge potential that they have is not somehow money away because of the fact that teleoperators are one great advertisers who can have a lot of influence in the media space and in this way they just have to legalize some kind of framework that perception that it's spent 4 million. They will spend money only here in Split-Dalmatia County as much as promotions ić they have increased since we emerged as another political option in Split-Dalmatia County, they have increased tenfold the means of information, and I will do so in the next. It means they would affect the electoral body, for the PR, so they shouldn't be afraid. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132774	I thank my colleague Bulj, I repeat again that we are saying that you are pleading on a concrete amendment without talking about a subject that is not subject to These amendments. [[Intruder: The shushka tells you.]] We're moving on to the 51st Amendment of Honored colleague Robert Dolnjak, not present. We are moving on to the 52nd Amendment of Honored colleague Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go, colleague Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132775	I thank Mr. Vice President, so regarding this law, something that came to my mind while I was thinking about it is that actually a modus operand related to this law is something that might be an example of how to solve some other questions. So the questions of some others may be a group that is in major problems in Croatia, for example. I mean blocked, I mean entrepreneurs, and I mean a group that's actually very rarely mentioned in public, which is homeless. So we locate the problem, put all our strengths into writing some legal solution for, for that problem, refer to the assembly for discussion and, let's say, an urgent procedure to vote and let the law apply. Now imagine that in this way we are referring to the issue of, let's say, blocked which is difficult, so for more than 10 years, it seems to me or let's say that we tighten all our strengths in that way to arrange that we no longer have this force of young people who are finishing colleges and who would like to start some business but when you talk to them, they say I don't think I'm going to start a company in Croatia, I'm going to do it in Estonia or Ireland, and I'm going to do business and pay less taxes there, etc. Imagine young people who do not want to start companies in Croatia, do not want to do business at all. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132776	I thank my colleague Runtic. I'll read you the amendment. In Article 2(5), the words ‘or organisational committee’ shall be deleted and after the words ‘promising’ shall be inserted and the words ‘or ‘in a special account for the financing of the referendum activity’ shall be deleted. I'm just reminding you of the amendment. We are moving on to the 53rd amendment of a respected colleague, Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132777	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, so this amendment wants to correct this distorted view of the referendum as a political activity because we would like to stress that the referendum is one, one, one, an institute politically where citizens participate and it is desirable for every democratically civilised society to include citizens and practically enjoy their demonstration to point out in their own voice to certain problems, the case of Switzerland which has a large number of referendums and the normal thing would be to ensure that the referendum, which today in this digital era would not be any problem, therefore, e-Citizens could as a tool digital could be expanded without problems, strengthen so there is no problem for small money to come up with information about what citizens think about certain issues. Of course, that's in case we care about that opinion. If we stick to people's attitudes, their opinions. However, we have shown here in Croatia that this is not true, that 400 thousand signatures that have been collected in very difficult conditions are practically thrown away in every sense and then, of course, should not be surprised to raise the amounts for promotion politically so that these political figures show up as beautiful as possible. Of course, it has nothing to do with the truth, It's pure propaganda. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132778	Dear colleague Dobrovic. We move on to the 55th amendment, since there are no colleagues of Ante Pranic, the respected representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132779	In the case of a Member State of 5, but not 9th, the words ‘organising committee’ shall be deleted, and after the word ‘promising’ the point shall be deleted and the words ‘in particular account for the financing of the referendum activity’ shall be deleted. The applicant’s argument is that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. I don't mind even certain things, is it, that you want to change in a post-traumatic fashion, but I also have that against when you want to change these things, you change them for your own good. So, for two years now, there's been a series of laws or legal initiatives relating to entrepreneurship, an economy waiting for order, just to come to the board, and not to talk about a session, so it's probably not going to come in this term, and I don't think it's just wrong, but I think you'd feel like you're in the skin of an entrepreneur who created something out of zero, who works 24 hours a day, and who's going to make that change that doesn't matter to you, and how it means to facilitate procedures or a series of obstacles that expect him to do everyday business, when he sees that you need to change something in 5 minutes, and he's waiting years for a change that he can literally in his first year of business, save his business.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132780	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the 57th amendment, since there are no colleagues of HS Vice-President Mr Petrova, the respected representative Sonja Cikotic, please welcome fellow counterpart Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132781	Thank you. This amendment actually refers to several items that we ask to be deleted, and we want to delete them because there is a special law that needs to be regulated, the subject itself means a referendum. We propose to delete in this law the entire chapter that needs to be laid down on the referendum law. This referendum law has been announced by a major reformer, the law says it will be at the public hearing soon, so we do not see the need for these two laws to actually provide for certain regulations that should actually regulate one of those same topics. I would also like to ask the secretary of state how the Agency Act that was, and the ministry planned in its 2018 legislative plan, did not actually settle the issue of the legal area of action and agencies with public powers, and as far as the elections are concerned, when it comes to the financing of a political campaign, when it comes to political promotion, then the speed and speed of light of the same approach. I also want to point out, as in this light, I'd like to say that he wants to get rid of the problem, so basic schools, which you all probably know. Today in the Republic of Croatia you have 1009 schools, district schools of which 245, of which you would not believe, are heating up on solid fuels. Today, when actually the minister, the HNS minister who has 1.5% support, destroys Croatian education, she introduces the schools of tobacco in the 21st century, and the infrastructure is in the 19th century. Of course, in the Ministry of Administration's portfolio, there are also a series of laws that actually local and regional self-government should also be financed, and one of the projects is certainly intended for 20 million kuna, which is decentralisation In fact, fiscal assets by [[Intruder: Thank you.]] local self-government units. [[Intruder: Thank you esteemed colleagues.]] Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132782	We are moving on to the 58th Amendment of Honored Representative Mark Sladeyev. Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132783	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, with this amendment, we actually want to warn the Croatian public, we want to reroute the actual course, so we want to put this law in the focus of the Croatian public. It is amazing that this law is passed so quickly, I would like certain Croatian laws concerning Croatian citizens to be adopted in such a procedure, so that they will act immediately. So this is about a law that gives 4 million kunas to a particular political party and maybe with these huge money, these huge money that's been leaked through different hands, 4 million kunas doesn't seem much. However, 4 million kuna is a message, a message to Croatian citizens, that we will pass all laws, so all laws concerning our interest, in a very fast procedure and that it will be.../incomprehensible/... therefore passed, and as far as Croatian citizens are concerned, and as far as laws that would improve the lives of Croatian citizens are concerned, it is in the drawer. Just to remind you, when we were already talking about the financing of political parties, let me remind you, therefore, that two years ago, when we were part of the government, hands and feet fought for an amendment that abolished 15 million kuna for political parties, these 15 million kuna also referred to the Most party among other things and awarded Croatian science. I believe that out of these 15 million kunas, a new value has been created, and that these 4 million kunas will only create value for one political party, which is you, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132784	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. We move on to the 59th Amendment, the Honored Representatives of Ines Strenja, please welcome fellow Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132785	Thank you. So, we're with this amendment in Art. Point two. The 5th indent of the 9th is requested to delete the word "or organisational committee" and after the word "promising" the point is deleted and the words "or in a special account for the financing of referendum activities" are deleted. What exactly is this about? In fact, it is that we believe that 2.5 million kunas more than HDZ must not provide themselves with this legislative proposal to prove once again in the next euro parliamentary elections that it is the best, smartest and most honest party in the Republic of Croatia. And what I've actually been preparing now to report to this amendment, that's what's actually devastating in relation to all this money we're talking about, is also to talk about a young boy who, you can imagine, his mother even in HDZ today announced that a boy who operated on brain tumor two years ago is now waiting for a magnetic resonance by the 12th month of 2020. It is, I think, a member of the HDZ, not only the voter, so that is what is devastating, we have money in this Republic, but it is not well deployed and the saddest thing is that in the end it is breaking down on those most needed, and political elites still think that only they have the right, the right to allocate that money to themselves. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132786	I'd like to thank my colleagues. We're moving on to the 60th Amendment of Honored colleague Nikola Grumoje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132787	Thank you, Vice President. It is very important to point out that the referendum initiatives are created by ad hoc, that they cannot and cannot apply the same rules as the political parties. Political parties have accounting at their disposal, political parties have, therefore, services at their disposal, political parties here at HS have people in clubs working for these political parties, and now the referendum initiatives created by ad hoc parties are going to impose the same level, so, jobs, as political parties do, which is absolutely unacceptable and another blow to direct democracy. Also, what we have been saying since the beginning and what is left in this amendment is that the funding of the referendum should be regulated within the special law, the referendum law where everything is related to this issue, but no, it was here to mix pears and apples, the financing of political parties and promotions and the financing of the referendum, and the main objective of which is that you are in such a hurry with this law is just your funding and increasing your financial resources, and it is unfortunate that the secretary of state has been left here, that counterpart Bačić has escaped, that there is no one here and that no one wants to sit here, meaning, and at least that you intend to make you at least sit there and defend, and not that the Secretary of State refuses our amendments, that there is no one who represents the foreign majority that rejects these amendments. We, with such an approach to these specific amendments that we are seeking, means, concrete changes within these laws, we cannot agree at all, it is unacceptable to us, it is unacceptable to us to have such a relationship with the referendum initiatives, but also to finance political promotion. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132788	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We move to the 61st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I call on the Secretary of State to show us about the amendments 61 to 72, since they are identical content.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132789	Thank you, Vice President HS. We are looking at amendments 61 to 72, the amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing and financing other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132790	I thank the secretary of state. Representative of the Proposer, dear colleague of Grumo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132791	So, we have clearly indicated here that it is not possible for the referendum of citizens or for a specific referendum initiative where citizens are at speed, spontaneously, here, now that you go with the referendum law and try to completely disable the example of Arsena Bauk and the SDP referendum where you are going to ask citizens to sign in the offices of the state administration or, etc., I don't know what you're going to propose, but surely it won't go in favour of the referendum initiatives, so now the citizens are going to respond to it, and for those people who are going to respond to some move by the authorities are looking for the same level, meaning, financial reports, anything else, as well as for political parties that are organized organisations, they have accounting, they have services, so it's something that I can't possibly understand, or I can't understand, because I know what your intention is your intention, your intention is to disable the referendum citizens. And then, to make things better and even inside that law, it means to increase the amount for political parties from 1.5 million to 4 million kuna. I don't know what SDP suggested, probably the same thing, actually this government is carrying out what the SDP announced and what it was afraid to implement. Milanovic did not adopt the Istanbul Convention, the HDZ government and partners adopted the Istanbul Convention. Milanovic means he allowed a referendum on marriage, this government blocked, or 400,000 signatures with citizens' signatures deleted the floor, so this government is changing the law on referendum and funding as requested and intended by the SDP, so you'll do it all. And that's a fact, and you can't get away from it, and somebody good said to your colleagues, there's no need with the SDP when HDZ handles what the SDP announces. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132792	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We're moving on to the 62nd Amendment of the Honorable Representative Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132793	So this article, of course, by this amendment, I would like to say that it is impossible for a referendum to be financial reports, finance, funding a referendum and everything to be like political parties. These are citizens' initiatives that need to relieve these pressures, the influence of politics on catastrophic decisions that have essentially driven our young people into third countries. The referendum needs to be strengthened, direct democracy needs to be strengthened, it should be possible from local regionals to state decisions that the people have a more direct democracy, that in parliament we choose through the electoral law people who get preferential votes, and not that we have today President-in-Office of the Parliament who got the votes, I don't know, something like me in his village which is very few villages in the town of Sinj, and he's the chairman of the Parliament and he draws that legitimacy, and if he wasn't on that list to HDZ and he wasn't listening to the president of the party, he might not be the president of the home council there, I don't know where the President of the Parliament stands. That the demeaning role of President-in-Office of the Parliament, but the fact that this is a representative body, the fact that this is a people's choice by choice, needs to be done, and you're holding back this way, especially on this referendum. So, the referendum should be made possible for citizens, to allow signatures to be collected, like we politicians when we gather for our own needs when we need to collect a sufficient number of signatures is not limited, where we will collect, whether the local leader is a goodwill or that he agrees with that referendum. So we have to do everything we can to get the people out and decide some things, even if I don't agree with them, but the people decide they want to. From environmentals, energy, world view and any other questions. The people need to be returned to their will. in direct democracy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132794	Dear colleague Miri Bulju. Since there are no colleagues, we are moving on to the 64th Amendment of the Honored Representative Hrvojo Runtic. Here you go, fellow Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132795	I thank the vice president of HS. So this amendment says that in art. 2 points. 8, after the word ‘promising’, the words ‘and the organisational committee on the financing of the referendum activity’ shall be deleted. Now I'll explain it. So I believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. However, as the essence of this law is to raise the amount to finance political campaigns for 2.5 million kuna, I believe that in a country where nearly a third of the population lives on the edge of poverty, other issues, which may be a burning issue for the country, should also be considered. Let's just say that in this country there are a considerable number of people who can't afford a vacation at all. They combine end-to-end, hard to finance and schooling their children and hardly put bread on the table, and this annual vacation I mentioned can only be seen when HRT during summer has those specialized emissions from the coast, and then they can enjoy pictures of various fish foods and similar, swimming in our sea, etc. And I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132796	I thank my colleague Runtic. We are moving on to the 65th Amendment of Honored Representative Slaven Dobrovic, please welcome colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132797	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. So, this amendment has touched on the questions of the referendum, that is to say, we are trying to prevent this upside-down view and access to the referendum as a means of directly expressing the will of the people, so what in the country that looks at its progress, to its prosperity with good intentions and concrete steps, then the referendum would have to be made easier, that is what we want and what is normal, and here the referendum is making it more difficult to level with the classical political work of political parties, which is clear that they should implement all those measures and respect all the rules concerning funding. So here, on the one hand, this law chokes on direct democracy, so, by making it harder for the referendum and all the work on the organisation of the referendum, and on the other hand, the amount of money that the parties may spend on promotion. At the promotion or the PR, which, of course, makes an impression on citizens, a desirable, good impression with the aim of obtaining a sufficient number of votes. And of course money here is a means of power through the media, the power to practically achieve the goal, retaining that power, so within this, a political apparatus. Therefore, I request a statement under this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132798	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. We are moving on to the 67th amendment, as the colleagues of Pranic are gone, respected counterpart Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132799	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state. In Article 2, point 8, after the wording of the promiscation, the words and the organisational committee on the financing of the reference activity shall be deleted, which shall explain in a way that it considers that the legal text should exclude the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the Law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. Let me go back to what I talked about earlier, and that is how often and constantly in the Parliament I talk about entrepreneurs and the problems they face, and a series of legislative initiatives proposed precisely to improve their operating conditions that have been waiting here for two and a half years to come to order, some of them to the Committees, and those who have passed the Committees will not see this session's mandate, and when it comes to changing something that is in some greater interest, then it can happen overnight. I see the secretary of state in her movie is on her cell phone, so maybe I should read this amendment again. Well, I can start over. It's no problem. Therefore, in Article 2, point 8, following the wording of the promiscation, a point is put in place and words are deleted, and the Organisational Committee on the Financing of Reference Activity, the explanation of the applicant is that the proposal considers that the legal text should exclude the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the Law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132800	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 69th Amendment, as the respected vice president, God Petrov, is gone, the respected representative Sonja Cikotic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132801	Dearlywed, this amendment amends Article 2, point 8, namely, through this article it is actually required that the referendum initiatives that can start ad hoc and in further, later articles are actually sought and opened a special account, even 6 months earlier, mean actually before, when a referendum initiative that is usually a national establishment, we find it unacceptable that these people's initiatives happen in response to some decisions of the rulings. What we cannot expect from the referendum initiatives, which is that they have a good financial, administrative, legal and any other organisation that is suitable for political action, because political action is actually an organised form of association with the clear creation of public policies, so that certain policies actually improve citizens' living standards. The referendum initiatives are mostly individual, they actually refer to the current situation, and actually the referendum initiatives come from a people with no organisational, financial, legal and administrative capacity, or that capacity, in order to be able to. That is why we have proposed to delete this item in Article 2, which we consider appropriate to be an integral part of the referendum law, given that the referendum law and the preparation of the new institute, and this is a protourendum initiative, we believe that... the referendum initiative, and hence the pro-tourendum initiative should be in the referendum law, so that citizens who actually want to join in a particular action and can implement it can find all the normative regulations in one place to respond to the challenge they face as a society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote on this amendment. And thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132802	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the 70th Amendment of Honored Representative Mark Sladeyev. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State. We want, therefore, no one here feels that we should pass a special referendum law, this referendum law that we currently have is bad, but the direction in which you are going is bad, so this amendment that we are now talking about is predicting to be equal, and political parties, and the referendum initiatives, and we know that the referendum initiatives are citizens' initiatives that have neither financial resources nor administrative means to compare together, therefore, in some way with political parties. Just compare how many parties as HDZ have their employees, and how many specific civil referendum initiatives are available, therefore, to people, these are all people who do their jobs, who use their spare time, and now, in some ways, they are equalized with this Law. So, we think it's unfair, that it's not a fair fight, no matter what kind of referendum initiative it was coming from, we think that the referendum initiatives should therefore be nurtured by the Croatian authorities because it is a democracy decoration, not the problem of democracy as you therefore consider them. And this provision of six months ago, that six months ago, so we can theoretically expect this government to, I don't know, I'm going to say hypothetically now, that in a month, the Croatian government's initiative to reunite with the former Yugoslavia, and what should we do? It takes six months, so, for this one, to get rid of it administratively. So I repeat again, so we're looking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132804	Thank you, dear colleague of Sladolev. We move on to the 71st Amendment of Honored Representatives of Ines Strenja. Here you go, fellow Sagittarius.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132805	Thank you. As I have said before, it is not our intention to obstruct this law, but to warn that there is no point in spending taxpayers' money in this way and to further pump up in the campaign that HDZ will have for European elections, the European Parliament, because they will win anyway, it will have the highest number of mandates because they are the best, the smartest and the most beautiful and the money actually should not be needed to achieve it. Therefore, this law is contrary to both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and therefore to this amendment 6 which in Article 6. Point two. 8th after the word "promising" is placed on the point and the words "this Organisational Committee on the Financing of Reference Activity" are deleted, because we believe that the legal text should exclude the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum, and that is why we ourselves have asked the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion. We therefore believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. In addition to this, the proposer considers that the proposed law does not address the problem of funding referendum activities as it regulates only citizens' initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign, nor regulates the rights and obligations and restrictions of state bodies, government and HS in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be found in e-consultation, will be introduced into the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives, and this is confirmed by Mr Lovro Kuščević, so the protureferendum initiatives they had to institutionalise i.e. Register [[Intruder: Thank you...]] I demand a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder:...respected colleagues...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132806	... Shots fired. We're moving on to the 72nd Amendment of Honored Representative Nikola Grmoy, please welcome colleague Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132807	Thank you, Vice President. So it's clear what's going on here, to disable it, means, at all, the referendum initiatives in its creation, to make their jobs difficult, to impose a strong administration, accounting and everything else, and anyway, in the Republic of Croatia, we have a situation that's almost impossible to collect signatures. When did we get the signatures for some kind of referendum initiative? When they did this, the Syndicates that have branches in every school, in every city, anywhere, or when there was a referendum on marriage, when HDZ was in opposition, when the church stood behind the initiative and then the signatures were collected. So, in the Republic of Croatia, we already have such conditions today that it is almost impossible to collect signatures and when they are gathered, as has now been the case with the change of electoral legislation, then Lovro Kuščević, our state secretary who does not give us any insight into the invalid signatures and just say there are not enough signatures, no one has any idea whether it is true or not, most likely not true. And now, on such conditions of the referendum, you are introducing additional obligations to the referendum initiatives. And what are you doing to yourself? You raise yourself money, you raise yourself money for election promotion so you can spend as much money as possible in this coming campaign, it's not enough for you to control most of the media, to advertise, so all the ministries, state companies, HEP, Croatian water, it's all advertised in the Evening List, the Morning List, Gabriela Žalac and the Ministry of European Funds are advertised via the Evening List, polished by character and work, and it's not enough for you, so you want more money, it's a little bit too to control most of the media in the Republic I'm looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132808	...respected colleague of the Grmoy. We move to the 73rd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. I call on the State Secretary to give an indication of the amendments 73 to 84, since they are amendments of identical content.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132809	Thank you, Vice President HS. So, for amendments 73 to 84, they are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law that regulates and finance other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132810	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132811	Thank you very much. We believe that a part of this law should be thrown out of the law relating to the financing of the referendum, that this law should have been a systematic part of the basic law on referendum, a text which means, in the whole problem of resolving the referendum, that you want to combine water and fire, you want it to, but you are not aware that you are going to try to shut down the people, the code to shut down the people, the people will understand, the Lovre Kuštević, which last night is going to announce the noblely that MOST's initiatives will fall, the bullets of the bridge from Neretva, as he is the hero of Homeland War on his Facebook, you gass, respected secret secretaries, fire, fire, water, that people see, that people wake up, 400 000 signatures for all your campaign, against all your pressures, institutional pressures, lies, how much money is imposed, how much money is made from the right of the law, which is the law is the law of the law, which is written, which is the law is the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law, which is written. There are now no representatives of national minorities who are representatives of the fight for human rights and freedom of speech, there are none, is it important that the sub-testations of their association, care for the referendum, care for the people of Serbian nationalities from my village, care for the neighbouring villages, care about where they were born, absolutely don't care, care how they raise their hands as Miljan Brkic tells them, as the prime minister tells them, it's important that Milorad Pupovac has good relations with them to get a little fight when the elections are, it's important and the referendum initiatives, let him sink, it's important for them. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132812	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. We're moving on to the 74th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132813	Thank you very much. When we talk about the referendum then I will continue it, we need to separate it from political activities and political parties. I'll do it again, it's incompatible, it'll lead to an explosion. The explosions of the people, I repeat, can't be extinguished by fire and you can't give examples I don't know, put a fox to guard your chicken or thief to guard your ATM. You want to put in the same cabbage, in the same kind of pot to put forward referendum initiatives, civil initiatives and we have an unregulated law, it's simply impossible to collect in 15 days 400,000 signatures, and when the initiative does, when it surprised you and when it hit you into the foundations of the problem because the house is built out of the ground, Croatia is the foundation of the Homeland War, but after the war you destroyed it by election laws directed by Vladimir Seks who brought this majority together because Prime Minister Vladimir Seks, he worked with this above balcony finger like this, he connected it to the meaning against all the rules, by the fraud of the people who entered the list, of course that he put the Vrdoljaks there, through the PPD, I don't know through whom not all of them, these obligations that they had but not well. We need to be a representative body, don't spill gas. The people will fly to you, the people will jump, I expect the people to jump, to stand up to this boast you show, we will give as many MPs here now, we will try to convince the people to stop you from destroying Croatia. The electoral law, the referendum, the promotion, so I think it's amazing that you're bringing together political parties and referendum activities, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132814	I thank my colleague Bull. Moving to Amendment No. 76, since there are no colleagues of Podolnjak, a respected counterpart of Hrvojo Runtic, please welcome colleague Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state. This amendment therefore requires that paragraph 10 be deleted, i.e. point 10 is deleted, point 10 of Article 2 is deleted. I'll explain now. I believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. And I would like to note that this law could actually be a unit for the speed of adopting legal solutions in Croatia. That unit could be called the speed of the shush. And that unit would be one shush, that would be three days. And I suggest that according to that unit then, by that speed of approach and solving some other current problems in Croatia, for example. The law of law. So the problem of the blockeds lasts longer than 10 years, in those 10 years there have been various false promises, it's ten years of agony for those people who appear to us every day. And recently only had as one package of solutions that offered some new opportunity, so some of these problems are covered up and now they're coming back, or they're coming back to the surface as we've discussed and warned since then, and that's the number of these solved problems are now slowly going back to the same number that was before you allegedly solved the problem. And please have a nice vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132816	Thank you, dear colleague Runtic. We are moving on to the 77th amendment of the respected colleague Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132817	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. So you read the argument, and here I hope you understand well what it says in the explanation where you claim that the referendum is also political, there is political action, but also citizens, and as such it is worth putting your shoulder to shoulder with the political action of political parties. And that's a terrible explanation, indeed a terrible explanation for a democratic country that seeks to develop one of its own, which certainly at least declares that it wants to put all of its health forces into that development, but when such an argument is heard, I think that these healthy forces are fleeing. So first with disgust I can listen to they believe, such an explanation and manifestation of it is their departure, so spontaneous departure, less and less unemployed, they go over, this time water and their children and Croatia are deposited, deposited, and this here, at least we don't see from your side, on the part of the government no one cares and I wonder how it is possible, how it is possible that there is such contempt for the people to do what it seems. Here, however, will likely help these 4 million kunas to preserve such a beautiful picture of these political elites in public. I'll beg your vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132818	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. We are moving on to the 79th amendment, as colleagues of Pranic are gone, respected MPs Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132819	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary, in Article 2 paragraph 10, is deleted, the argument is that the legal text should exclude the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the matter of the referendum. The proposer also believes that the right to regular annual finances from the budget should have been those political parties who, according to the final results of the elections, received a seat in the assembly or representative body of the unit of local self-government, and thus was in principle governed by Article 6 of the Law proposal. Therefore, we do not accept that money for regular annual funding can be transferred from independent representatives or councilors after the elections on political parties which did not earn that money on the basis of the election result, and there is also the possibility of political corruption. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132820	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 81st Amendment since there is no respected vice president of Mr. God Petrov's assembly, the distinguished representative Sonja Cikotic. Here you go, colleague Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132821	It is not opportunised, in fact, if it is to encourage democracy in this society that, in fact, the referendum initiatives are imposed by the same organisation in mind, regardless of what the current political action is about, those who have permanent political parties. Speaking of an organisation that has been imposed, I would refer to the organisation of this government regarding the EU presidency. In fact, this EU presidency government has organised that for 4 million kunas, cars are purchased for those who should be here or foreign officials. Also, this government predicted that there should be some assistance, certain liaison officers, but these liaison officers should be young people, highly educated at the last year of college, should expect intensive work, but imagine for 6 months their work, this government has predicted even though it will spend 70 million euros on the EU presidency, the European Commission, in fact, in 6 months it will predict that these young people will be shown that it is worth 100 kuna. So they're not gonna get a work fee, they're supposed to volunteer, be liaison officers, and actually work for a monthly show. This is why the Youth Council has also responded to this government’s view of the same unacceptable initiative and has responded to the disgraceful competition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that actually young highly educated people, at the last year of their college, work intensively for a certain show worth 100 kuna, 6 months 600 kuna. While in fact all those who will be hosted, who will be here will work normally for work or pay compensation. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132822	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 82nd Amendment of Honored Representative Mark Sladolev. Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I'm sorry that you reject all our amendments, I'm sorry that the Minister left you here alone, I don't think it's even gentlemenmanic of him, and I'm sorry that there is no one in this Croatian Assembly except for MOST. I think this is an important topic so other policy options don't have to be dealt with. I don't think it's enough just to take pictures at booths and signatures, to defend the right to democracy, so someone can say why MOST is rebelling over these 4 million kunas. So if that's how it was, you could have put a hundred million kuna number on it, why don't you donate 100 million kuna to some HDZ, so you're 100 billion kuna, so there's no limit there. The message is spoken of, we are talking about the message, here is Sonja Cikotic talking about young people, among other things, young people volunteered at these stands and in the referendums on the electoral law, so volunteering, and just when Croatia's EU presidency is required to volunteer, and now the name is being sent in some way a message, so 0 kuna to you, 4 million kuna, and again I'm telling us the message is bad. The message is unfortunately running out, we will rule either way and here we believe that we still have to fight for this Croatia and we will do everything we can to ensure that this law does not pass and we ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132824	I thank my colleague, Sladolev. We move on to the 83rd Amendment of Honored Representatives of Ines Strenja. Here you go, fellow Sagittarius.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132825	I thank you, therefore, once again for this amendment to delete point 10 in Article 2 and we believe that the legal text should exclude the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law needs to be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. And it should once again be pointed out that it is not our intention to obstruct this law, but it is our intention to warn all those who have ever signed any referendum initiative that we are talking about them here today, about their right to collect signatures and to request the signing of a referendum because what you have proposed becomes something that will not be possible in any way and why they will have to do it for free. So the way you treat referendum initiatives is to absolutely disable them, but that's what the people see, that's what the people see and that people hear somewhere. Every young person who spent hours and hours on those stands, every woman who took away from her children and from her family, to stand in the rain and in the wind and collect those signatures, will not forgive you for having decided to throw it under your feet and for trying to destroy every initiative so that the referendum could be called upon at all. Again, a new referendum begins, unfortunately, here today MOST shows that the only real opposition is that there are no other representatives of any opposition club and all those who are air-supporting the unions, who are going to ask for a referendum, not to work until 67 years, actually today. They're showing some of their true paintings. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132826	I'd like to thank my colleagues. We are moving on to the 84th Amendment of Honored Representative Nikola Grumoja, please welcome your colleague, Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132827	Thank you, Vice President. So we want to point out here again. The aim of this government is to disable the referendum of citizens. We will have a union referendum on pension reform ahead of the European elections. If State Secretary Rimac and Minister Kuščević and the Law on the Referendum take place, they may receive a referendum on the referendum, we will see that, too, and that may be the answer to what they are doing, but let them be aware that then they will surely collect a much larger number of signatures, then everyone, I am convinced, and unions and all initiatives will stand behind such a referendum because there is a lot more of your behaviour towards Croatian citizens in which you want to obstruct citizens in a statement, and you want to increase your financial resources. Here today we can also see the relationship between other political options to the referendum. No colleagues from the SDP, no colleagues from the Living Wall, no colleagues from HRAST from, I don't know, Independent for Croatia, there's no one from HDZ, so here in HS, and you're left here by the government and Vice President Brkic are probably at odds. So, you have to be here, I mean I never like to trample on the one who's being trampled on by everyone, it's not easy for our vice president at this point in HDZ and I'm here, which I've always attacked, and I'm expressing my support to him and to you at this point because they put you in this awkward situation that you have to defend what's indefensible, you have to turn out like those who are fighting for the party register, and I'm guessing you're not the kind of people who are obstructing the referendum initiatives. So here I ask that someone from the government, Minister Kuscevic, come here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and defend this law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132828	Dear comrade Grmoya, thank you for your support. Don't be afraid for me, I'll take care of everything. I've endured worse. We move to the 85th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I'm asking the secretary of state to keep an eye on the amendments in order. No. 85-96, since the amendments are identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132829	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. I'm looking at amendments of No. 85.-96, which are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132830	I thank the secretary of state. Please represent the applicant of the amendment.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, it's easy for citizens on a concrete example to explain what will actually come out of your law. It's the fact that you want to regulate the campaign referendum only on citizens' initiatives. So, the ones who run the referendum. In particular, given that we have notices and publications in the press, the organisational committee that will seek a referendum on pension reform will, therefore, be subject to the provisions of the law in accordance with this law, however, to all those who will oppose the referendum, including the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who has already made many statements by means of its ministers against the referendum, calling the union referendum politics, in no way regulated by this law. It can freely run a pro-tourendum campaign and all those who consider the referendum unnecessary, however, can finance it. I can pay for ads, the government can use public funds. However, this is not regulated by this law and thus entities seeking a referendum and those against it are not placed in the same position. This is what is contrary to the recommendations made by the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe, and we insisted on this in the debate. That is why this problem must be in a special referendum law, which you refuse, but that would be only right and correct to all entities involved in a particular referendum story and those who are for some referendum and those who are against it. In this proposal, it is completely lagging behind and that is why he is not good, I demand a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132832	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dolnjak. We're moving on to the 86th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132833	Thank you very much. Simply, to say that you have merged incompatiblely and that in the basic law of the text that deals with the referendum's issues should be singled out and dealt with these things as protourendum and referendum initiatives. You've just made a mess here. In this chaos, I can also say that as an activist, I was the coordinator of a number of referendum initiatives that were before I was a parliamentary representative and I know what it means to be on the ground and organise people, and without money to collect signatures. I was also an activist on other issues, not just in the referendum, and I know that it's a very important part of society, activity is very important, and volunteering to, these are people who impose change. So I call on all young people and all citizens to oppose and rebel against this current government, either in the elections, or in the referendums, come out because these are simply the murderers of democracy, and freedom of speech, and these referendums, and the referendum with this Law where they want a referendum, essentially financing electoral activities and referendums put in the same basket. Here's only when we look at the way that health care has been brought to us in our areas, here's the mayoral ex-Knin, knows what health care is like in Knin, how the state government treats the hospital that gave one name Croatian pride, how women die in rows without radiologist for the ultrasound of the breast, how we don't have pediatricians in Dalmatia Zagora. For what? Or the will to fight that people has been killed and no one has the will to fight. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132834	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We're moving on to the 87th Amendment of Honored colleague Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132835	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me give you an explanation of the amendment requesting that representatives of the Organising Committee of Conference Initiatives be left behind, to mark one sentence by Minister Pavic on the announcement of a referendum saying: "The trade unions deal with politics ahead of the EU elections." It is clear from that sentence, from all other sentences to be spoken by ministers in the government, the prime minister, members of the parliamentary majority, that the referendum that are now proposing the Union is absolutely unacceptable to them. They will be fully involved in the protourendum campaign. However, this pro-tourendum campaign is in no way regulated by the Law, nor by the Law on Referendum, nor by this Law that we are discussing today. And we just want the citizens who are following this debate to understand that we are solely asking that both sides be covered by the Law, that they be treated equally, that the law be fair, that it also includes referendum initiatives as well as those that act against them, that it gives them the opportunities of public funding as usual in democratic states that have institutes and referendums, and thus citizens can get real and objective information about the content of a particular referendum where they will have to plead on an important legal issue. This bill does not resolve it and there is no such legal provision, and therefore I ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132836	I thank my fellow Downworlder. We move on to the 88th Amendment of the Honored Representative Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go, colleague Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132837	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Romec, the Honorable Secretary of State. This amendment means that Article 2, point 11, is deleted, so point 11 is no longer present. I'll explain it now. I believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the Law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. However, I would look again at one of the questions that may not be spoken of here in the Croatian Parliament, or at least I have not heard anyone speak of it, which is a question of homelessness in Croatia and perhaps would appeal to you all who do not listen to me now, that this question may be resolved in such a speedy way as this question of "give money" or "shut question". So we could recently hear the President of the Republic of Croatia say there are no homeless in Zagreb. I played the case for a few days before that with the attorney general and wondered how many homeless people there were in Zagreb. There are between two and three thousand homeless people in Zagreb. And what is absurd to me is that at this point Croatia has the Ministry of State Property, and that these people have not thought to say, resolve the issue of homelessness in Croatia, which they could indeed not. As for this amendment, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132838	I thank my esteemed colleague Runtic. We move on to the 89th Amendment of Honored Representative Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go, colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132839	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. So, this amendment also concerns the unusual treatment of a referendum which is normally the most direct, most desirable form of direct democratic declaration of the people's will, and as such should be cherished, and as such should be developed and in accordance with new technological opportunities, there are indeed opportunities for this extremely good, to be implemented in a cheap, fast and simple manner. On the contrary, we also had a situation with this amendment, so we are trying to change this unusual situation, this unusual reality that you are trying to push through this Law, which is that a referendum, like this valuable form of democratic life of every country is choking, shutting down, making it difficult for the Croatian people, or all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who in one apathy, lose their will for a further life because they see that prosperity here is not and we are losing the population. So I really don't know why it's going in that direction, I'm sure there are forces in your government for the right solutions, why they're not in the first place, we'd be here, I'd at least take it by hand, but we're dealing with things like this that are definitely two, three steps back. about democracy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132840	Dear colleague Dobrovic. We are moving on to the 91st amendment since our colleagues, Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, are not present.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132841	The Honorable Vice President of HS. Respected secretary of state, fellow MPs and fellow MPs who are not present, except us from the MOST Club. Amendment 8 in Art. Point two. 11 is wiped out. We believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum itself. We believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum itself. In addition to this, the proposer considers that the proposed law does not address the problem of funding the referendum activity as it regulates only civil initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign nor regulate the rights and obligations or restrictions of the national authorities in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information from the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-Council, the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives will also be introduced and the Minister himself confirmed this, so that protureferendum initiatives should also be institutionalised. Registering, registering its representative and by that logic of things, such anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign, so it is only justified to regulate the funding of referendum and pro-tureendum initiatives at the same time in one law. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132842	I thank my colleague Ninčević Lesandric. We move on to the 92nd Amendment of the Honored Vice President of HS, fellow God Petrova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132843	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. What's interesting with this law going on, every initiative that should go in the direction of benefit for citizens, in the government can come across a wall and very often encounters a wall, but initiatives like this, when political parties need to deepen their pocket for elections, so you spend it, here, if it should be at 7 o'clock in the evening, if it should be at 2 o'clock in the morning, however, you will break over your knees and spend it in action. I'd like you to stand up for the citizens that way. And this isn't pathetic. We have had a situation in which we have proposed to you the Implementing Law, amendments to the Implementing Law, which would indeed make this Implementing Law a quality. At a normal time of day debated in the Parliament, you all refused. It was like that, I dare say, crazy explanations like those so what would lawyers do if they adopted something like this. That's when you didn't even think of citizens. But you don't have a problem, it's not the secretary of state that you've been standing here for 15 hours because it'll help your foreigner, but it won't help the citizens. And what I'm particularly interested in, but there will be time, I guess all night long, so I'll have anything to say to you, is this perhaps consistent with EU members? As far as I know, and we'll talk more, she suggested that the EU introduce an e-voting, for example. It's the same from your vault. Well, that didn't occur to you to do, but to deepen your own bill for political marketing, that can be 2. At night. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132844	We move to the 93rd Amendment of Honored Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132845	Your Honor, this amendment actually refers to the financing of the referendum and that part of the law should be an integral part of the legal text that regulates the problem of the referendum. So, as we have already had the opportunity to hear, we are soon coming to public consultation, and then to HS, or before that, to the government, comes the new Law on Referendum. In fact, we believe that the referendum law should also regulate referendum initiatives, so it is not possible that this government is afraid of referendum initiatives related to the extension of the working deadline, i.e. until 67. Likewise, through a series of amendments, and this amendment relating to the financing of the referendum opposes the fact that the referendum initiatives that come from the people, which are created by ad hoc, must actually have an organisation, legal, administrative and financial in the way that it is set up in political parties, and when we are talking about organisation, we see that you know very well how to organise certain activities for yourselves, and they concern the presidencies that are before us. 70m euros are provided for the presidency, and for young people who are supposed to be liaison officers, only 600 kuna is scheduled for 6 months to show for the monthly ticket to the public-published competition of the foreign ministry. So, you simply get such criticisms in public, you get from young people who leave Croatia more and more every day to go looking for a better life because all they want is a normal life. They want the normal life of an Irishman, one German, to actually be able to make a living in the morning with their professional training, with their hard work, with dignity for a crust of bread, and in fact live unburdened by certain political manipulations. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132846	I thank my esteemed colleague, Chikotic. We're moving on to the 94th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev. Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so it is very clear why MOST has submitted 888 amendments to prevent you from passing this law and we are, of course, using this business opportunity to prevent you. So this initiative of ours may not succeed, but we think Croatia is worth fighting for that initiative and what we are here in the assembly right now, that it is a struggle for a fairer Croatia and we will not give up on it. So here's the moment for about 2 hours our Croatian football team game may be your minister right now or in 2 hours will be on the back of some tycoon, we're here now. Yeah, so this one right here is the difference between us and you, we're going to use every business opportunity and this possibility to stop you in one law that we don't think is good, so that's democracy. I know it's hard for you to understand what democracy is, so democracy is another 4 million kuna for election promotion, but we won't give it up. And I repeat again why you put 4 million kunas so when you could put 100 million kunas, then a billion kunas don't play any part for you about money. The message is bad, the message to young people is bad, the political parties no longer need money so they can be financed from membership fees, so I repeat again we will also ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132848	I thank my colleague, Sladolev. We move on to the 95th Amendment of the Honored Representative of Ines Strenja. Here you go, fellow Sagittarius.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132849	I thank you again, I would like to repeat that it is not our intention to obstruct this law this law should have been something that would regulate the financing of political parties but would actually turn into a law that needs to deepen the possibility, money that HDZ will receive and the ability to succeed even better and even more magnificently in the next Europarliamentary elections. But maybe you've recalculated. So, there is probably one of the referendum initiatives that will probably collect enough signatures and need to be collected, behind it will stand unions, and probably all parties who think they will catch some of their PR votes that we see are not currently in the assembly when we are fighting for referendum initiatives to be financed properly, but the referendum initiative prepared by Croatian trade unions will actually once again point to something that you have passed the same law by the hand of your defectors who have deceived, from the parties and individuals who have deceived their voters, which you have actually extended the working age for 3 years. It is a paradox because we have come to the situation that Croats live shorter, but they must work as much longer in Europe. Unfortunately, you will see this referendum initiative with votes that will gather and certainly have some implications for what will happen in the europarliamentary elections as well as all that will happen in May as a consequence of your breaking over your knee. And that's why tonight these 888 amendments you're going to hear will once again show you that you're wrong. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132850	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagittarius. We move on to the 96th Amendment of the Honored Representative of Nikola Grumoya. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132851	Thank you, Vice President, it would be good for this assembly to be sitting at night when laws are to be passed in favour of our citizens. We've always been about having a meeting on no of these breaks like this election break in Lika-Senj County but it's sad to see that you're only willing to sit when it comes to your party register and your money. At the same time, through this law, to push through certain provisions that do not go in favour of referendum initiatives, which require referendum initiatives to have financial reports almost as political or political parties, and we know what kind of machinery the political party has at their disposal. And things get even more absurd when we know how hard it is to collect signatures in Croatia at all, how many signatures it takes, that deadline lasts only 14 days, so we have almost the most restrictive model for referendum initiatives. And then you make it even more difficult through that law, all in the same law are trying to raise money for these EU elections that are coming. I am convinced no matter what, that HDZ will be punished in these euro elections, of course it is possible that this result is presented and presented and as a victory just as you have now presented in Lika-Senj County but again you stayed in the opposition, these were, in the end, pointless elections. I am convinced that the Croatian people are opening their eyes a little bit, that they understand what kind of policy you advocate and that such a policy destroys Croatia, makes people out of the country, that this policy is prone to corruption and affairs, and that this clientele policy must once come to an end I'm looking for a vote. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132852	We move to the 97th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I call on the Secretary of State to show us about amendments 97 to 108 since they are identical content, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132853	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the promoters, we are aware of the amendments from 97 to 108, so the amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law that regulates and finance other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132854	Thank you. Representative of the Most, dear colleague Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. When you regulate the problem of funding the referendum campaigns, it would be logical to expect that you will include in the law those provisions resulting, for example, from the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Europe, therefore, international organisations for which the Republic of Croatia is now running for the main secretary of the international organisation, and that you would certainly know that in January of this year, the Parliament Assembly of the Council of Europe was discussing the regulation of the referendum, particularly the referendum of citizens' initiatives, so where citizens are starting them. So these are the fresh recommendations they voted for, including HDZ representatives in that parliamentary assembly, but everything they voted there on the guidelines, you didn't install anything here. For example, to install public funding provisions for a referendum campaign, that both sides and those that are for a referendum and which cannot provide citizens with certain information that will be financed so that citizens get quality information about what is being decided in a referendum, it is now almost a rule in democratic states that citizens do not get some fake news, distorted information, but what advocates advocated by advocates and opponents to make quality decisions for citizens, so I ask for a vote on the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132856	I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. We're moving on to the 98th Amendment of Honorable Representative Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132857	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My fellow Members and colleagues, I believe that what this fire is burning, this government fire against the decisions of the government that are at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the people will react bitterly, that the time will come when the referendum will be something normal, enforceable and in the procedure very simply legal, not that the government will be the brakes of the people devoting this parliament. It all started in 2009. when the HDZ Government changed the Constitution before a referendum to join the EU that 50% + 1 voter should be released in the election year i.e. When the referendum was being held, then you went to plant the people and everyone in HS then raised their hand for it, unanimously. And today when we decide on important matters in the Republic of Croatia, you do not allow that people to hold a referendum. Call a referendum when people collect their signatures, our citizens, don't invalidate the will of the citizens, then Kosoric's Government did it, and then it was Andrej Plenkovic and these people who are now running the state, the right hand, she was everything to them, Miljan Brkic has to confirm it well, so you can't adapt the referendum questions how it suits you or to spend this lex rumor to secure the money to his party. to enter that parliament and serve worse... [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132858	I thank my colleague Bull for this obvious. I'm setting a break until 7:20. It's 7:00. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the 99th Amendment of Honored Representative Robert Podlonjak. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 19.20 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132860	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, allow me to trace what I said a few minutes ago about the same amendment, to propose the Law... Regulating referendums, funding referendums and referendum campaigns, unfortunately not balanced in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a specific type of campaign that does not have similarity with election campaigns competing with political parties, candidates under equal conditions for certain positions in representative bodies or other duties. However, there are quite different entities in the referendum campaigns, there are initiatives that propose a particular referendum, there is the possibility of pro-tourendum initiatives, there is a Government as an entity, especially in those initiatives relating to a Law proposed by the Government, which the Croatian Parliament adopted. Unfortunately, and I keep saying this, this proposed law only speaks of referendum initiatives, their organisational committee, their representatives, their obligations, in which way they can finance the campaign, which are possible amounts and everything else. He doesn't say anything about pro-tourendum initiatives, he doesn't say anything about what the government's role is, what the government can and can't do, whether it can participate in any way against such referendum initiatives. For example, some other laws have very well worked out, but in other countries, we have warned this in the first and second readings, and it is not accepted, and therefore we are asking for a vote on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132861	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dolnjak. We move on to the 100th Amendment of the Honored colleague Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go, colleague Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132862	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. In this amendment, in Article 2, point 12, the words and the representative of the organisational committee would be deleted. I believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the Law should be an integral part of the basic legal text which regulates the problem of the referendum, but I would like to re-use this time to draw attention to what I have left to, for example, the issue of the executive law or the problem blocked, could be guided by the speed that led to the adoption of this Law, so I would suggest the same speed for the adoption of a whole and concrete constructive solution to the issues blocked, which in Croatia is now again about as much as it was before that last so-called solution. Just before Minister Bosnjakovic was there, I asked him about it, so he said that the last measures solved the question of some 50 to 60 thousand citizens who were in a 350 thousand blockade, and now that number is increasing again, it's almost like calling it, like, uh, a washing machine repairman, so he says I fixed it a little bit, and it still doesn't work, no. Therefore, I appeal to the problem of citizens, because citizens should be first, as it says in the Constitution, that the government comes from the people, is, at this rate, addressing concrete issues of citizens. And please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132863	I thank my colleague Runtic. We move on to the 101st amendment of a respected colleague, Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132864	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. So this amendment, too, we wanted to correct the illogicalness of, in our belief, the wrong thing, the wrong approach to these issues, but the public declaration of citizens, therefore, the referendum issue, as the most valuable way of democratic expression of the people. When it is already going to make it difficult for this Law to do things that are already complex and difficult to come to the referendum issue, then it should certainly be built in, those things that are related to the financing of pro-tourendum initiatives that always exist, so that this approach, and this legislative solution definitely does not comply with norms, therefore, democratic life, access to the European Union, whose proud part we are, and certainly is not the way to leave this solution in the law, so we insist on changing, insisting on a different understanding and treatment of referendums as the most valuable democratic expression of the will of the people. We will certainly ask this question, as well as all others, to inform citizens, to make it clear to them that this is about the will of the people, that there is no place, therefore hopelessness, that we must set foot and seek a better path. We're going to ask for a statement on this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132865	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. Since there are no colleagues, we move on to the 103rd amendment of the respected representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132866	The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected State Secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. In the case of a Member State of 12 words "this representative of the organisational committee", are deleted. We believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. We also believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. In addition to this, the proposer considers that the proposed law does not address the problem of funding referendum activities as it regulates only citizens' initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign nor regulate the rights and obligations or restrictions of the national authorities in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information from the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-Council, the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives will also be instituted and registered, and according to this logic, such anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their own campaign, and at the same time it is justified to regulate funding for referendum and pro-referendum initiatives. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132867	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 104th Amendment of the Vice President of HS, fellow God Petrova, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132868	Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll just continue what I told you in the previous interpretation of the amendment. Have you complied with this law with other EU members? Because usually when we suggested to you before in the government that you do something, you called, and we need to check it with the state of their legislation. Did you get this thing in line, by any chance? Or didn't you care about this? I guess you didn't care. Interesting. When we proposed to introduce a state audit into the CNB, you were able to postpone it for two years, and all because the ECB did not give consent. Although it was in all other EU Member States, the state audit could have entered, it was an argument for you at the time. Interestingly, there's no argument today, now there's no argument at all for lex shush. But the only argument that works for you is more money, fatter pocket, and if you need it, you'll do it at 2:00 in the morning. Unbelievable. But what is interesting, the EU, as far as I know, has advised you to introduce e-voting, so not only is e-voting allowed in other EU member states. The EU has advised you to introduce e-voting. Why isn't it there? Today you pass one other law, but interestingly, when the EU provisions do not suit you, deafen up and forget about them. Because e-vote also allows those who are not there today to vote, but you would not vote for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132869	Thank you, dear colleague Petrov. We move on to the 105th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132870	As a matter of fact, yes. The key thing about this law is the speed of its adoption, and that's why we gave this series of amendments that actually that party that is ruling could not pass laws that apply only to them and we wanted to demonstrate to the whole public that even though you have all the power and you can, as your prime minister likes to say, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, I can do what I want, that he can do what he wants, but obviously he doesn't care and the fact that he's been given two years of office, and he hasn't passed the Family Law, which remains numerous fathers and mothers solve their problems by welfare centres that have no adequate capacity. He is also not at all concerned by the fact that in the last one, according to the report of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality in 2017, at least children have been born in the last 100 years, and also, what he least cares about is the Law on agencies that would actually regulate the legal area so that agencies with public powers could act. You actually brought in last year and said you'd shut down certain agencies. In fact, the agency's gone, all those employees who were in the agencies, they moved into the ministry, and actually, there was a move of personnel. The budget hasn't changed, last year in 2017, 27.9 billion kuna were provided for by public officials, and in the 2019 budget, that went to 29.1 billion kuna precisely because you see that support and that each survey shows that more and more citizens, 73% think that this government is driving or going in the wrong direction, you want to limit all mechanisms available to citizens for direct action. The last example was when you wiped out 400,000 signatures with them and put them in a dark dark basement. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132871	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 106th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, therefore, another amendment in a series that will be rejected, but we will continue to defend them, i.e. propose, therefore, for a simple reason. For the reason we care about Croatian citizens, here I am today, when I went to the Parliament, I heard from my former student who is a single mother of two children who needs to install an artificial snail and she is aware that this artificial snail is expensive and costs 150,000 kn, but we have, therefore, one example, so there is no money for it, the political parties are being raised, so the amount is. donations and that's a bad message. So again, I am sorry that there is no Minister Kusčević, he announced on the facebook yesterday that the bridge was destroyed, I can tell him because he is not here to see the film "My Songs, My Dreams" because it will not be true. So, what I would also like to emphasise in the interpretation of this amendment that this law is very quickly, therefore, brought to the agenda, quickly wants to be declared, on the other hand we have a public administration reform that stands, so MOST put the administration's 880 million kuna to reform the public administration, however, it does not want to be touched because as Prime Minister Plenkovic said, these are our voters. So, it does not touch those who are voters, but it is touched by Croatian citizens who make hardly an end to the end and that is the message of this government, it is a message of this law, we clearly want to say that we are not for it and if we have to fight until the morning we will fight that this law does not pass. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132873	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 107th Amendment of Honored colleague Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132874	And once again, I will repeat that it is not our intention to obstruct this law, but to prove that the money you want to transpose with this law to be used for European elections can be used for much more important things in the Republic of Croatia. So we'll prove that he's worth fighting for because you'll be here all night listening to us defend our amendments and we'll send a message from here that the Republic of Croatia can't be the hostage of one party and the defectors who support it in order to pass a bill of urgency and provide itself with 4 million kunas instead of 1.5 as far as possible. You want to prevent the referendum initiatives from being able to regulate the funding of referendum requirements now, and I think that this will go back to your head because the referendum initiative that is coming and that wants to point out once again the illogicality that in the Republic of Croatia life spans 3 years shorter than the one in the EU and it is 77.9 years, and you want to, no matter how short we live than Europeans, to extend the working age to 67. and we cannot get the impression that it is actually only for the benefit of pension funds, not for the benefit of Croatian citizens. All of this is in this law, therefore, to put an end to the referendum initiatives and to remove or allocate more money to yourself in order to achieve an even greater, even greater, even better result in European elections. The citizens see it, and I hope they'll know and assess it. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132875	I'd like to thank my colleagues. We're moving on to the 108th Amendment of Honored colleague Nikola Grumoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132876	Thank you, Vice President. So, it's clear, and I think we've sent a message here and we'll send it by morning and tomorrow if we're not going to let HDZ do what it wants, at least it doesn't do it without any resistance, the resistance will get it from the MPs of the Most because here nobody from the opposition, here's a colleague of Hasanbegovic, I see that he's here, but there's no one from the MPs all afternoon, nor, from the ranks of the Living Wall, nor from the ranks of any other political option here in HS, we're giving them resistance, and we'll give it to them by morning. Why? Because when HDZ is supposed to do something for citizens, then it is very slow, when it is necessary to reform the judiciary, it is not happening, when it is necessary to reform public administration, there is nothing, when it has to be dealt with with criminals, it is not happening, when it has to clean its ranks, there is nothing, we only talk about the fight against partnering capitalism at HDZ meetings, and when it is necessary to raise the amount for election promotion, there are expeditions and speedy, there is the secretary of state ready to sit and 7 days if it only needs to deepen the party's register and to make it impossible for citizens in the referendum statement. Your only goal is to kill any hope that this country can change for the better, but to wear the spark that burns in our hearts, this desire that the Republic of Croatia will not change, and we will certainly provide resistance, not only to this The law, but also on other laws. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132877	Thank you, dear colleague. We move to the 109th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I'm asking the secretary of state to point out the amendments from the number 109 to the number 120 since they are identical content, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132878	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the promoter on amendments 109 to 120, the amendments are not accepted for reasons because we consider it necessary to provide minimum common standards in relation to the amount of funds provided to the budgets of local and regional self-government units for the regular annual financing of political parties and members of the representative bodies of the units selected from the list of voting groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132879	Thank you. Proposer representative, esteemed colleague Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132880	Here, the next set of amendments refers to the forced harassing of local budgets in such a way that this law provides that each local budget must provide for a certain minimum amount to be financed by political parties, or independent council members, based on the provisions of this law. Yes, and the existing law prescribes it, there is a provision, but it says the funds will be provided in budgets and each municipality, city and county autonomously determines how much that money will be determined. However, this is obviously not enough of the ruling foreigners and is now prescribed amounts that are not small, which each municipality, city and county will have to secure in their budget, the emphasis is on the words must, a forced hacker to provide money for political parties, watch out for hundreds of municipalities, cities and counties, a great deal of money. There is probably a calculation that the legislator did not tell us how many additional millions will, on this basis, be collected from the local budget, pour into the gyro accounts primarily of the party that has the most participation in local self-governments, which is of course HDZ. And for that reason, and that is the only reason why this provision and why we are against it and we want to retain an existing legal provision that has given local self-government the right to determine for themselves what amount it will give to political parties. And that's why we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132881	Thank you, dear colleague. 110th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132882	And now it's not too late to withdraw this anti-constitutional and illegal law because it's simply not respected procedure. You have also mixed election promotion, political party financing, retroactive application, we have more cities and municipalities and local self-government and regional than America and China combined. Here, a few days ago there was the County Assembly and of course we have a health problem in Split-Dalmatia County, in the Makarska coast, the Imotski region, the Cetinski area, the entire Dalmatian Zagora, in Knin where the secretary of honor Josipa Rimac, who was the longtime mayor, came from. I suggested that it be 1 kuna for the congregation and for the political work and 1 kuna and 10 for the sub-represented sex, which is women. They didn't accept. They didn't accept it. I want to tell you why. Because they don't care about health care where we don't have a pediatrician, I've given the amendment that we have a pediatrician in the Dalmatian Zagora, where children instead of having 4 pediatricians in the Cetina region at one point had only one pediatrician, they don't invest in specializations, but the counties are investing in political parties. That's what's important to them. And of course where they'll accept Kerum and his civil party, where it'll be accepted by Ante Sanader, where they'll accept that they're not going to have money in the party register. There was also the MOST with 400 thousand kunas where I proposed it and was ready to give that money to the pediatricians and to increase the number of specializations in the area. You are making this law impossible for the development of the Republic of Croatia, you are holding back the foundation and this is the right to direct democracy and we are the representative body of our people who in this way and in this way and in this behaviour and the Ministry and the HDZ which is in power and the SDP that has pushed the same, we are not essentially protecting the interests of the people but of the political elites. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132883	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We move on to 111 amendments, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132884	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Romec, the most respected secretary of state. On behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, I am looking for a break in the maximum, preferably several days, and in order to carry out party consultations with Mrs. Jelen Velač, in the case of the Independent for Croatia, on the final decision to vote on this important Law on the financing of political activities of the electoral promotion and referendum. Namely, this issue of its importance due to the fact that the government of the magistrate Andrej Plenkovic, Mr Kuščević and others, has without reason rejected hundreds of proposed amendments, and because of the first-class state and national background of the referendum law, all this requires, it crosses the party frameworks, seeks consultations with the largest Croatian moral and intellectual authority and Mrs Jelena Velača at this time no doubt one of the few major Croatian moral and intellectual authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132885	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hasanbegovic. I'm setting a break until 20.00. It's 19.48 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.01 HOURS]] We move on to the 111th Amendment of Honored Representative Robert Podlonjak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, this amendment concerns forced financing for political parties in local budgets in the amounts prescribed by the Law. The existing structure of the Croatian local self-government has been older than a quarter of a century, and the Law has always allowed local self-governments to finance both political parties and independent councilors, but never before in these over 25 years, local self-governments have been ordered to provide certain money. And let me point out another important thing. Local budgets for this year have been adopted, entered into force, this Law requires local self-government to change their budgets during this year in order to provide additional funds for political parties if they have not already provided in the budget they have made for 2019. So this law even goes so far as to commit all municipalities and cities, and Countys that they have to possibly even change the budgets already passed to secure money for political parties, and that is absolutely unacceptable, and that is a provision that, with feedback, retroactively affects all local budgets adopted. And if they don't do that to local self-government, the law will sanction them and punish them with tens of thousands of kunas, and that's why it's absolutely unacceptable, and we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132888	I thank my fellow Downworlder. 112th Amendment of the Honored Representative Hrvojo Runtic. Here you go, colleague Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is therefore appropriate to amend and amend the funds for the regular annual financing of political parties and members of the presidential bodies of units of local and regional self-government, selected from the list of voters from the budget of units of local and regional self-government, to provide units of local and regional self-government in the amount determined in the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government for each year for which the budget is made. I know I'm probably boring, but it's absolutely unacceptable for me to rub a fat goose's neck, I repeat, in a country where 28% of people live on the edge of poverty. To me it's, I don't know, it's immoral to me, it's a hypocrite, I'm not actually going to say immorally, it's a word that, uh, has experienced great inflation in Croatia, but it's absolutely imbecileal to me. I apologize for that word, but I think that's the only word I can, uh, describe what I think about it. So 850,000 people, in a country that has about four million inhabitants, live on the edge of poverty. So this is absolutely unacceptable, in any, I don't know, frames, I mean, what, when these representatives come from Europe and see what's going on here, if they see, that they, they cross both hands and feet. And here, I demand a vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132890	Thank you. We move on to the 113th Amendment of the Honored Representative Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132891	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. So this, we started with a new set of amendments, so this amendment opens up that new part. In fact, the mandatory financing of political parties in local self-government units in a defined amount means another step in the creation and protection of a political caste that has been for almost 30 years, and of course before that it has done, masters of this country, and which does not give it forward, despite its potential, both human and natural to step forward. Therefore, indeed, when a man looks at this Law, he can see that he is actually involved in protecting political officials, so political work, because he raises the first minimum amounts of money that can be spent in campaigns, and raises amounts, that is to say, regulates how much money political work must be touched, instead of leaving it, that, of course, according to the possibilities of local self-government units. And, of course, it also makes it impossible for a referendum as a completely acceptable thing, a referendum that is actually a kind of communication with the interested public, which can only be helpful to go in the direction of development. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132892	I thank my esteemed colleague. We are moving on to the 115th amendment, as there is no fellow MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132893	The Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, in Article 10(2) of the amendment, reads: "The funds for the regular annual financing of political parties and members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government selected from the list of constituents from the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government shall be required to provide the units of local and regional (regional) self-government in the amount determined in the budget of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government for each year for which the budget is and adopted." In our explanation, we propose to keep an existing legislative provision on the financing of political parties and independent councilors from the local budget, without the prescribed mere minimum amounts that local and regional self-government units must provide in their budget as unnecessary intrusion into the autonomy of the adoption of a local budget. So, we now under this new law, which is what you want to vote, the city bodies and the city council or the mayor and the municipal council, can no longer prescribe that the amount of financial resources that will be allocated to the political, political, campaigning before the elections will be as symbolic as our colleague Ante Pranic, Mayor Vrgorca has determined for his local self-government unit, but you are actually forcing both mayors and mayors and city councils to spend taxpayers' funds on quite unnecessary things. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132894	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 116th Amendment, the Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Assembly of fellow Members of the Republic of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132895	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs, I regret to say that although I understand how HDZ works, what I cannot understand is that you are also mocking citizens, so is there no greater or more responsible activity than you are trying to save your citizens money. That you're trying to get the money that the citizens have been incometing on a certain local self-government for quality things. And what happens today when the mayors show up, the mayors who say, we don't want the money to be spent on councilmen anymore, and even the councillors agree that that money they're supposed to get is going for quality projects at that level at local self-government, you say not, you who swear to decentralisation from the national level make a decision in what they're laughing at and how money can be spent. And when the mayor or mayor, when the city council members say, but we don't want to spend money on people from our city, we give that money, you can't give it, we don't want you to give it. You who apparently want to hear the word "citizens," you're suffocating her. Suffocate her this way, choke her through the strangulation of the referendum, choke her in every way possible, only until when. Here's your answer to the citizens by the time. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132896	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We are moving to the 117th Amendment of Honored Representative Sonja Cikotic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132897	Thank you, Amendment 10 is a representative of the Most in Article 5(2) of the amendment, in fact, an obligation from the central state is imposed through this law to actually set minimum fees for political work for each representative in the Council. What does that mean exactly? This means that this law prescribes a certain competence in terms of funding from the local budget, although this local budget is actually within the competence of local self-government or regional self-government. What does that mean exactly? This means that, for example, 51 council members work in Split-Dalmatia County. This means that a minimum fee will be set for the political work of 5,000 kuna, which means that the county will have to allocate 3,060,000 kuna annually for the work of one representative in the council, meaning that 12 million kuna will be minimally allocated to the political work of the persons participating in the representative body or that the parties on whose lists are elected will receive that money. What I want to note is that the state does not care the same way about demographic revitalization, for example. we have the Ministry of Science and Education in which there is no clear strategy for the establishment of formal care, it is transferred to finance aunts in kindergartens to local self-government units, but here the legislator wants to ensure that if he loses power in the central sense, the state authority, the national authority, that he continues to have a prescribed fee that the head of local or regional self-government cannot influence this. So there is a minimum fee for political work per representative of 8000 kuna in the City of Zagreb, in the provinces of 5,000, in cities up to 10,000, over 10,000 3,500 kuna, and imagine in those Thank you, please vote on the amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132898	Thank you. We're moving on to the 118th Amendment of Honored Representative Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132899	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, here is the amendment relating to the financing of therefore political parties from local self-government units, just to point out that Croatia is the country with the largest number of professional politicians throughout the EU, so 13400 professional politicians live, therefore, in the Republic of Croatia, and as far as financing is concerned, therefore, these politicians, the City of Zagreb, are ahead of them, to inform the Croatian public that the City of Zagreb has 17 city districts and 280 local committees and that they are in fact highly paid by Croatian citizens of the City of Zagreb for their actions, and that the reform of local self-government in Zagreb has not yet begun, that these are people who are probably honest, some of them are doing their job, but they do not decide anything and are being financed by the citizens of the City of Zagreb. So, we live in one system of political caste, so the caste that wants to now be strengthened even more by this law, so politicians have unlimited, therefore, power in the Republic of Croatia. One of the corrective arguments and the corrections of power is also the form of a referendum that some politicians want to do here, therefore, the referendum is corrective to the ruling majority, regardless of who it was and now we have the fact that units of local self-government, therefore, finance politicians, and that they do not have for kindergartens and colleagues Miro Bulj, here, specifically in Sinj proposed to take political parties, the payment of a pediatrician in Sinj, and that amendment has not passed, is unlikely to pass even these amendments. But we'll ask for a vote. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132900	We move to the 119st Amendment of Honored Representatives of Ines Strenja, please welcome fellow Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I've been looking for this amendment, therefore, to be in art. Paragraph 2 is amended and reads "the funds for the regular annual financing of political parties and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional or regional self-government selected from the list of groups of voters from the budget of units of local and regional self-government shall be subject to the provision of a unit of local and regional self-government in the amount determined in the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government for each year for which the budget is adopted." Therefore, the proposer proposes to retain the existing legislative provision on the financing of political parties and independent council members from the local budget without prescribing certain minimum amounts that the units of local and regional self-government must ensure in their budget as an unnecessssssary in autonomy and adoption of local budgets. And you know what that means? This means we are asking that this law does not oblige 570 local self-governments to return more than one million additional budget money once again because this money of local self-government needs, that money needs poor, primarily local self-government, they need for warm meals of children, for extended stay, for showing cards to high school students who are enormously expensive, which is why children leave high school, that money is needed for additional health checks and for those citizens who don't actually have the opportunity to come because the priority lists are blocked and because of that and because of the large lines on the ordinary waiting lists of some local self-governments succeed with the additional lease of health checks at least a little help for their citizens. So there's a million things that these units of local self-government could use that money, they could use it like this. This law will have to be set aside for political parties. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132902	We're moving on to the 120th Amendment of Honored colleague Nikola Grumoje, please welcome your colleague, Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132903	So, here, we talked about how to increase the amount from 1.5 million kuna to 4 million kuna for the election promotion for European elections, but it's not the only change in this law that fills a party bag. Here is our amendment, which aims to stop Zagreb from determining the municipal and city councils here what will be the amount of compensation for political work for political parties. We in Metkovic abolished the council fees, we abolished the vice president's fees or we reduced it to 1,00 kn, the deputy mayor's, I gave up, so the amount because we abolished the amount of 70.000,00 kn, my colleague, then Deputy Mayor Metkovic's deputy over 300,000,00 kn because it was a longer deputy. In Vrgorec, colleague Pranic reduced the fee for political work to 1,00 kn and now you're raising it and determining the amount, why? Who has the most municipal and city councilors on the level of the Republic of Croatia? HDZ and again, so, you're filling your party bag with this proposal and you've been left to the secretary of state of all, I'm sorry, so in this way, Andrej Plenkovic and his current in HDZ relations with the vice president, means, HS, meaning, to the Croatian defender who is now at the mercy, who has to sit there right now and be in one awkward position and you and he, meaning, defend this difficult position, means, where you turn out to be like those who are fighting for party money and still obstructing the referendum and there's no one here to be with you, there's no one from HDZ, you're left for mercy and mercy and I have to say that I'm sorry for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132904	Thank you. I hope my colleague Grumoja defends me like this and the one who replaces me at 23, who is even more ruthless than I am. We move to the 121st Amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, please show the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132905	Dear Vice-President HS, Amendment No. 121 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132906	Thank you, thank you, it becomes an integral part of the law. We are moving to the 122nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I would ask the Secretary of State to show itself about amendments 122 to 133, since they are identical content, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132907	Thank you. Amendments from 122 to 133 shall not be accepted for reasons as it facilitates financial operations and reduces the obligations of independent representatives and independent council members who have become members of the political party participating in HS or the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government and reduces the number of supervisory entities contributing to more effective supervision, while retaining the same standards of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132908	Thank you. In the name of the club, dear colleague of the Podolnjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132909	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. We ask our amendment to be in the article. 7 Deletes paragraph 4. In this proposed article, the Government of the Republic of Croatia suggests that if an independent representative or independent council member becomes a member of the political party participating in the work of HS or a representative body, then the means for political work that he gained through the election as an independent representative or council member is transferred to that political party that he became a member. This opens up the possibility of political corruption because the money that was received by an independent representative or councilman, as such elected, will be transferred during the term of office to a political party that he is a member of although the political party, to say simplistic, has not earned in the vote based on the votes it has received from citizens. Today, there are hundreds of independent councilors in the Republic of Croatia in many local self-government. This means opening up a big space for political corruption because so far we have not had the opportunity and that was good, so that money can be transferred during the term of office from one entity, an independent representative or councilman, a new entity, to a political party that has become a member. And that's why we're against that solution and we're looking for the vote on the amendment to delete it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132910	We're moving on to the 123rd amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132911	Lex shushka. This law that we're trying to make here is essentially opposed to the adoption of this law. I was counting on this law to be the strongest coalition partner of yours, Vice-President Miljana Brkić, Milorad Pupovac, who is otherwise a representative of human rights, who even knew how to insult parliamentary representatives from the MOST Club and that he would protect decentralisation, that he would protect, in essence, the referendum, civil rights, civil liberties when the police enter the press, but we see that your coalition partner, respected secretary, Milorad Pupovac, is no longer here to defend you, no longer here the Istanbul Convention, respected by the chief minister of praise, Jesus, Lovro Kushevic. He left you here as a lady alone that, not even the vice president of the knight of Jerusalem's grave Mr. Rainer didn't remember that you... rather than Mr. Miljan Brkic, which is also positive that you sit there while we explain these amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for the Istanbul Convention, so much for the credibility of Lovra Kuščević, the graver of the referendum, one man, in essence, who implements what Andrej Plenkovic wrote to him, invented by Tomislav Karamarko or Miljan Brkić, now who invented it I don't know exactly, but this man is working systematically against the interests of the people. I would once again ask the most respected secretary, as mentioned earlier, to withdraw this law, to preserve the cheek that she had, which in the Dalmatian Zagora, you are still from my area, you know that they are down there, just exploiting us for their votes, withdraw this law, save that kind of pride that they took from you when they left you alone as the Trident, so That you may at least be worthy [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I demand a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132912	We are moving on to the 124th Amendment of Honored Representative Robert Podlonjak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132913	Dear Mr. Vice President of HS. As I said in connection with this amendment, the fundamental principle which the legislator stated in the article. 6th of this proposal, it says, the right to regularly fund the state budget has political parties who, according to the final results of the elections, have been given a seat in HS and independent representatives, and it repeats that for funding from local self-government. Therefore, political parties have the right to receive a number of seats according to the final results of the elections. This fundamental principle that political parties have the right to money from the budget based on the number of votes, thus getting seats, is currently being violated in this article. 7. Because it allows this money to be significantly larger. Simply, if you received, for example, 3 council members in a local self-government representative's body and if an independent councilman approaches a political party, the political party will, instead of 3 council members, receive money in the elections, and for the 4th party who approached it, but the citizens did not vote for that political party to have 4 council members and to get additional political money for it. And that is why it is not right and is opposed to the fundamental principle of art. 6, that extra money is paid and that some independent council members can be motivated to approach a political stop and therefore ask for a vote on amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132914	I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. Thank you very much for taking care of the weather. We are moving on to 125 amendments from respected counterpart Hrvojo Runtic, please welcome fellow Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132915	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, in art. 7. Delete paragraph 4. I'm going to read that argument out loud, what just to myself once again raise that disgust towards the whole story, which is basically by me, a pure step, in something that I call the transformation of democracy into... He says this, the proposer believes that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should only be given to those political parties, who, according to the final results of the elections, have been given the parliamentary seat, i.e. the representative body of the unit of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so it's a principled art. Proposal 6 of the Law. Therefore, we do not accept that money for regular annual financing can be transferred from an independent representative, councilman, after the election to political parties who did not earn that money on the basis of an election result, and there is the possibility of political corruption. But it's kind of what everyday seems to me and we live in it every day, it's not even news anymore. It seems to me that the news that is being published on Croatian portals, which are trying to have every day, as much as in such a way as to formulate titles, news, attract as many clicks as possible, that even such news is no longer as interesting. Now we're somehow entering this kind of period, in which more will dominate this news about this Love is in the country, etc. These things, however, I again draw attention to the fact that Croatia is a country where GDP wars and poverty grows parallelly and I ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132916	I thank my colleague Runtic, we are moving on to the 126th amendment of the respected colleague Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132917	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state, so I think it's worth 12 times or as many times as I repeat this amendment because it really is an outrageously resolved one, therefore, which opens up a single political stock exchange, because so far transfers, in which they are independent, different, therefore, politicians, elected to the state parliament, have, of course, left money in the context of the organisation, i.e. the lists in which they are elected, which is quite fair. And now they will bring as a dowry, therefore, that chieftain in which all the taxpayers of this country pay. This means that political trade, corruption, is, in fact, becoming completely legitimate and very well charged. And I think that, here, I would invite citizens to think about what this law offers. That it is not a good political disinterest in this House, that all these legal articles are very much about our political future and that this fight is ultimately worth it, because I think that interest in these issues must bear fruit. Because in this way our country is collapsing in every way, politically, socially, socially, demographically, and not a bright future, therefore, we will seek a vote under this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132918	I thank my dear colleague Dobrovic, we are moving on to the 128th amendment, as there is no colleague, Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, please welcome fellow Members.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132919	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. In this amendment, Art. 7. paragraph 4 is deleted; we believe that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should only have those political parties, which, according to the final results of the elections, have been given a seat in the Assembly, i.e. the representative body of the unit of local self-government. And so it's a principled art. It's the sixth proposal of the law. Therefore, we do not accept that money for regular annual funding can be transferred from independent representatives, or councilman after the election to political parties, which did not earn that money from the basis of the election result, and there is also the possibility of political corruption. We also believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be part of an integral part of the basic legal text, which regulates the problem of the referendum. In addition to this, as a proposing, we believe that in the proposed law, the problem of funding referendum activities is not high-quality norms, because it regulates only civil initiatives that trigger the referendum, but does not regulate those entities, which will run an anti-referendum campaign, nor regulates the rights and obligations, i.e. restrictions on state bodies in the referendum campaign. We will ask for a statement on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132920	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move to the 129th Amendment, a respected fellow vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. God Petrov, here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132921	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I suppose there's no point in asking you to give up this law, if you're ready today here... In this hour, I suppose you'll welcome us in the morning, but, no problem, we'll wait for the morning, but I'll remind you, so with this law, it's not just a matter of this amendment where you in any way do not want to acknowledge the opinion of the citizens and the attitude of the citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What may be more important than what you want for yourself for a few million kunas while people are on the verge of poverty are giving themselves more spending so that you can talk about Podkin's villages while Croatia is devastated, the huge problem is this part of the part that you're working on the referendum and I won't stop talking about it. Instead of allowing the citizens to vote e-voting, to show that you really respect the will of people living in Croatia today, not even if you have not listened to the EU directive you swear on but are going to try to limit the possibility of a referendum, give them reports as if they were political parties in any way to defuse any effort to hear the voice of the people, you are choking in any way that you can, and by this law, you want to push a little more funding for your villages. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132922	I thank my colleague Petrov. We move on to the 130th Amendment of Honored Representative Sonja Cikotic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132923	Your Honor, this law, which today in our benches or amendments that we have brought to this Law on the financing of political activities, electoral promotions and referendums, has actually defined the increase in finances for political action, the difficulty of referendum activity, imposed a strong organisation and certain administrative barriers for referendum activities. He also provided for minimum fees to be provided to representatives in representative bodies, at regional, local level, and also made sure that this part that we have proposed through this amendment would not be missed by chance, in order to actually delete, to erase the fact that after the election of the money that has been won by the elected representative by the legitimate elections, it can actually be traded later. So we're witnesses to political trade, we've been stolen from parliamentary democracy in this House, MPs elected on certain lists in this House, and they've been walking around the club, which is the number of just a few MPs, has come up with a two-digit number. But that is why we have also proposed to delete this article because instead of dealing with how to actually make as many citizens aware of their responsibility for society as much as possible for tomorrow, you are dealing with how to get as much money for political action as possible. In this country there was no money for the E-impulse either, there was no money for the greater birth of compensation, there was no money for the schools heating up on solid fuel, 25% of the district schools are heating up on solid fuels, but for political action it must be, and that is why you are passing this law. Please vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132924	I thank my colleague Chikotic. We're moving on to our 131st respected colleague, Mark Sladolev, here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'm not surprised that the secretary of state accepted before our CNS amendment, their faces and heads are already on jumbo posters, so that's understandable. On the other hand, I find this article of the law scandalous and consider it an open hunt for independent representatives both in local self-government bodies and in the Croatian Parliament. So I believe that the chips in both the Croatian Parliament and the local self-government and the representative bodies will always be, that not all MOST but not fair and opens up a great opportunity for a corrupt shop, so some independent representative who won the mandate, so by his popularity, by his work, is that at the moment he cheated on his voters, so that the money he actually gets from the state budget or local self-government, it goes to the party that money he moved to. Just to point out that a political trade has been agreed in the city of Zagreb and in the election of the budget, that Sandra Švaljeg had an independent list, that the independent list has fallen apart by all the stitches and that they have moved to Milan Bandić's party and by this current law of yours, so Milan Bandić's party would receive money from the city budget, in the National Budget Assembly, and I believe that this amendment is correct and anti-corruption, but I know that you will not accept it, but we will still ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132926	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. We are moving on to 132nd Amendment of Honored Representatives of Ines Strenja, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132927	Thank you. So we wanted to say again this amendment that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should only be given to those political parties who, according to the final results of the elections, received a seat in the Assembly or representative body of the units of local self-government and, in principle, to Article 6 of the Law proposal. Therefore, we do not accept that money for regular annual funding can be transferred from independent council representatives after the elections in political parties that did not earn that money from the basis of the election result. Of course, what's the biggest problem, that's the problem that opens up and that's political corruption. There are several hundred currently independent MPs in the Republic of Croatia, and it is quite clear what will happen after the adoption of such a bill. We are here tonight ready to fight our amendments, to fight the message from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that something like this is unacceptable, that the way you treat the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so you completely needlessly put money into your political campaign to get and have an even brighter result in European elections, we will prove that it is worth fighting for this country and once again we will ask ourselves in fact where are today all the other opposition parliamentary deputies who so often and publicly declare the story and support the referendum initiatives. This is a law that will touch every citizen of our country because the money that will be used and which will actually be transferred to political parties could be used to improve the status of those who are the most vulnerable parts of our population and these are both children and persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132928	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ines Strenja. We're moving on to 133 amendments to our esteemed colleague, Nikola Grumoje. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132929	Dear Vice President, here's the whole of Croatia watching our football team, here you keep saying you don't want to interrupt the session, we can continue tomorrow, we can do it next week, we can do it on Saturday if so is the wish of HDZ and President Gordan Jandrokovic, who has set you up here to defend this and which you all in HDZ must listen to. We see that Minister Žalac, too, seems to have slipped, has now been a question to the prime minister about whether Minister Žalac remains in place, has not responded, and it is interesting that this happens after President-in-Office's comment, so you can do what you want, but no, at any cost, it means that you will succeed in passing this law before the president disbands, or calling the elections, means you are resilient in it and you do not want to give up. So you're defending that party money, the party register, here comes the lady, I don't know what she's doing at the Ministry of Management, the minister's gone, the two women are sent here so they sit there all the time and Lovre Kuštević, the big reformer is gone. So the man who referred this law to the procedure, which means the secretary of HDZ, means he's not here to defend the party register but the two women are here in this place and they have to sit there, here's Mrs. Roman, I don't know how many hours, and I'm sorry and our two colleagues who are here, but they're determined to stay, three colleagues who are determined to stay and fight means that at least we send a message that you won't do as you wish. And that there is someone who will resist you in this Croatia, and so it just went with your hand to push this through but to send a message to people that there are those who fight. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132930	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. I would like to interrupt the session, or set up a party, but you said earlier that we must work because Croatian citizens chose us at night and other days if we should, so my God, let's go work then. ... So here I am respecting your attitudes and your thinking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I thought I'd set up a break, but since you asked for it, we're moving on with our work. We move to the 134th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. I would ask the Secretary of State to take note of the proposed amendments from the 134th amendment to the 145th amendment, since the amendments are identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132931	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the promoters, we are aware of amendments 134 to 145, the same amendments are not accepted for reasons as they facilitate financial operations and reduce the obligations of independent representatives and independent council members who have become members of a political party that participates in the Croatian Parliament or in the representative body of the units of local and regional self-government and reduces the number of supervisory entities, which contributes to more effective supervision and while retaining the same standards of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132932	I thank the secretary of state. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST esteemed colleague Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132933	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what you've heard about the provision and to repeat that the citizens understand why we're against this provision. Namely, she says that an independent representative, or councilman, will be required to close his own account within 60 days of the date of entry, from the date of entry into the political party's membership, which he had as an independent and the remaining funds from that account to be paid to the political party whose member he became. And to return to what counterpart Dobrovic just said that the best expression for this is dowry, that is dowry, the remaining funds from an account that he had as an independent representative or councilman will close and all funds will be paid at the expense of a political party whose member he became. So far, we have not had such a provision for decades of Croatian democracy, but in 2019, under the exception of modernising party financing law and electoral promotion, such a provision is now put into law that will really stimulate political corruption and where independent councilors will be persuaded, move to our political party, by the way, you will, of course, pass on the money and we will already make it up to you somehow. That is why it is absolutely persistent and possible and likely source of political corruption because we have not had such a provision so far which would motivate the parties to recruit independent councilors because they would receive their money. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132934	Thank you. We're moving on to the 135th Amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132935	Thank you very much, by your conduct and by your law you are a myth about Plato's cave, about a state described as a myth that has turned unfortunately into reality. The people must open their eyes that you have put shackles around their necks in a dark cave, and you have turned them toward the wall, and sometimes if the light shines, they run back into the darkness, because that is the light of the ancestors. What you're doing to our people, and the people have to listen to this, I'm sorry that this isn't transmitted to our media because this is still a tall home, it's game time, of course. In the darkness ye have sent a people without a breath, there is no light, there is no hope, and what the light of the people draws away from it. Why? Is that how much you have manipulated this people, exposed them? With this law that does nothing good to the people, which you defend to the distinguished secretaries because you have to, you are aware that this is a bad law that suits your political option, a party oligarchy that wants absolute monopoly on Croatian peoples, peoples and on resources, as well as on people themselves. And that's why we have demographic consequences. There's no light at the end of the cave. So I call upon the people if anyone listens, if they have more power to listen in this cave without light, the bar of light, to turn together with a referendum and on an election, democratic path, do not support those who destroy our children's future. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132936	Thank you, we're moving on to the 136th Amendment of Honored colleague Robert Dolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132937	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, there is still the possibility that the motionor will give up this proposal, because we have already indicated that a legal provision is being added which we have never had before in the laws governing the financing of political parties, independent MPs and councilors all this time, and now on a small door under the pretext that we are embezzling provisions that will undoubtedly stimulate political corruption. And so far, we have had a large number of independent councilors who in certain municipalities, cities or counties have switched to political parties and, of course, it was something that voters absolutely did not accept, because that is not what their original decision in the elections is and for us only what voters originally decided in the elections is only fair. Those votes given to individual candidates and political parties should only be relevant. Every fee measured in the representative body, in this Croatian Parliament, and never again in this mandate or in any representative body of local self-government, any legal provision that potentials political corruption is absolutely unacceptable and believe this will be safely written outside the Republic of Croatia that we have installed or that you want to install a provision that is the source of such corruption. And that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment, and we expect you to give up on it anyway, give up the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132938	Thank you. We are moving on to 137th Amendment of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132939	I thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, there are two words in the Croatian dictionary one is a predator, another is a kidnapper, who could now somehow sum up what we're talking about. Today news published on a portal that I don't normally like, as usual, portals, but says this: "The Ministry of Scissors of the Split Center for Autism and left them with no money for food and transportation," means there's no money for this kind of thing, but for jumbo posters and TV ads, the parties have money. I am the attitude that citizens should be first and political parties about the last. Now, why is it that, why is this predator, the kidnapper, there's one thing that's not too much to talk about, and when someone starts talking about it, then in the media, they start showing it systematically as a regular. Croatia is a country that has been led to this, tasked with having to pay around 20 billion dollars annually only interest. So every year we pay 20 billion, and we don't cut the capital, we owe 20 billion interest forever. In the 10 years of 200 billion, in the 50 years of 1,000 billion kunas created by this nation creating new values, it sucked itself out of this country. It's the life force of the people, the people who live in this country, who produce something, who give up, who have low wages, who connect with the end, and that's why there's no money, and that's why it's now this robbery and kidnapping. And please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132940	Thank you. We are moving on to the 138th amendment of the respected colleague Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132941	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honored Representative of the Ministry. So, a few months ago, we were close to making Croatia a step, two forwards in terms of democratic quality, and a referendum is being called to significantly improve the electoral law. However, inaccuracy, dishonesty, or something else has led to a referendum one and the other being rejected and now we have a law to make, here are a large number of amendments, including this provision. So a provision that is nothing more than legalising political corruption, so now it really pays to hunt independents because that, apart from the vote, means money. And what it is, rather than two steps back in democracy, democracy does not, therefore, it is a partothocracy that we systematically cherish all these years and which, I am convinced, chokes the development of this country with great potential and here, our all tendencies, our charts are not good, but in this way will seem to be getting worse because what the citizens need to create today, which need to grow family and business, is their reaction to make it better for them somewhere else, sad for us. Please vote on this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132942	I thank my colleague Dobrovic. We are moving on to the 140th Amendment, the future colleagues of Ante Pranic are gone, the respected representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132943	Dear Vice-President HS, Honored Secretary of State, Art. 7. Paragraph 5 is deleted because we believe that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should only be given to those political parties who, according to the final results of the elections, have been given a seat in HS or the representative body of the unit of local self-government, and so is the principled art. It's the sixth proposal of the law. Therefore, we do not accept that money for regular annual funding can be transferred from independent representatives or councilors after the election to political parties who have not earned this money on the basis of the election result, and there is also the possibility of political corruption. We also believe that the text of the law should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. In addition to the above, we consider that in the proposed law, the problem of funding referendum activities is not high-quality because it regulates only citizens' initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign, nor regulates the rights and obligations or restrictions of state bodies in the referendum campaign. We're looking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132944	Thank you. We are moving on to the 141st amendment of the esteemed colleague and vice president of HS God Petrova, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132945	Dear Vice-President HS, the respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs, how much is increased by political parties with this law, how much will you profit, 3.4 million kuna? You have time for that, you have time for that, and now you're sitting down. How many days, months, years already in the procedure in HS stands the Law on the Declaration of an exclusively economic belt? How much would the Republic of Croatia get financially for an exclusive economic belt, tens of millions, but you don't care about that because the exclusive economic belt is not HDZ. The exclusive economic belts may be fishermen, they may be some other people in the Republic of Croatia, but not all HDZ, and then it's more important in the night to discuss the law that will bring you 3 or 4 million kuna, and for years you can't find time to discuss the exclusive economic belt that will bring you tens of millions, not to you, to the state. That's why it's interesting for you to rank the first party, then the state. It's a shame because then you'll have to find some new emblem on your chest to know that you're swearing when you play an anthem on a membership card, not a state, because if it were up to the state, tonight we'd be discussing an exclusive economic belt, for example, tonight we'd be discussing the Executive Act, tonight we'd be discussing 50 other laws that are rotting in protocol, in the HS procedure, we wouldn't be discussing yours. Three, four million kunas. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132946	I thank my esteemed colleague, Petrov. We are going to the 142nd amendment of the esteemed colleague Sonja Cikotic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132947	Thank you. This amendment refers, in fact, to the fact that we have proposed that this leverage that is provided for through this article is deleted because, in fact, from your reasoning that you have made in the final draft of the law, it is in this way that you want to regulate the obligations of these independent MPs, to reduce their administration, that they actually become members of a particular party in which the club has passed, and that we believe that it is in fact legalisation or decriminalisation of certain criminal acts such as trading in political influence. Instead of discovering some new types of democracy, instead of providing new tools for democracy and implementation such as e-voting because the growing number of young people is on social networks, the Internet is available to us, it would certainly be decided, you don't actually use this tool, you don't modernize this law, you are actually politicalally creating levers to order only one thing, in the Croatian budget there can and there won't have to be money for the development of economic policies, for the development of social, health, for the development of those educational Croatian, but for the action of political parties, it will be. Because this law just provides all the mechanisms for it to be. Today is a special day, and this is the day of the children when children's day is marked for Down syndrome. So today you choose and talk about yourself. You're talking about yourself, and I must remind myself that this law is a very harmful law, amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools just passed in one euphoria, the same way that Croatia played so that as little public as possible, but I'm sure the citizens He'll give his judgment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132948	We are moving on to the 143rd Amendment of Honored Representative Mark Sladoliev. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And how perverse, I must say, is this idea of abolishing and limiting the referendum, says the fact that Croatia has, therefore, chosen in some way the Homeland War and the independence of a referendum, which is a referendum on secession from the former state. So, it was created, in some way by the plebiscite will of the Croatian people in the referendum and now that same form of decision-making, which we have chosen our independence with, means in some ways we are dodging the people who voted to secede from the former state, is no longer good because they require some other things. It requires a referendum on the euro, demands a referendum on the Electoral Law, therefore, in which there is nothing bad, in which it is actually abolished in some way, the political elite and their authority because the number of parliamentary representatives, which increases the turnout of young people in the elections by electronic vote, we know that we have the smallest youth turnout in all of Europe, which in some way sends a message to the Croatian public, are not the most important here. The most important is the people, and now this initiative, that is, this law, wants to undo it all. This law also limits local referendums, referendums on the replacement of mayors, which, of course, is even more entrenched by lex sheriffs. Here, in my neighborhood, so I worked at school, now that school works in three shifts, the mayor introduced us to parking and we almost don't have the tools to replace it. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132950	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev. We are moving on to the 144th Amendment of Honored colleague Ines Strenja. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So also in this late-night fight and hours and struggle to hear the voice of those who are persistently fighting for the citizens' referendum and against increasing the amount that HDZ will use in its political election race for the EU Parliament, I think we are sending, meaning by our efforts tonight and tonight, we send a clear message that some things are absolutely unacceptable and that some things really need to be fought for, even in a way that you may vote us tomorrow. And this amendment that I really want to talk about is the amendment that we felt that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should only have those political parties who, according to the final results of the elections, received a representative seat in the Assembly, i.e. the representative body of the units of local self-government, and so is the principled article. Six draft laws. Therefore, we do not accept that money for regular annual funding can be transferred from independent representatives after the election of political parties, which did not earn that money by the basis of the election result, and there is the possibility of political corruption. So, a hundred independent MPs and more actually, as far as we have in Croatia don't deserve to actually encourage their money by entering a political party to drown and we're actually sending a message that the election result, thus not responding to why the citizens voted. But you have learned that the electoral wish of citizens very often succeed in modeling according to your wishes, as you have succeeded in one part of the MPs who did not want to stay in their old parties, to gather their hands, to invite them even now. You have enough majority to vote this vote [[Intruder: Thank you.]] on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132952	We're moving on to the 145th Amendment of Honored colleague Nikola Grumoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132953	Thank you, Vice President. It's clear that, I think it's very uncomfortable for both you and the secretary of state and Mrs. who came here because the message wasn't good. That we are here to discuss, here, as counterpart Petrov said, the declaration of an exclusively economic belt that has been in the process for more than a year and a half does not come on the agenda. Probably because of Tajani and the like. who, together with HDZ, are friends of Andrej Plenkovic in the European regiment, participated in the HDZ campaign. So it's probably because of them we can't discuss it. We are also not discussing amendments to the Election Law that MOST sent over a year ago, we are not discussing the Microsolars Act, which would have made each household energy independent because it would have allowed our poor families to, for example. County money for heating, I don't know, is a yearly amount by county, of several hundred million kunas or more, and these funds are invested for example. in the construction of microsolars, which our law allows. And that we don't give people heating aid every year but once we install microsolaries and they're energy independent, electricity consumption decreases, it's much better for our homeland, which is one of the main economic branches of tourism. No, that's not to be discussed, but when it comes to increasing the party budget, then we will if it means going to the end. But the worst part is not all HDZ deputies are there to fight for the party bag, but they have sent Joseph Rimac, and she has to sit there now, defend it, there is no Minister Kustević, if he wants to sit there, if he wants to deepen the party's register. So I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132954	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We move to the 146th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I ask the Secretary of State to show himself to us about the proposal for an amendment of the rb. 146 to rb. 157, since amendments are identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132955	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the legislator of this law, we note amendments from 146 to 157 which are not accepted for reasons of facilitating financial business and reducing the obligations of independent representatives and independent council members who have become members of a political party that participates in the Croatian Parliament or in the representative body of the units of local and regional self-government. And the number of surveillance entities is reduced which contributes to more effective supervision and with the retention of the same standards of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132956	I thank the secretary of state. On behalf of the MOST Club, dear colleague Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132957	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, the legislator literally meant every possible situation. In this provision that we're asking for by amendment to be deleted, you've predicted even the next situation. So if an independent representative or councilor gives up funding from the budget what he can do, so if they give up on that funding, then move on, you predict that for this financial year, political parties cannot identify his financial assets that he has received but since the next financial year, regardless of what he has disowned the funds will be made known to the political party. So, regardless of the council's decision to waive these funds afterwards, the political party will still make the money in the next financial year. And indeed, when this law is thus developed to end the money in any case in that political party he approached, then you really see that the motionary, the Government, really meant everything about how to secure that money of independent councilors. And for this reason, we asked the amendment to delete this provision and again point to all the potential of political corruption that will simply stimulate not only in local self-government but also in the Croatian Parliament if we have independent representatives and therefore ask for a vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132958	Thank you. We're moving on to the 147th Amendment, the esteemed colleague of Mira Bulja. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132959	Thank you very much. Well, of course, it's normal for the Croatian state to be a coalition partner in local self-government units like in one local unit, self-government was here today, a Chetnic sniper who killed our people, it's perfectly normal for him to be a coalition partner of HDZ. And that's why here most, that's what the people should have heard, people who are national minorities and, above all, Milorad Pupovac, who is representing himself here as the greatest protector of all human rights, and basically in this way that avoids this debate, which does not come to this debate, which doesn't protect says that he protects his rights because he's not an opposition, he's part of the majority in the Republic. He's together, there's no more Josepha Rimac, there's a lady left, I'm sorry I don't know her name or name, Lovro Kuščević doesn't show up, just...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132960	State Secretary Mrs Katica Prpić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132961	And I'm glad, can you repeat that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132962	Katica Prpić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132963	I welcome you, Mrs Prpić, the secretary of state, and here you are now exposed by Minister Kuščević, perhaps neither guilty nor due, but here he has brought you into an awkward situation, I suppose by the basis of the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, so he did not have the courage to send you, because he will not know how he feels, perhaps male or female, perhaps he has not yet established the foundation of this Convention. And I repeat again, if we have any possibility in the Republic of Croatia, it is the right of a referendum and this law to interfere with political parties, financing it is a disaster. If Vujičić can say that the euro will be introduced, the man who struck on the Croatian monetary system, the biggest blow struck by giving creditors to Agrokor without cover, i.e. No cover guidelines, then we know where we are. The referendum is a basic tool. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132964	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. We're moving on to the 148th Amendment of Honored colleague Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132965	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As we pointed out in the debate on this article 7 which is extremely controversial to us because for the first time it appears in a law that finances council members, MPs and political parties from the budget of both state and local, it is possible that hundreds of MPs and council members, by changing their status from independent to political party membership, will also transfer the political money that belongs to them under the provisions of this law, and that it is important to note that according to the provisions that they propose it will often not be minimum amounts or symbolic amounts that they can be today, if local self-government so decides, it will be significantly greater because this law now provides for a significant financing of political parties and minimum amounts in each municipality, city and county. It is therefore no longer a matter of insignificant transfer of financial resources. In certain situations, there may be significant financial amounts received by independent representatives or councilors, which would be transferred to the political party that he has become a member based on this legal provision. And so, I don't know which times we point to a negative potential that will certainly prove very quickly in practice already in this mandate and local self-government when this law is unfortunately passed. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132966	Thank you. We move on to the 149th Amendment of Honored Fellow Hrvoja Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132967	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. This amendment in Article 7 shall be deleted. I have one question like this, especially when things like this are in play, but it's a question that I'm actually asking myself every day, and that's where Mark's hill here is missing this thing called human dignity. So he's going back to that money again, if you're raising from a mile to a half to four miles, that means you've got extra in fact. Here's the last time I explained the amendment I mentioned this article from some portal, so for a center for autism no, and there's obviously a surplus here, I think it would be so some logic elementary saying, if you want to spend 4 million, and now the law allows you a million and a half, so you have 2.5 million of what to spend. And now you need to adapt the law so you can spend it legally. But I have a proposal, if you have 2.5 million kunas and all parties that have 2.5 million kunas extra for these promotional activities, so donate to humanitarian purposes, there's so much going on in Croatia every 15 minutes, some kind of concert where citizens have to call some poor and half-poor citizens have to call some phone numbers and donate money to other citizens who can't afford treatment or something like that that the state should care about. And as for the amendments, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132968	Thank you. We are moving on to the 150th Amendment of Honored colleague Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132969	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Assembly, dear secretary of state. So, we could say about the previous amendment, and not all, is not all because there are other interesting articles, like this in Article 7 where we heard ourselves as Professor. For the first time in the law, the underling introduces a provision whereby, even if the person has given up the fee, the political page in which this person has been transferred is allowed to take over, thus, to apply for the principal. So it's all about ensuring a comfortable, safe life, so a political caste that is increasingly lush and that lives more and more well, and a working people who must provide products and services from which to draw resources for the survival of our country at all, who asks them. In fact, who is asking them if they will be at all and it is truly incomprehensible that these articles are being prepared with such ferocity, that such care should therefore be given to the parties, so to the party all things, and to the people as it is. We really don't need to be surprised, I don't know how to imagine, say, a demographic strategy, how it's possible to implement one strategy when such provisions undo many possible measures. They cancel out because people are just losing, losing hope that anything can be expected in this country. I'm going to beg of course to vote on this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132970	Thank you. We are moving on to the 152nd amendment since our colleagues, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, are not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132971	The Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Secretary of State, in this amendment, says that Article 7 of Article 6 is deleted, we believe that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should be subject to those political parties who, according to the final results of the elections, received a representative seat in the assembly or representative body of the unit of local self-government, thus in principle and regulated Article 6 of the Law. Therefore, we do not accept that money for regular annual funding can be transferred from independent representatives or councilors after the election of political parties that did not earn that money from the basis of the election result, and there is also the possibility of political corruption. We also believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. In addition to this, I believe that in the proposed law, the problem of funding referendum activities is not high-quality because it regulates only civil initiatives that initiate the referendum but does not regulate those entities that will run an anti-referendum campaign nor regulates the rights and obligations or restrictions of the government and the Croatian Parliament in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-consultation, will also be introduced by the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives, confirmed by Minister Lovro Kuščević himself. In this way, pro-tourendum initiatives should be institutionalised, i.e. Register, report to your representative and by the logic of things, such pro-tourendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign and it is only justified to regulate the funding of referendum and pro-tourendum initiatives at the same time in one law. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132972	Thank you. We move on to the 153rd Amendment of the Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament of fellow Members of the Republic of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132973	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is the first in a series of laws the government wants to pass which it wants to introduce a new Croatian silence. I'll read you a text, I wonder if it'll ring your bell. However, the need, ducks and inescapable necessity for both quiet Croatia to speak because of internal and global movements, has been hampered by daunting obstacles to special Croatian circumstances. In Croatia, they still feel the tragic consequences of the non-democratic asphyxiation of the rebirth of the national-democratic movement that was waved in Croatia, and this reformist movement as it appeared in other socialist countries before and after, was brutally broken, although it was driven by the dogmatic hegemonist forces, but not just by the silent consent of many who today, in other republics, waved liberal ideas. Is the text ringing? Does the text on the impatience of Croatian silence ring? This is the text written by the creator of this vehicle you stole 30 years ago, in 1989 by your creator Franjo Tudjman. You can identify yourself in it but not as those who follow his ideas but as those against whom he spoke. Liberal ideas are best witnessed by your Prime Minister who swears to the dogmatic values of Brussels and Brussels' fathers. What would Franjo Tudjman say if he could get out of the grave to what you're doing to him today with the party? Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132974	I thank you for moving on to the 154th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132975	Thank you. This amendment has been tabled in a way that, in fact, the provision of Article 7(6) of that article is deleted because when we take and look at your text of this law and write the questions that this law is being addressed, it is now that you are actually very concerned about these independent MPs. It is your final proposal for the law that you propose to establish that independent representatives and independent councilors may waive the right to finance from the budget and that those who have waived the rights to their political activity are not financed from other legal resources, nor are they obliged to open a special account for regular annual financing. So you haven't simplified some of the things that independent MPs have to do because it's not really in your best interest to have independent lists happen, it's not in your best interest that independent, free individuals join political struggles because they carry their name and last name and that capital politically that they have as honest, brave and bold people. But what else have you overlooked? You explain here that once the reason why, if this independent representative becomes a member of a particular political party, you say that you are actually doing it to reduce, says the number of surveillance entities has decreased, contributing to effective supervision in retaining the same standards of transparency because you say they would facilitate financial business and reduce the obligations of independent representatives and councilors. So you can do it in a way that you really reduce them by this bill because you can't expect independent councilmen and independent parliamentary deputies to actually have all that machinery that political parties have. So it's not in your interest for independent lists to appear, please vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132976	Thank you. We're moving on to the 155th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is interesting that this law regulates the donation of parties and has not yet succeeded in the existence of a donation to the humanitarian donation of the school in its 20 years. So I'm a participant of 6 humanitarian actions in my school where we made a kitchen in Africa, then we equipped the school with IT equipment, so we donated to the Love Association is in an act that takes care of children with malignant diseases and every time we did that, we were on the verge of the law because the law didn't arrange donations to elementary school and stuff. Our 20-year law didn't arrange for trade chains to donate food to poor citizens that is ahead of the end of the term and which is being thrown but which is why we've arranged but that's why we've arranged donations to political parties. So the phenomenal message to our citizens, so the parties are the most important, schools aren't important, poor citizens aren't important, they can't be regulated legally, you have to be on the verge, they're sending you inspections, so we've been inspected a couple of times, when we're selling cookies, then they're sending us sanitary inspections because it's like something bad, so one message is being sent all the time, the party is the most important, the rest is irrelevant. And I repeat again, therefore, the bridge of independent lists, if necessary, will all night long fight and send messages like this where Croatian citizens deserve the truth, deserve to be talked about. Here we are all the time if I have to and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132978	Thank you. We're moving on to 156 amendments, dear colleagues of Ines Strenja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132979	Thank you. And once again, in fact, if it is not our intention to obstruct this law, it is our intention to send messages to us tonight and tonight that we are fighting and, as you see, the only one in the House, we are fighting for a referendum of citizens and against increasing the amount of HDZ and political parties for their election promotion. And once again, I'm going to read our argument in art. 7. We ask that paragraph 6 be deleted, and we believe that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should only have those political parties, which, according to the final results of the elections, have been given a seat in the Assembly, i.e. the representative body, the unit of local self-government, and thus is governed in principle by this article. The law. Therefore, we do not accept that money for regular annual funding can be transferred from independent representatives after the election, to political parties who have not earned this money on the basis of an election result and there is the possibility of political corruption. We also know how you need to redeploy that money, that money needs to be transferred to those of whom you took it, and especially to transfer it to those who deserve to be cared for, because they are the most vulnerable parts of our society. That money can also be transferred into social care, because for the last two days, we've been sending back messages, having a catastrophic situation in social care, that 7,000 employees care for half a million of our citizens who need social care, that they're missing 2,000 and only missing because there's no money. Thousands and thousands of places where this money, taken from citizens, could be used, but of course, you will by force pass a law, which will give an additional 2.5 million more to HDZ in order to have an even nicer and brighter campaign for the European Parliament, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132980	We're moving on to 157 amendments to our esteemed colleague, Nikola Grumoje, here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132981	Thank you, Vice President. I think over here that you're a real man, so it's quite clear, if you're looking at this pace, a statement on amendments, it'll take about 1900 tomorrow and I think it'd be wise to withdraw this law, continue on a statement on the amendments tomorrow, I think that then we, too, can make some concessions or continue it next week. I think the HDZ of these 2.5 million kunas won't be much of a problem, now it's, I mean, more of an int. You will find ways to finance, i.e. how to resolve these 2.5 million kunas and how to finance this campaign for the EU elections, besides that you have stuck to these election promotions and the exact amount that the parties can spend on elections, your campaigns would be much more modest. We also see that your colleagues, coalition partners from the HNS, are already advertised by jumbo posters, it's not going into election promotion and it's not going to get into this million-and-a-half kuna, as much as it is in this law. So, here I can tell you, that we're not going to give up, there's going to be some other MPs, or, another two MPs who aren't there, one will come now, one will come in the morning, so we'll be in full composition. So this time of 19.00 hours will continue even longer. We do not intend to give up, and I think this intention to pass this law to secure those 2.5 million kunas, because I think it will cause you much more damage than you will get with those 2.5 million kunas, which you intend to promote. I demand a vote on this amendment of ours, and I also invite you to consider a follow-up session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132982	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji, to move on to the 158th Amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I call upon Honorable Secretary of State Katica Prpic to give us an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132983	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President, honourable parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives, the amendment under regular number 158 is accepted. In Article 8(6), the following paragraph 7 is added: to the deputy referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article who wishes to waive the right to regular annual funding from the national budget, i.e. the budget of the unit of local self-government, shall apply in an appropriate manner to the provisions of this Article.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132984	I thank this amendment becomes an integral part of the law. We're moving on to the 159th Amendment. I ask the Secretary of State to give us an indication of the proposed amendments, of the regular number 159.-170, since they are amendments of identical content, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132985	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer, amendments under R. No. of 159-170, they are not accepted, for a reason, because the establishment of an independent representative’s office, or an independent councilman, is intended as a possibility, not as an obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132986	Thank you. On behalf of the Bridge Club, dear colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132987	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. So, in this Article 5, you are again predicting a newspaper, after all the years, of political funding from the budget, you are now proposing that representatives who are independent and independent council members, be careful, can set up an office for the performance of administrative and professional affairs, and that they can hire people to do administrative and professional work, which means that they will be employers in relation to these employees. They will form an office, therefore, all these years, have been working for independent representatives, and here they have had conditions for their work, they have established clubs, so all administrative and professional jobs could therefore, work here in the Croatian Assembly as we can, who are representatives of one of the political parties, and here they are provided with all the conditions. You also have a Club of Independent Representatives, which can provide all professional and administrative conditions, also have the right to an employee who performs all these tasks. And that's a well-known fact. And now, I'm sorry, and now you're proposing to set up an office where they're going to hire people, and they're going to be employers. This is absolutely not good, for example, a similar practice that exists in the European Parliament has proved to be not good, because it was the employment of people who, for example, were even related to the representatives. You don't even put any fences you can hire, no, anyone. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132988	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dolnjak. We're moving on to the 160th Amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132989	Thank you very much. When we look at this Act, where the pears and apples were thought of, then I will mention one person who actually manages most of Croatia, which is the most important, that is the Croatian National Bank, that is Mr. Vujčić, who without any pardon, that man says we will introduce the EUR-o, we have the right to decide before with Zoran Milanović, because as he used to speak and speak to Miljan Brkić, chairman of the Brixelles-ki Zoka, or it is with Brixelles Plenki, Andrej, done or with Seks. Where does he come from so much power that he draws such power that we cannot, with a referendum, determine the people, even we cannot discuss it in the Parliament, and this man is one of the major pests in Croatian society, against which I raised a criminal report two years ago, because he threatened the financial and monetary stability of the Republic of Croatia. There are no former finance ministers who have also helped him because he was headed by the Financial Stability Council, and this man will decide on behalf of the Croatian people whether to be kuna or EURo, without any expert public debate, without a referendum, referendum issue, and I believe that the people will encourage this professional, civic initiative, this expert debate, however, you, too, are preventing it. You in this way not to wipe the referendum from the face of the country to the end, but to strengthen these people who manage everything, and not Croatia and the National Bank, to manage the entire system of the Republic of Croatia. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132990	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Since it is now 21 hours and 42 minutes, as you asked us to give a little break for the match of Croatia and Azerbaijan, I set a break until 23:00, when we continue to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132991	It's good, it's... God sent you, you're... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] SECURE Interrupted at 21.44 p.m. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132992	Resume session at 2300 hours. We're going to continue our work. Amendment 161 of Agent Robert Dolnjak, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132993	I thank Mr. President HS and good evening. In the amendment that we have also given on behalf of the Council Club, you have not heard that part of it refers to the Office of Independent Representatives or Independent Councilors where we have found that for the first time in the law governing political financing of parties, MPs and councillors, it offers the possibility of independent representatives and councillors to set up an Office for the Management of Administrative and Professional Affairs and that they can employ certain persons to carry out these tasks and actually appear as an employer. One single article regulates the possibility that actually independent councilors or MPs become employers without any other regulation and we have found that independent representatives, for example here in HS, have administrative and professional conditions for their work, have clubs, have staff working for them in administrative and professional terms, as it does for political parties' clubs. We see absolutely no excuse for them to form an office, pay employees, and, in fact, to come into the employer's position and therefore we asked that this Article be made. 15. deletes because it is an absolutely unnecessary newspaper that we have never had before, and that is why I ask that the amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132994	Let's go to Amendment 162. Representative Hrvoje Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132995	Thank you, Mr. President HS. This amendment says it does. 15. Delete, I must say that I find it interesting that today, or tonight, only in the Assembly, are, therefore, representatives of the club of independent lists, which is very interesting because when it comes to the question, it means that the statements or referendum statements of citizens, somehow I would say that here everyone in the nation is humbled, and now I understand that the rulings are not dear to these referendums, but I do not understand anything else about it because we always hear that they are calling on a citizen, to the people, to direct democracy, etc., but there is no one here, there is 10th, and we are the only one talking about something called a referendum statement of citizens and what is in principle a form of direct democracy, which is basically a lot of talk and please vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132996	163rd Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132997	Thank you, President-in-Office HS, I welcome the State Secretary once again, so this amendment has sought to go against the tendency that this entire legislative proposal is making, and this is a complicated, increasingly complex state, increasingly complex state apparatus, increasingly complex political officials who have protection and with regard to better promotion, therefore, more and more money is possible to spend on their marketing, are founded, therefore, offices, imposes, the need is imposed, therefore, where and not necessary. We heard before that and what happens when independent representatives come to the ranks of political parties. So, all of this together reflects one atmosphere of strengthening the state, strengthening the state apparatus, creating a situation in which only politicians and political caste have secured existence and future, and the working people who need to generate income, who should build the future of this country feel disappointed, uninvolved, so the referendum as a political statement becomes increasingly difficult and unacceptable and ask for a vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132998	The 164th Amendment, MP Ante Pranic, is not here. 165th representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, is not here either. 166th Representative Bozo Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u132999	Dear President, I would like this bill to be bad in many ways, but this amendment, which we have now submitted, if the Ministry of Administration would reconsider and withdraw this article from the final draft of the law and adopt our amendment for the reason that further unnecessary red tape is being created. If the system still works today, then I don't see the reason why more of them are being hired in public service to swallow even more money instead of focusing these money on those needs that will ultimately lead to people being employed, but in the real sector and where they can generate additional profits. I guess that's what we should be trying to do. What's happening today is that by force pushing a bill like this means choking democracy to create unnecessary costs and allowing parties to add a few million kunas to tell a story like they think they're telling the world what they think they're living in, and that has nothing to do with reality, it has nothing to do with the truth. Unfortunately, today people are moving you out of Croatia, and I'm sorry that you need another few million kunas more to capture Podokin's villages, they're gone, they won't be there, and with these few million kunas, you'll only send more people out of Croatia. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133000	166th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133001	And this article, in fact, Article 15, we have made an amendment to the above, to delete that article for the sake of the overall impression of this law, I must stress that this law is not at all in the spirit of referendum initiatives, that it does not actually encourage people to point out its opinion, that, in some ways, it is systematically and systematically making any initiative in terms of ad hoc initiative, because, even with the financing of certain initiatives, it prescribes stricter conditions, for example. 6 months earlier, you have to start an account, so we should know that the people should know that by ruling the most often irrelevant right now, they're going to pass some bad law or they're going to encourage some initiative or there's going to be some kind of social change, and they actually know 6 months earlier. It is simply that some can even say impossible conditions, through this law it is ensured that the minimum funding for political action of parties. Why? If it has for the minimum political action of the parties at local, regional levels, why is the same not per child, per kindergarten, according to a certain establishment of primary school and other. Why do we not have such examples of systematic, organised, systematic, direct financing, in fact, for economic recovery, for health care, for social care. Why do we not have such measures provided for directly rather than when it comes to mountainous and mountainous areas, when it comes to assisted areas when we know that there is 2/3 of Croatia, then only 120 million kuna is allocated from the budget. So it's simply too small, it's simply not enough, and this law goes a step further by making it harder and I ask that this amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133002	168th Amendment of Representative Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133003	Thank you, Mr. President, so I am sorry that this amendment will not be accepted as well, so this legislative proposal of yours and the article is further administratively increasing in some way and the administration is emerging, and even now in the case of independent representatives and the urgency of this law, it is that on the one hand independent representatives make it difficult for their administration, otherwise we don't even know how much this law will have an effect on the state budget, because all these people will have to pay somehow, and on the other hand, the legal proposal is open to independent advocates, given that the legal proposal, if an independent agent passes to some party of money from that representative who gets that representative is crossing the party. So we have one blow to independent representatives, I personally think that the MPs are independent, they are truly independent of the future of Croatian politics, that the mayor such as Ante Pranic or the mayor of Ilock who recently beat the HDZ in Ilock, that they are the future, but that this law rather than the government encourages them, therefore, such persons and this new policy, it is even more administratively this one who wants to burden them, and that is the additional love of people, and here I think that's not good. The message we're sending tonight is that this law is not good, so we've attached so many amendments, and to every amendment, we're going to ask for a vote, including this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133004	169th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133005	I thank Mr. President, I think we must once again point out that with this amendment that you refuse us we wanted to send a clear message of what we want from this law, and what you have made of it, and you have made it useful only to you and your party. So the answer to that can only be one thing, and that's that we'll also persist here, all night long if we have to fight to prove that in this way we can't cheat on our citizens. The message sent to me by a friend here tonight, says in politics the truth must wait until someone needs it, and it will be necessary for you to one day when you face that citizens know that you have disabled their referendum and know how you have taken the money and used it only to make your election result better for the European Parliament, but the question is whether it will be just like that. And that's why we're here all the time tonight, and we're going to keep on saying 888 times that this law has made you try to get even more retaliatory than taxpayers' money and that you've made it impossible for citizens to make a referendum statement. The only important thing is that citizens will eventually reward all of this because they will know that it was just for the way that you would have the best election result in European elections but it might not be like that. And that's why I'm asking that this amendment of mine be voted again at the session tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133006	170th Amendment, Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133007	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, here we keep repeating that this legislative proposal is an additional challenge to the citizens' referendum. In fact, we all know how difficult the conditions for a referendum in the Republic of Croatia are, the secretary of state is not funny, these are facts. It's very difficult to collect in 14 days means 400 thousand signatures, and when they get together then we have a situation to say that there are 40,000 invalid signatures when we ask the minister to give us an insight into these invalid signatures he here from the pay phone says no problem come to the ministry tomorrow, we come to the ministry tomorrow, he says nothing we can do, and then you come to our club and bring us our signatures that we signed. This shows the relationship of ruling the referendum. And now you, within this legislative proposal, are still imposing referendum initiatives on them to have the same accounting, the same financial reports as political parties that have logistics, employees, services. And to make things worse, you're raising money for political promotion from 1.5 to 4 million kuna, allowing the transfer of money in certain situations. In municipal and city councils, you raise a threshold that goes to political parties because so far it could have been one kuna, e.g. as in Vrgorec, these are all provisions of this law. The goal is to fill the party's bag, here's the party president and the main president of the Parliament and the party's chief secretary, and maybe even the party's president, because he says he's done, here we see now in the case of Gabriela Žalac what's going on, he came here also to fight for the party's bag. So it's clear what the intention is, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133008	171st representative Sasa Djujic, he's gone. ... Ah, excuse me, the obvious then about that amendment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133009	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the proposer of this law, we are aware of the amendment 171 which is not accepted, for the reason that a natural person’s statement is delivered not to be governed by the procedure for the collection of outstanding outstanding liabilities does not entail any additional costs for natural persons, because it is not prescribed that the same statement is confirmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133010	Okay. Since there are no colleagues, we will vote on that. We are now going to the 172nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. There are other such amendments from 172 to 183, they are the same, so I'm asking the secretary of state to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133011	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the legislator of the Law on Amendments 172 to 183, it is obvious that they are not accepted for reasons because the conclusion of a grant contract of more than 5 thousand kunas is considered necessary for reasons of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133012	Thank you. Now let's go with the obvious. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, colleague Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133013	Thank you, Mr. President. All donations on the law that is now in force are public and must be transparent. So whatever the amount is, the person who received the donation has to publish it and the funding reports show every amount that a company, the right person donated to a political party, an independent representative, an independent councilman or any natural person who donated. Therefore, we have transparency in the current law and anonymous donations are prohibited. So we don't have and don't conduct elections in some normally unregulated space where there are no provisions that prevent donations from being anonymous, that no one knows who donated political money. It is therefore all in the existing law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. Even the law is called, this new one you're proposing exactly the same as the law that's in effect with the addition to the referendum. Therefore, there are no provisions governing these issues in the very name of the law. And the questions of donations and contracts we expected you to write in an explanation, which means making a contract and resulting from the conclusion of a contract. You didn't actually state it in an explanation, but the reason is not, of course, transparency and transparency exists now. That's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133014	Thank you. 173rd Amendment of Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133015	Thank you very much. Well, of course we didn't expect the Proposer to accept this amendment because the transparency of the HDZ donations was never important, because we're talking, we can start from FIMI MEDIA, to others who financed the campaign, there was now one of the larger and stronger companies in the Republic of Croatia, the PPD, there was everything. Therefore, but we expected that at least the political parties would regulate it legally and not be filled with ash, but will make an effort, to get rid of donations in a better way by political parties, but when they spit and wiped out 400,000 people because of the referendum initiative that was hit. And that's why I know, here, that 23 hours, 11 and a half are, half now before night, that very few people follow this, but it's worth fighting for what the Constitution guarantees, guarantees to the people, that out of the people, it's a representative body, that units of local self-government, representative bodies, as well as county bodies, and who and this High House, who should be the High House, where parliamentary representatives, should appreciate and protect the will of the citizens who sent them. However, in our electoral law it is unchangeable, in our electoral law, in this way set up, for the President of the Parliament to get 200, 300 or 400, 500 votes, I don't know exactly, but I know that I got so much in my village somewhere, so they simply don't allow them to be representatives of the people in the representative body and that's why the referendum initiative that asked for election changes is. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133016	Thank you, time. 174th Amendment of Agent Robert Dolnjko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133017	... our existing law is absolutely all anonymous donations, in all the financial reports on financial electoral promotion, on funding through donations, every recipient of this money, must substrate the public who financed the political party, an independent representative or an independent councilman. [[Specially enabled.]] And no matter what the amount. So, even about minimum amounts. For example, we will also talk about this later, you have recommendations from both the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly and the Venice Commission, that in the case of funding and a referendum of some donation, small amounts, you do not have to show in fact that citizens who donate small amounts, for example 100 kn, 200, 300 kn, that such amounts do not have to be included, therefore, minimum grants. For example in neighbouring Slovenia, donations are published to the public, amounting to more than the average gross salary of employees in Slovenia. So that is, one country to us next-door EU member, who in his law has such a provision. This is what the Council of Europe advises, that some small amounts, which citizens donate, which do not significantly affect campaign financing, are not required to publish, thus allowing these citizens to donate small amounts, which help either a councilman or a political party or a referendum campaign, so we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133018	Thank you. 175th Amendment MP Hrvoje Rundic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133019	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in In fact, the proposer proposes to delete the contract provision for donations of more than 5 thousand kuna, as the law does not prescribe, which would be regulated by the contract, except for the amount of donations itself, and it will be publicly available anyway. Clearly in case it's not about envelopes. However, I don't want the envelopes now, it's over my head, but about an hour and a half ago, my colleague, Sladolev, mentioned that by today in Croatia, the issue of donations in humanitarian action has not been resolved. But this question is, therefore, solved without a problem, and here you know what who, how, how, how much, etc. What reminded me of what my colleague Sladolev said last week was your anniversary of the death of Antun Gustav Matoša, so I took one of his books and read, a little, now I'm not going to quote, because everyone quotes always, who wants to read, but Antun Gustav Matoš wrote to you in 1903 about things that when you read and move the author today, you move the date, these are the same things that happen today in Croatia. So it's not just that for 27 or 30 years some things haven't been solved, it's 120 years we haven't worked things out. And as for this amendment, I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133020	176th Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133021	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament. I welcome the Secretary of State. Here's the article, which demonstrates transparency. So, it's required, a high standard is introduced, so it's not enough just to register a donation, but also to fake a contract. And that should be demonstrated, as the state apparatus is ready to introduce standards. Of course, we consider this unnecessary, and therefore this amendment suggests that this should be abolished, because especially in the light of these other articles, which we have already talked about, where, as well as the obligation of the grant for the work of political parties, in the units of local self-government, where it is also allowed to transfer, not only the independent representatives, but also its chieftain political, which he has earned, of course, in the context of a whole other political match and of course, there is a referendum where the political engagement of self-organised citizens, who is also the most valuable form of political action of a country, is placed in the same rank side-by-side, therefore, political work of the parties and imposes everything that, here, you can read in this law. Therefore, this article is extremely hypocritical and we really do not believe that it belongs here and I would like to ask the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133022	Pranic's 177th amendment is missing. The 178th amendment of MP Ninčević-Lesandric does not exist. We're going to the 179th Amendment of Representative God Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133023	The Honorable Chairman, respected state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, MP Slaven Dobrovic mentioned hypocrisy, so I would not agree that only hypocrisy is in this article of the law where allegedly ruling raises the level of transparency, judging by how much we are in this political arena, what I know for sure, I know for a fact that HDZ never writes certain articles of the law for no reason, and probably their donors are not the problem to sign the contract, but what is certain, certain that some other people will probably feel fear at the moment when they need to sign the contract and that they will certainly not care because signing a contract at the amount of 5.00 kn lock. Why don't you do it, here, paint it right away tomorrow, rewrite this same law and finally edit and donate to schools, arrange donations for humanitarian action, excellent, why don't you do it, but it was important to you to push this part into this law and this law right here tonight and tomorrow. And it is also interesting in this article that you do not follow the recommendations that have come from the EU, you swear to the EU. Here, I would really ask you to be transparent at least from time to time and not to use the possibility of being light-headed amnesia, if I can call it that, that those things that don't suit you easily forget, remember as you remember well for your pocket, remember those people who would like to vote, so let them for example. e-voting. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133024	Amendment of 180th Representative Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133025	Based on transparency, you have introduced another mechanism of political control, the political control of those who donate money. It is certainly no problem for donors to sign contracts, but to every small man, especially in small places, the problem is declared, means, publicly, as a supporter of certain political options and thus sow fear. What I'm saying is, that certainly, it should be transparent and MOST is one of those who advocates transparency. Well, um... 11. The budget law also says we are obliged to manage economically with taxpayers' money. The way you provide from this law, meaning, centrally, it comes to the question of whether this law is constitutional since it interferes directly with the jurisdiction of local and regional self-government, means, by this law, you are touching the freedoms of local and regional self-government, ordering them what minimum fees the representatives of their representative bodies will have, so that's what, and all you pretend to be for the level of transparency. Just as I pointed out earlier, education is important to us, health care is important to us, social services are important to us, so why not provide for a certain kindergarten amount from the state budget of the Ministry of Science and Education, in order for this service to actually be available throughout the Republic of Croatia, and we today have an unequal service because it has been proven by a number of scientific articles that the employability of women is directly related to the provision of formal preschool care. I also have to say that each of these articles shows that everything is a lever and behind the lever. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133026	The 181st Amendment of Representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133027	Thank you, Mr. President. So, this legislative proposal, therefore, calls for transparency in the financing of referendum initiatives and political parties, and on the other hand, two months ago, we had a law on the real owners of the company where you've made that decision in a year, and now I don't know what transparency is on the one hand and where you're calling for this law, and on the other hand we don't even know in the Republic of Croatia which are the real owners of the company although the EU Directive requires us to make that register, so we don't really know who the real owners of the company are. And as for donations, I do have experience in the work humanitarianally at school where I participated and was the initiator of a number of initiatives, and every time we were kind of on the verge of the law when we were raising money for the kitchen in Africa and we built a kitchen in Africa and for certain reasons because it was actually an unspeakable law. So I would really like this debate to encourage both the subject and the subject of the donation of trade chains, the Caritas or such institutions where there are administrative obstacles far greater than political parties. And we send a bad message as if the parties were more important to us than humanitarian associations and things like that. And here's the thing. I'm calling again for reason, and we're going to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133028	182. Amendment by Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133029	Thank you. I will repeat once again, so we have, I have given the amendment to which we wanted, which I would like to amend to delete in Article 18(5), and because it is a provision for the conclusion of a contract on donations worth more than 5 thousand kunas, because the law does not stipulate that the issue would be governed by a contract other than the amount of donation and it will be publicly available anyway. So the conclusion of a contract on the amount of donation of more than 5 thousand kuna is something that is not really necessary because we do not know what will be the subject of the contract, you can only write in it that a certain legal or natural person donates and a party or candidate receives a certain donation, which in itself is clear from the nature of the donation. And it's not clear what will be achieved by this contract. So you go to regulate something that is completely unnecessary, erase things that were good in the current law and all with one goal to get yourself an extra 2.5, 2.5 million kuna for your European elections where you want to achieve a great, superior victory, but that won't be the case. Citizens see it, and they also see that you have not done anything with a fund of particularly expensive medicines that you have left in the wind, donations to citizens, and have committed to the Ministry of Health to donate as much as the citizens do. And that fund exists, but nothing's been paid out of that fund to any child so far. And then we wonder why you want so much insensitivity when it comes to our most vulnerable groups of citizens and how much you really want with your lock-ups of the law only and only, and that's to increase your own election chances, but that's not going to work. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133030	Thank you. Amendment 183, MP Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133031	So it's clear what the intention of this law is, to fill a party bag as much as possible, raised from this 1.5 million kuna to 4 million kuna. It is obvious that within the HDZ they are boiling inside a party struggle because Gabriela Zhalac, who, behind whom the prime minister stood so fiercely, is now her position after today's quote... , the heat from our President-in-Office of the Parliament shows that the more Gabriela Zalac is not so sure because she publicly said what we all know is that in HDZ there is a grab for positions, for the seats on the Euroselection list but also for the position within the party itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And right now in the Croatian Parliament, we have a debate about getting HDZ as much money as possible for European elections, that in city and municipal councils there is an increase in compensation, to introduce contracts. Here, my colleagues are now talking about this amendment, party donation contracts. And it's no problem for someone to sign a contract that's a HDZ donor, but let's be a MOST donor, be a MOST donor, so the political options that HDZ wants to destroy at all costs. Where the minister of the administration announces last night on a facebook crashed MOST. We know what's the only real opposition to HDZ and who at all costs you want to destroy, which is made-up polls, which is what you're doing to the media that you're doing well, but it won't go away. The people open their eyes, the people will answer you already to these Euro elections and they're throwing away this party money you're fighting so hard for that the party's secretary-general has to come here right now and be here at midnight with us. So you're not gonna make it, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133032	Now we're going to the 184th Amendment, it's a new amendment, and now it's going to explain it, and it's going to be made clear by the Secretary of State and about it and all those until 195. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133033	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the legislator of this law, we are aware of amendments 184 to 195, the same amendments are not accepted for reasons because the conclusion of the grant contract is greater than 5 thousand kuna, we consider it necessary for reasons of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133034	Let's go now to show the promoters, the first club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists, fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133035	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Of course making a deal is both business and if you're already demanding that everything that's more than five thousand kunas be concluded in a written contract actually then what we're going to do, we go back to administrative, we create red tape, then... Probably stack up the hills of paper they need to be somewhere to justify everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'd go back to one other thing, we're asking the same of those who will donate to say we owe nothing to the state or to our employees or to our employees, and with us here, we have parliamentary agents who owe the state tax, which the state pays, which did not settle all their obligations to their employees. So are we going to put in the same clause that the other side has to make the same statement? So we're not gonna have people on our lists who are being prosecuted, which is tax debt, I think we'd have a problem with that. So we're just asking for the right ones to donate to us. And having us amongst us, even in this highest home of people who aren't right, that's not the problem. I think we should really take care not to ask others what we ourselves do not want to provide, and this proposal is actually going in that sense. And instead of taking the lead, to make it easy, we're gonna make it harder. We'll make it harder to finance the pre-election, just increase the amount. We're going to make it harder for a referendum so it can be called just to show what it actually is, don't try to do anything. What do you need? Turn this all together so no one can participate? That everyone has to be terrified with his signature on how they're dealing with each other somewhere? In the end, we've been looking at these signatures, and what's most extraordinary is actually piece of paper in a restaurant [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We're looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133036	Now it's MP Miro Bulj, Amendment 185.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133037	Thank you very much. Of course you're introducing contracts and the HNS will have the most sponsors because simply, he's satisfied with what HDZ gave him, and based on that trade as it came. And the contracts themselves, on donations, would be a colleague of the Grmoya well said that, simply who would have the courage to sign off on a stranger like the Most, then cut off his wings, was right, was wrong. It no longer has any perspective, so it was the most competitive and transparent company in the Republic of Croatia. It's a blow, it's a blow to the entire political system. Of course, it will have numerous donations, the Croatian People's Party once again, which simply works that way. They gave our energy, renewable energy sources, for wind power plants to foreign investors, they didn't encourage what should be encouraged, and these are their donors. So our INA, sponsors who were not supposed to sign the contracts, did not need Jozi Petrovic's contract, it determined its work through its Hungarians in the Republic of Croatia, so that those who are the biggest defenders from Minister Marić Goran to Andrej Plenkovic, INA went irrevocably into the hands of Hungarians and of course you will have numerous sponsors and that in this way you are working, betraying national interests, guessing foreign investors, which money, and telecommunications in that way, in fact, you are working, these are your sponsors. As a result, teleoperators have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, the margin and that is the way the current government operates. Requesting vote on the amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133038	Amendment 186. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133039	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. This law could have been much better regulated and absolutely there was room for certain provisions that did not change well. And those were expectations. But there are so many bad provisions left. For example, the possibility of opening a jury account to finance election promotion months before the election. Months before the election, you can open a jury account to finance election promotion, receive donations, spend money, have an election promotion, which is already happening, if you will watch, and see, I have seen in Zagreb, probably in other cities, large jumbo posters di one party, I think the HNS advertises its candidate on the list that has already been publicly declared. So, you have an election promotion, the election isn't scheduled. And then you predict in the law, if the party does not predict participation in the elections, if it does not submit the list, and then they will return the money, close the jury account and will not finance the election promotion. But what logic is that? What is the logic of making it possible for months earlier to open a jury account, to finance election promotion, receive donations, and then, at the end of the story, you foresee by law, if no list or candidacy is submitted, the jury account is closed and the remaining funds that have been donated are returned. So where's the logic? Well, the logic is to open a jury account when elections are called and election promotion can be done, not before. That's why we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133040	Amendment 187 of MP Hrvojo Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133041	... Thank you. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, 10 seconds, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, So, in art. 18th wheel. 6 the sentence ‘In the case referred to in Article 5 of this Article shall be deleted. That statement is attached to the contract." The reason is the same, the proposer proposes to delete the provision for donations of more than 5 thousand kunas because the law does not stipulate which issues would be regulated by the contract, except for the amount of the donation itself, it will be publicly available anyway. Now, of course, you've been talking about transparency for a while now, and transparency is one word among other things that means, let's say, telling the truth. Recently, we were all witnessing the statement of one, one statement by the President of the Republic, which said that the City of Zagreb can boast that there are no homeless in it. I already said it here tonight, but I'll do it again. A few days before that statement, I had a conversation with the Ombudsman, who confirmed to me that there are between 2 and 3 thousand homeless in Zagreb, and accommodation in Zagreb for the homeless, the daily one, it seems to me to be about 200, 200. Now imagine, in Zagreb, there are people wandering around town, sleeping in parks, and if the police catch them sleeping in the park, then write them a ticket for wandering, who don't, if they can't pay right now, then they can't send them to the address because they don't have an address. And now that we're talking about funding political campaigns, I'm asking myself what kind of society we've become where that human dignity is gone, and every year we pay 20 billion kunas of interest to bankers. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133042	It is now the 188th Amendment, MP Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133043	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. So the story of contracts and transparency, I don't know who it can impress really because money, power, influence, it's one solid link and in a country where over 50% of economic activity actually controls the direct or indirect state, it's clear that the support, the donation of someone who isn't in a position to control these processes in a larger or good way, that it's very, very dangerous for that entrepreneur so I don't know what is meant to be achieved by this and one thing is certain, young people who think their own head, who work, who want to create, who want to start families with this kind of behavior, of course, as well as many other articles that this law makes them completely discouraged to look for their future here, some place under the sun. So I repeat, these provisions are terribly counterproductive to solving the demographic problem which I think is problem number one for the Republic of Croatia. And instead of being focused because it can and must be changed, of course, with clear measures, directly related to it, however, to indirect behavior, and to such passing of such and similar laws. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133044	Thank you. Now we have two amendments, 189 and 190 whose proposings are not with us, so let's go to Amendment 191 of Representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133045	Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. Representative Podolnjak wondered what the purpose of giving and investing in a campaign is if you will not participate in the elections and the goal is just to invest in the campaign, it is political marketing, it is the way you will spend your sponsor's money and even in those moments when you have no content because the content is ultimately not important, you give up the content every time you come to power. Then why not compete? Well, they'll live your name even though you don't go to the election like they'll probably hope and those who run the campaign today before the election is called, hope that they will survive politically, not, those who sell themselves as they have sold themselves, you're done and those who have bought will be finished. I would ask you, because of those who literally live on the edge of poverty today, those whom MP Runtic is talking about, those who sleep today, it is still good to sleep in the parks because they may find the bench somewhere and those who are being punished and the police and those who are still hungry in Zagreb and other parts of Croatia, be a little polite. You're a little less boastful. You donate to the budget this new one, show that you care about these people. Go some way to the soup kitchen, change the way donations for humanitarian action, don't get so out of line with the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133046	Thank you. 192. Amendment, representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133047	This amendment actually complements the previous article in which it says that a statement of no debt to certain institutions in the Republic of Croatia is actually attached in accordance with the contract. What worries me is we're actually going into so much detail, there's a contract, there's a statement but they don't have the specifics of that contract. What are the components of the contract? What is this contract to contain? The contract is a two-sided business between 2 parties and it is likely that there should be some act and that is to be counterproductive or should be the minimum provisions of that contract. I would also like to say that although you do not specify those provisions of the contract, you are working in detail in the next paragraph that there must be a statement. As far as the adoption of this law is concerned, I would like this practice to be more frequent in those cases where it is of interest to citizens and not only to political parties and political actors as is the case here because the aim is to increase the amount of funding, the amount to be promoted from a million and a half kuna to 4 million kuna. I want to tell you that 92,000 pensioners today receive a pension of less than 500 kuna. As we speak now, many people send messages and say here comes the malts not to antiquity will come for all the debtors in the Swiss francs we still don't have the Supreme Court's decision. What are we gonna do about it? They also send people messages and say everything is very slow, we've been waiting for justice for 10 years, we're going to Strasbourg, we're going to European courts, but they just don't get that justice. We warned of a number of laws and one of these was the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and assisted areas to come and that the actually resolute ministry was reporting the effects of the Croatian Parliament's refusal. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133048	Thank you. 193rd Amendment, Representative Marko Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133049	Thank you, Mr. President. So this article and this article of this law refers to the fact that the jury account can be opened before the election campaign, that it can be donated before the election campaign and we already have a highly politicised society, so we already have jumbo posters watching us all over Croatia even though the campaign started and we actually have a political caste that manages all the institutions, and now theoretically it can happen that we actually have a campaign and a jumbo poster all over Croatia for four years where actually those people won't be able to turn their heads from politics anymore. I don't think that's good, especially the City of Zagreb is ahead of it, so in the City of Zagreb this is the most politicians otherwise and the best-paid politicians in all of Croatia. I don't know how well the public knows that the City of Zagreb pays even politicians on school boards and thus controls schools this management process that one meeting of the school board of politicians gets on the school board about 400 kuna, that these are huge figures paid by all citizens of the City of Zagreb and now we have the fact that this law will also improve the meaning of a highly politicised society, and I believe that there is a lot of politics for citizens and one of this law will cause even greater disgust for citizens towards politics. We want to change that, and that is why we will ask to vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133050	194th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133051	I thank Mr. Chairman, so once again we will repeat as is apparent, we are the only one in the assembly to fight for the citizens' referendum and against increasing the amount that will allow HDZ and political parties to win the ultimate victory, a great victory in the upcoming elections. We want to prevent this, and we believe that this proposed law has injured the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and I will repeat that it is 20. 3. In 2019, articles 176 and 193 were then injured at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. Rules of Procedure relating to the return of certain provisions of the law. Therefore, in the transitional and final provisions of the law in question, certain provisions have a return effect. The provision in Article 97(2) provides that the first annual financial report, together with the contributions to be drawn up and submitted to the State Audit Office and to the State Election Commission in accordance with the provisions of this Act, shall refer to the reporting period from 1.1.2019, so that the provision has a feedback effect, since it obliges all political parties, independent representatives and independent council members to draw up annual financial reports for 2019 in accordance with the provisions of the law which will enter into force during 2019 and no sublegal rules for the application of the law have been adopted. During the year, those entities have already spent funds and bookkeeping in accordance with the provisions of the existing law in the period from the beginning of the year to the present year. Furthermore, Article 100 of the Law provides that the units of self-government provided in the 2019 budget for the regular annual financing of political parties and independent council members in a small amount per Member of the representative body of the amount set out in the budget [[Intruder: Thank you.]] they must ensure and pay to political parties. [[Thank you, colleagues.]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133052	Amendment 195, Agent Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133053	Thank you, President-in-Office, respected State Secretary, the only policy option that has decided to resist HDZ and their efforts to fill the party's Euro elections account, but also to make it harder for citizens to make a referendum statement, is the Most and we will not give up, if it continues at this pace to declare the amendments, it means that none of our MPs but those who are not here will come, and it will mean it will last until 19.30 on Friday, which means it will be impossible to vote tomorrow, only if you will not collect representatives tomorrow night to pass this law, because we all know that the president has to call the elections, we will see how much you care about your party register. We know that you don't care about Croatian citizens because if you cared about us now we would be discussing the declaration of an exclusively economic belt, for example, which is a national interest and that decision you have on the agenda for more than 2 years, but I know that this is not allowed by Mr. Tajani, your great friend who participated in your campaign. We are also not discussing judicial reform, we are not discussing the reform of the electoral system that MOST has referred to in the procedure, we are not discussing the Executive Law, we are not discussing the problems that affect our citizens, but when it comes to your party register, then you are ready to sit down until the day of judgment. Until the day of judgment, not all of you, you are here as secretary of the party, there is the State Secretary, Josipa Rimac, but none of the MPs are present, they rely on their secretary who still runs the party, who today gave the red card to Gabrieli Zalac Thank you. I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133054	We are going to the 196th Amendment, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please the Secretary of State's statement on this and amendments up to number 207.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133055	I thank the President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the legislator, we take note of amendments from 196 to 207 and we say that they are not accepted for reasons because the conclusion of the grant contract is greater than 5,000 kuna, we consider it necessary for reasons of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133056	Let's go with the proposal, my colleague Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133057	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I'll only give you one situation. What if any Croatian citizen or any actual person in the world in which we live accidentally deposit some amount into that account? Are we going to forward that random payment to the state budget? Or that person with the right word I made the wrong payment to simply HDZ I never planned, I planned to pay off a mistake happened, give me back my money, don't you say no, no, no, no, the law says it's not your money anymore, it becomes the money of the state budget, we have the right to take it from you. So what do we do? Then we'll be judged for making a mistake payment, and then on the other hand when we look at it, says it's a donation whose value is greater than £5.00, I don't doubt you'll make the deal, so they'll be paying you someone 10 times 4.999,00 and everything you've written here is actually missing meaning, which means someone can pay you multiple times like that, so those amounts are maximum, that's saying 30.000,00 kn, 200, 100, what have we achieved? Just the administration, so we're creating a new administration that's going to take care of us so we don't waste the money someone paid for the campaign. Instead of dealing with your law to take care of the gray cash flows that you very well recognize when you pay for a campaign from state firms or in any other way, so now they've called you for official vehicles to which ministries, ministers have visited areas like, Ilock and who knows where, but that's allowed, it's moral, and 5.00 kn for someone to pay That's not allowed, we're asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133058	197th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133059	Thank you very much. It's been half a night, and we're going to keep fighting to prove that this law you're pushing, you're pushing it just for the sake of the rumors provided by this law so that we can share as much money in the campaign as possible, so that, as you do in Lica during the campaign, behind every beech, you as president and all the ministers, there were more of you there than the inhabitants, so you need that money, and you only need a triba of Japanese politics, i.e. The lambs, not the lambs for the time of the Ottoman Empire, where you have swept all the herds, know very well the Knin Queen in what way they worked, how they bought and as much money they needed to drink patriotic songs, didn't exactly drink when they closed the archives here, the tribalo was made possible already when you called for lustration, the people to decide with a referendum, not to make it difficult for the referendum to change the electoral law, so Mr. Jandrokovic would not be president of HS, he couldn't enter HS with 856 votes, my village is very little, Mrs. Jandrokovic. Rimac knows that there are so many votes in my village and, of course, that we do not want to make it impossible, the bigger the listener, the bigger the list, so, the referendum initiatives are spit, 400,000 people, but if you didn't tell me, which is why we haven't changed the law that's in the procedure, the electoral law, and not now you're some kind of contract when you know and you're witnesses that there are those who buy Mercedes, those who were at the presentation, Mercedes, of course today is the biggest politician of all politicians Mr. Jandrokovic, to whom he drinks, that sings, and I'm really grateful, and here I am, today he did it to Kosorica, he did it to Karamark, he did it to Sanader, and today he sang, and I's sorry and I'm asking for this vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133060	It's important I don't sing lambs. 198th Agent Robert Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133061	Thank you, Mr. President HS. The key message of this law was to reduce funds for political funding, we are witnessing that citizens' participation in the elections has been reduced for years, and that in all types of elections, from HS to only half of the population of the Republic of Croatia to local elections, where it votes much less. The question is whether or not we will have any response to the European Parliament elections last time was only 25%, and we are increasing funding for political funding, we also commit local budgets, the intention is to raise and fund election campaigns for the European Parliament's election and the logical proposal would be that today many countries are proposed to make political funding linked to the participation of citizens in elections, so if citizens do not go to elections, neither should the political parties should pay off that money because they did not earn it because they did not motivate citizens to go out and give them their vote and to see when the funds of political financing would be tied up in that way, the parties would care to motivate the citizens to go to elections, so the laws define that they allow them to vote more easily, introduce and e-vote and that would have logic, and with the less voter turnout to vote, we raise funds for political funding. And that's why we tabled these amendments and the one that we're talking about right now, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133062	199th Amendment MP Hrvoje Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133063	Thank you, Mr. President. So, in art. 18th wheel. Eight is wiped out. The proposer proposes to delete the contract for donations worth more than £55.00 because the law does not prescribe which issues would be regulated by the contract, except for the amount of the donation itself, and it will be publicly available anyway. When we talk about donations, that's how it associates me with a lot of things like this, but I have to admit that we are the best donations where, say, donors at the same time and social help users, they are very handsome donations, and there were, I mean, such creativity in donations for political parties has a series. However, I would like to return, so to the very essence of this law. In my opinion, this law is so fundamentally wrong, because it sends such a wrong message, that I don't know where it would start now, to explain how wrong it is, but I would sum it up like this, he says, say, who's homeless, like the plums of the poor, blocked, young, jobless, underpaid, retired, who connects with the end, I don't know, 1000 and something kuna a month, even less. Whom the center for autism in Split, which the ministry has blown off, is what we read on one portal today, it's important that there's money for jambo posters, it's important that there's money, it's important to have money, it's important that it has money for television ads, it's important that the media gets their floor, etc. And as for the amendments, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133064	Thank you. The 200th Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrović, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133065	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. And respected secretary of state. So, the contractual obligation for donations of more than 5000 kn in the name of transparency, of course, means nothing to us, because it actually complicates things, because in any case, the obligation to make donations public, meets the purpose of the donation at all, and of course, always pushes transparency as a major interpretation, and so on, the attachment, purity of the procedure and the purity of financing. Of course, all of this is quite hypocritical and that people are actually with the first disgust and then by resigning and resilient monitoring of such situations, such an event, therefore, the development of political situations in Croatia. The change of electoral law, the electronic vote, the different electoral course, the system, would allow for greater participation of citizens, the cheaper the state, the less regulation. We have all the opposite provisions here, and I don't know how we can expect to have some shift for the better. Donation as such in the system, which, as I have already said, is fully defined with various state structures is a very risky job for entrepreneurs, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133066	Thank you. Amendment 201. there is no representative Pranic and 202 MP Ninčević Lesandric, so let's go to Amendment 203. Representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133067	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would just continue a series of representatives of Runtic, who says, what's important, ironically looking back at what you're doing today, so I'm going to continue his series, it's important that citizens can eat cakes when they don't have bread, because you were making fun of one person, when she said, a few years ago, that it's tearing off the thinner cherries, but at least she was offering bread. They don't have bread today, but it's important to you that they can eat cakes, so much is the level of deviation, which you show so much of the level of birth, which you today show with this insistence on the law, aside from all those people who are in trouble today, because all you care about is what your cheek looks like. If I were to say, parts not words, and parts of politicians are bill proposals, and words are pre-election promises, then you're actually showing that the whole system, 70 years old, hasn't changed anything. Because by suffocating this law, by this bill of law, a possible referendum, you're actually trying to encourage again silence. And at any moment, when there was a patriotic thought, when there were free-thinking people, someone found a way to try to break them. And at any moment and at the first moment when you felt freedom, that you could do it, you started doing it, but today, of course, with the help of your Brussels friends Tajani, and similar. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133068	The 204th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133069	This law is extremely interesting, because it's so detailed, it leaves so much to the case, so we have a 5000-dollar contract. It doesn't matter if 4900 kn times 3 times, it doesn't matter, but it's important that for 5000,00 we have a contract that doesn't say what the terms of the contract are, but it's important that we have a statement, then after that, it's important that if someone accidentally pays the money, that that money doesn't go back to the person who paid it, it goes straight to the state budget. So there's no turning back, and if you happen to have done it. I must also say that, in this respect, in relation to this law, except for its speed, which has come to the final draft of the law, to the debate and the adoption itself, i.e., the vote on this law, I should say, that all legislative proposals should be seen quickly, and should also be seen for concreteness. In fact, we had two laws last year, one on mountainous mountain areas, and one on assisted areas. Both laws had no more than 60, so together articles that were actually PR articles, they were marketing members in which nothing else was prescribed except good wishes. So there wasn't, they say, one man said, that the benefactor would be remembered, with good wishes, should also bear some money. For mountain mountainous mountainous areas, except that there were 45 units of local self-government that were covered by the scope, it now climbed to 87, and all foreseen is 40 million kuna. So 40 million kunas from the state budget for residents of mountainous and mountainous areas, that's twice as much as they had in previous years, and for assisted areas, which include 304 units of local self-government, it's all 80 million kn. This article is proposed Amendment in that form. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please vote on the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133070	Amendment 205. Representative Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133071	Thank you, Mr. President. So, the law favors the top three policy options, namely HDZ, HNS and Milan Bandic's party. So these are the parties that have the most donors, donors that are connected to interesting structures, so they will profit the most from this law, which is the fact. I don't mind, so a particular political party has a certain donor, even if it's a suspicious past. We know that Mr. Mamic was a donor of the ruling party, so that's their choice, and that's the choice of that man, but it bothers me that he's trying to push one thesis that this law will lead to transparency, rationalization. Because he won't bring it. If you cared about the cost rationalization, then you'd put in an electronic vote. The electronic vote is the MOST proposal, the election law still stands in the drawer and significantly cost all election processes in the Republic of Croatia, as well as those parliamentary and Europarliamentary and local ones, and would increase youth turnout. We know that youth turnout to the EU elections at least, that some countries that have introduced an electronic vote are very successful European countries, such as. Estonia. So it is not clear to me why I do not want to introduce this electronic vote because it would make it much cheaper, therefore, to vote and to all the electoral processes. We will represent that vote, we believe that young people should have a greater influence in politics and we will also vote, we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133072	Amendment 206 to Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133073	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So once again, I will repeat that it is not our intention to obstruct the law as such, but the law is something that essentially makes it impossible for a referendum statement that it should be in a real democratic country and we are therefore against an increase in the amount that will be allocated to political parties, specifically HDZ, for election promotion because we think it is deeply unfair for our citizens. And once again, I will return to the fact that the law stipulates that the units of self-government which in the 2019 budget provided funds for the regular annual financing of political parties and independent council members, in a small amount per Member of the representative body, of the amount set out in Article. 5 of the law, they shall, by 31 December 2019, ensure and pay to political parties and independent councils the difference of funds up to the amount set out in Article 2 of the budget of the Self-Government Unit. Five of these laws. Why does it matter? Since all units have already adopted their budgets, before the entry into force of this law, this provision has a feedback effect, which is deeply unfair because all units of local self-government have already provided in their budget, i.e. the means, clear means, which are clearly defined and have not provided funds for political parties and independent council members in accordance with the provision of Article. 5 and will have to bring new budgetary changes again. According to the Rules of Procedure, if the final draft of the law provides that certain provisions of the law will have a return effect, on the basis of a specific explanation of the rapporteur of the law of the report, the home body and the Legislative Committee, it will be determined, in particular, that The operation of certain provisions of the law exists special [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Reasons. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And they're not here. Thank you, I'm looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133074	I'm asking you to hold on for two minutes. Amendment 207, Agent Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133075	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, they're texting me some reporters, who's in charge. I say so the secretary-general, he takes care of the party's register, and besides probably Vice Presidents Radin and Reiner couldn't even make it this late, and Mr. Brkic isn't exactly sure because he, he even took a break to watch the game, so he's probably not on this line right now. So, what we want to send here is a message. We can't raise money by political promotional breaks when we have a situation like this in the state. There are many, many more important laws that we should discuss here at HS. We can't make it impossible for citizens to enter a referendum because we already have the conditions now, we have the situation that almost 400 thousand signatures are needed in 14 days. When that happens, then we have a situation where Lovre Kuščević Apis, whom Josipa Rimac, then as campaign leader with Tomislav Karamark, claimed that the HDZ had stolen mandates in the HS elections. So, then both Apis and Lovro Kuščević say there are 40,000 invalids, there are not enough signatures, when we're looking for a check, then they don't want to give it out. So this is about trying to steal the citizens' referendum, and wanting to fill the party register with these parties mentioned by counterpart Sladolev, namely HDZ, HNS and Milan Bandic. Parties that have the most donations, which are in a suspicious way connected to certain tycoons and entrepreneurs, and for this reason, on behalf of all Croatian citizens here tonight, only MOST defends rights democracy and the right to transparency [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133076	Thank you. Be still, it'll be a night of surprises and everything will come up. Amendment 208. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, the State Secretary will be clear about this until the 219th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133077	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, on behalf of the promoter, I would like to take note of the amendments of No. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133078	Who's going on behalf of the club? Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133079	Thank you, Mr. President. Above this article on which we have given the amendment, writes a limit on the amount of donations for the financing of regular annual political activities but what kind of restriction is that? A natural person means he can donate to a particular political party, an individual independent representative, an independent councilman, 30 000 kuna. And now you'd think it's a total of 30,000 kunas a year, no, he can donate to not one political party but 10 political parties, 20 political parties, 20 independent MPs, all independent council members. For example, you have independent lists on which 5 or 10 independent council members were elected, a natural person can donate 30 000 to each of them and therefore we have proposed an amendment that a natural person, therefore an ordinary citizen can donate 30 000 kuna a year but only one political party or one independent representative or one independent councilman. So really a limit, 30 000 kuna is not a small amount of money for a citizen who donates it himself, so it's not a legal person, and that would be a real restriction, appropriate to our terms, average salaries and opportunities for citizens, and that's not a small amount of money, 30 000 kuna, and that's the limit that we're proposing with the amendment that we've submitted, which unfortunately you haven't accepted. In your case, there is actually no limit that it can be donated to many parties, MPs or councilors, so it can be about amounts that are far greater than hundreds of thousands of kunas per year. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133080	Thank you. We are going to Amendment 2019, Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133081	Here's a colleague, Podolnjak, who explained these restrictions and what can happen, but it won't be a problem for some, so it's HDZ to be the proposal we're defending, there's... Which by Mercedes will be given, it's not a problem at all, what they want the vehicle to do, there's no problem so that they can easily bridge the problem, but there's one question here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We here all the time we've been undermining the fire and water that's incompatible, which is that in these laws we have a referendum, a funding of referendums and political parties. We need to know and the Croatian people must know how much damage they have done because we do not have the right to hold a referendum in Hungary, it is the sale of agricultural land to foreign owners, natural and legal persons who have brought this Parliament, we have given amendments, I am the MOST Club myself and we have warned of these parliamentary representatives who are not here now, that since 2020, foreigners can buy land that has now been emptied of family economies throughout Slavonia, Dalmatia Zagora, Lici, Gorica Kotara and there is no people able to decide with a referendum such as in Hungary. In Hungary, legal and physical persons cannot buy agricultural land and in Croatia will be able to buy this treasure and that is our country, the country is the greatest wealth with the exclusive economic belt that you have not spent naturally because of your friend Tajani, who is fascist, who wants to be your Knin under Italy, my Son and will never be, you will never, in order to agree with them, you have stopped the referendum. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133082	Thank you. 210th Amendment, Agent Robert Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133083	Thank you, Mr. President. This article, which we are talking about, does not talk about the limitation of donations for annual political funding, but actually enables multiple donations of natural and legal persons to a greater number of political parties or independent representatives or independent councilors. But let's just ask ourselves what's the logic of some natural or legal person donating more political parties. If you have certain sympathy or wish to support a particular political option that you will assume and vote in the elections, why donate more political parties? It's obviously out of some interest. And I think that in the debate on this law is a fellow MP who talked about it, I don't remember any more, saying what when you find two candidates in the final round of elections, for example in the second round, and you, by the provisions of this law, can donate both candidates. Not one so you can choose, but you can donate both of them just in case, so no matter which one of them wins, you donated him the money. So that makes this law possible. For example, in the presidential elections where two candidates are found in the second round, you can donate both candidates under these provisions. According to our amendment, you could only have one. And that's the big difference. And that's why we're proposing an amendment and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133084	Thank you. 211, MP Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133085	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Madam Secretary of State. So this amendment in Article 19, we propose that item 1 be changed and read as follows: “A natural person may donate up to 30 thousand kuna in the calendar year for the financing of regular annual political activities to only one political party or only one independent representative or only one independent councilman.” The following is the explanation, the Proposer proposes to limit the annual donations of natural persons to up to 30 thousand kunas without the possibility of multiple donations to a number of political parties, i.e. to a number of independent representatives or independent councilors. Now, I've got one association and since it's already this late and it's pretty hot in here, so maybe one joke. You probably all know about those chocolate animal kingdoms, there are pictures of all kinds of animals in there, when you collect it all in the album and you're the emperor now. It might be convenient for this company, I won't mention it now, but to run one line of those chocolates called the political empire and whoever collects all such donations, like Pokemon, has power. Because there's one thought that says that the hand that gives is always above the hand that receives. So this really opens up such opportunities for creative political coalition and management of people who love money that I've said everything. As for the amendment, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133086	Thank you. 212th Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133087	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament. Donate, donate more political options, of course, that's highly opportunized for... entities that have acquired special positions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And whoever wins the positions are preserved. And in that sense, it is truly justified that this amendment, which would simply try to change it. However, of course this article and thus this amendment are not, it is not of particular importance that we have already learned that this law is therefore estranged from Croatia in two ways. It lowers democratic standards, on the one hand, strengthens the political system, creating a stronger political caste that successfully lives on the political city, no matter what the result of their governance. On the other hand, the referendum is made more difficult as the most excellent way for citizens to participate in the political life of one society, and we have seen here, of course, how this political work of citizens is actually equidistant, which is embarrassing with the political work of politicians who are therefore people from whom they pay, who have organisations and of course who control a large part of the economy and, of course, especially many donors who cultivate this relationship with the political cast, and thus have been doing so for decades. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133088	Thank you. The 213th Amendment of MPs Ante Pranic and 214 MP Ninčević-Lesandric, they are gone and we skip. We're going to 215, representing the God of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133089	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, fellow MPs. Why would they restrict people who, or people, can give to whoever they want, no matter how many times they want donations, it suits them. I mean, MP Hrvoje Runtic made a good point, so this will be literally a paradise for all possible political machinations that are combined with financial resources. Why would they change that? Well, their goal is to encourage it all the time. But what's going to be interesting, it's going to be interesting for the next 19 hours, and you're going to sweat for all the three, four million kunas you want to get, you're going to sweat behind that political financial machination that you're trying to create for yourself. You'll sweat and choke the referendum, you'll sweat for it. It will be our pleasure. And I guess that'll make you think about those who don't today, and it seems to me that you've gone too far to experience these people at all. Ask yourself when you and these people had your coffee, when you heard their problems last time. When you really cared about these people, when you were sick, when it was the last time. But that's not a problem for you because today you're not worried about the executive law, so I'm going to repeat what I said before, not about the executive law that you're helping, not about charity donations, so to help them, you're taking care of your pocket and your lex code, just go ahead and have 19 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133090	It is now up to representative Sonja Cikotic, 216 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133091	Here we have 30 thousand kuna, can finance and pay every natural person in the Republic and not one political party but more. So when I look at this law, I now see that it would be the ideal law of this law, not for political parties, but for entrepreneurs. You came up with everything through this law and you thought of everything, you were thinking of the budget money you're providing, so what you're centrally providing for the units of local self-government and county, you're thinking about the flow of that money, and you're thinking about other sources, so, even if someone wants to happen to miss you. Now, let's see what it would be like to be entrepreneurs, today entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia can report to EU competitions, and when they report to the EU competitions, Minister Žalac signs the fastest finger, and then we have the first competition that was, and I've said it several times before, it was cancelled at the end of the fourth month, at the end of April 2018, but on June 5, 2018, respectively. This same tender, although investment for 977 million kunas came, means, literally, construction permits for 977 million kunas, it re-opens the tender for 200 million kunas and rejects all other 777 million investments. So, the Republic of Croatia is so rich in investment that it has a goal that 700 million actually doesn't need it at all. We also need to know how these entrepreneurs actually came to finance their investments, building permits that came to be 2rd, 3rd g. Earlier, they came in a way that depended on the cashier in the post office. So they had to be in those 3 seconds, actually the investment that came and if they weren't in those 3 seconds, that's how entrepreneurs today have a way financing [[Intruder: Thank you]] Please vote on this amendment, thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133092	The 217th Amendment of Representative Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133093	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, we had, therefore, the case of Mr. Ivica Todorovic who publicly said I was a donor of the HDZ, I was a donor of the SDP, so, and now we have the fact that instead of the law, so the current law to use bad experiences and to prevent such things, we still have, therefore, the law that will improve such things, and we know that it brought us, so, Ivica Todoric and Agrokor who donated to political parties, they quietly approved his business, the loans were divided in HABOR, so it was not important for him which party currently in power, he donated to both others and third parties, and now the new Ivica Todorovic, the tykuna, thanks to God we have to donate again, however, because the money does not know the lightman, money does not know the ideology, so far as it matters to them who are currently in power, that it is necessary for them to implement the political policy, where they do not, in fact, where they do not, that they use their own, where they, where they are, where they do, where they do, where they do not, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, where they do, they do, they do, where they do, they do, they do, where, where, where they do, they do, where they do, where, where, where they do, where they do, where they do, they do, where they do, where they do, where, where, where, where, where, where they do, they do, they do, they do, where, where, where, where, where they do, where, where, where they do, they do, they do, where, they do, to, to do, where they do, where, where, where, where, where, where, where, where they do, where, where, where they do, where they do, where they do, where, So we think it's not good and we're asking for a vote on that amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133094	218th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133095	Thank you. So, once again, I want to warn you that people will not kindly look at what you're legalizing with this law, it's people who play for all teams, we've always clearly recognized such people, and nobody likes them very much, but those people around us exist, and you're going to legalize it now, that some entrepreneurs who may be part of them, and they're not exactly fair enough to make money that they can easily share, of some of that money, not even, but from some of their companies where they're politically set up, they'll now be able to award and donate to them multiple times in one calendar year, and that's what's worst in this law. Also, it gets very close to the eyes that, as much as any political party is donated, and then we see again what happens, the party that has 1.3% of citizens' support, practically except for you from HDZ, the largest amount of money has been received from donations, and that's what's interesting, but it's interesting to see how quickly they've been put back on their feet, and actually it's a modus operand that they've been present all along and we've been experiencing them on the Croatian political scene, which is that they were only careerists and were actually primarily thinking about their members and how they're going to get caught, I mean here, as you know of the HNS that actually got the biggest amount of money from donations. I demand a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133096	219th Amendment of my colleague, Mr. Grmoy, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133097	Thank you, Your Honor. They used to have other political parties refer a large number of amendments to certain laws, I don't know if this was the most that was ever referred to, possibly, but no one would stand up, the SDP did it on more than once, then they would pull out the amendments even though they had a more comfortable situation than we did because they had all the amendments to their club, so then they could change, and then there was only one man here, and here I am to get this pushed through to the end here to be, here's 10 of us right now, right? We are not like others, we are persistent in our struggle, we are persistent in fighting for a different and better Republic and this is not a fight against one law, nor is this a struggle to keep the HDZ without 2.5 million kuna you will find ways to finance it. This is a message to all Croatian citizens that there are people in this country who are fighting and who are ready to give you resistance, who are ready to give you resistance, who have resisted you and are still providing you at local levels, who are giving you resistance here at national level and who will never sell themselves. People who have raised ethical standards in Croatian politics, when ministers have left the government because of the affairs, and now ministers are leaving not because of the affairs, but when they say someone is setting them up inside HDZ. So they're leaving because they dared to violate that idyllic image of HDZ in public. And we all know that inside the HDZ, there's only fighting for positions, for prey, and here in this law there's a fight for party money, and that's all you're interested in. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133098	We are now going to the 220th Amendment Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. I'd like to ask the secretary to keep an eye on that and the amendments to number 231.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133099	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Assembly MPs and parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the proposer of this law, I am aware of the amendments from 220 to 231 and they are not accepted for reasons because to prevent the possible possible impact of the donor,... donations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We consider the necessary limitation of the amount, which the donor can donate to the individual recipient of the donation, but not to limit the number of donations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133100	On behalf of the club, colleague Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133101	Thank you very much. I'd like a little here, actually talk about one thing you left out here, and it's about Mercedes. So the Mercedes that's now attached to Minister Zhalac, worth about 50,000 euros, and you've listed 200 thousand kunas maximum. Well then, probably because that war is much lower, because it's probably with the flaws of some Mercedes, because to get it at that price, it's no longer worth 50,000 euros, it's probably a false model. But then when we come, okay, in money, you can't give, but in nature you can. But if we had one Mercedes, a second, a third, who knows how many Mercedes, one day we'll probably have a rally in Imotski, where prominent members will show up who's got a better one. Because here's the minister herself said, she bought her friends in the party, then eventually they found out it wasn't what, her mom bought it or someone else bought it, more at the end of the day we can find out. And then when that rally is in Imotski, how are we going to arrange who belongs, who's going to bring it there. So in one place, you have to bring all that ergel you got, but it's very hard to determine whose property it is, so how come the one who drives gets the power of attorney, from whom? It'll be all from one company that's distributed to everyone. But, okay, but we see that maybe somewhere may still be lower, so then I don't know, the world championship will go with cards. Well, then we do have a lot of prominent officials there, yours who came and competed to show up in cheerleading that there is more. Some cheer and watch that's worth 60 thousand kuna. We can only see from these examples, how far these limits you're leaving go. So I think you need to work on this a little bit more, and then I'd like to ask this amendment for the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133102	221st Amendment of Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133103	When we talk about the financing of political parties of 30, 40, 50 thousand kunas as many times as possible, then I have to say, when we talk about this law, how it actually works. In Krka National Park, a person who was a member of HNS and HDZ was employed at the same time. This is a message for young people, join HNS and HDZ and NP Krk to apply for seasonal, will have to report to the Croatian People's Party. But this now-elected director, she was chosen solely because she's in HNS and HDZ. So there is no difference there and the diameter Plenkovic was thinking in 2011 whether I would join the party Vesne Pusic and HNS or HDZ. It's through diplomatic lines. However, there is a broken law, there is a doctor of science, a Croatian defender, for 2 years she was in the Homeland War, she is not employed. Now we ask the question, here's Tomislav Bear if he listens to the minister, what does it say he has the advantage? This one that's... The two parties, if you don't understand it, would understand it means a cherry or a triumph on a map when you're playing then you get three aces, three souls, three triples, that's an acucia, so this one's accumulated by two parties, Mr. President, the esteemed HDZ secretaries took care of your party and had the HNS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's stronger than this science doctor, with a lot of work and experience and what was in the Homeland War for two years, you spat on the defenders in the face. Because it's better to involve HNS and HDZ than to be a doctor of science and the Homeland War in employment. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133104	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 222, Agent Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133105	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In this amendment, which is now under discussion, we propose a donation limit in one calendar year for the financing of regular annual political activities, for legal persons, up to 100 thousand kunas to a political party or 50 thousand kuna only to an independent representative or 30,000 to an independent councilman. This is a limitation much more significant than what we have so far, which enables in fact multiple funding, especially in the case of legal persons who are allowed a significantly higher amount of donation. We've probably had situations where legal persons donated large amounts of money to multiple different political entities, practically under the existing provisions of the law, you can donate for annual regular funding to a larger number of parties, you can actually donate millions of kunas. The number that's here that you can donate 200 thousand kuna to a particular political party, it's just, it's fooling you. The amount that can donate a legal person is far, far greater. It can donate millions of kunas over the year for regular annual financing of political parties and that is what absolutely is not good to do legal persons. Because we're looking for a vote on, I'm asking for a vote on the amendment that I've filed and we're looking for a restriction on that donation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133106	The 223rd amendment, representative of Hrvoje Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this amendment to Art. 19, and two changes and says, a legal person can donate in a calendar year to finance regular annual political activities, up to 100 thousand kunas, only to one political party, or 50 thousand to only one independent representative or 30 thousand kuna only to an independent councilman. The following is the explanation, the Proposer proposes an annual limitation of donations by legal persons without the possibility of multiple donations to a number of political parties, i.e. a larger number of independent representatives or independent councilors. Now, I'd go back to these four million kunas and maybe even have one question, like this for you, Mr. Jandrokovic. I've been following campaigns for years, and in some campaigns I've been involved and I know how much money can be made, and I have to admit that, if there were, I can say openly that HDZ campaigns are always the richest, most expensive, I'd say the most expensive, that production, say, television videos are always top-notch, and that, say, as a party always, maybe not always, but very often had campaigns that were really the best. Now I wonder, why do you need that money, why do you need that 2.5 million more extra? So with what's happened so far, you've been doing great campaigns. If you have extra money, give it to the soup kitchens, give it to the social self-services, give it to the people who need it. Donate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133108	The 224th Amendment, MP Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133109	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Yes, therefore, donations of legal persons are actually only greater. Of course, in Croatia there is really very little donation from some enthusiasm or love or a desire to help someone. It's mostly about getting something back. So there are various obligations for acquired opportunities, acquired positions, for certain conditions of business and it is returned neatly, therefore, to whoever such opportunities can be preserved in the next election cycle and, of course, that now that, there is a period of political where there are still more political players, then it is convenient to focus these donations on, at least two or three addresses and thus the success is guaranteed. So, a success called the continuation of this business, of course, that it is as such quite certainly opposed to some fair market game, contrary to the conditions in which a service or a product or some activity will be obtained for less and more quality and, of course, that all of this is reflected in the quality of life in the Republic and finally again, and this has an impact on our sad Croatian reality where young, productive leave Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133110	Amendments are now made to the 225th and 226th MPs Pranic and representative Ninčević-Lesandric. They're gone, so we're going to the 227 representatives of the God of Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133111	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. To conclude this donation story in your bill. Our government has been put on sale, but this is the liberalisation of the service market, the free market that you normally promote, and it's all in line with your activity for the last year and a half, especially in this House, where you show how the free market should function. Is there an unfair race being made? Yeah. By withdrawing this kind of money, it reduces the ability to be chosen by someone who doesn't have access to this kind of money. But, well, it's obviously an accepted fact that there is an illegal bribery of candidates. A well-known politician said, the strength of our vote should be the engine of democracy, not the amount of the bank account. But I'm going to paraphrase a foreign politician who said, you know, the reasons for my political success is not my good looks, but my personality in my pocket. He thus explained why he has a large circle of friends in politics and why he survives as a politician. You must have seen only this good practice, you want to introduce it to Croatia, so in a certain way primitive you have already done it, for the last year and a half, why don't you legalize it in the end. So no one can tell you anything, so why should they report you to the DORH as they have reported you for the last year and a half when you have both skirts and scissors and you do so And legally you can do it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133112	We're going to Amendment 228 to MP Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133113	In Article 19(2), we have proposed an amendment to the article in a way that the legal person can donate in the calendar year for the financing of regular annual political activities of not more than 100,000 kunas to only one political page or 50,000 kuna to an independent representative or 30,000 kuna only to an independent councilman. What I must mention again is this law really has one good practice, a good practice to think about a series of meanings that are actually connected and actually ensures a connection and somehow logic actually a focus towards these political parties and their maintenance. What I want to notice is that it's from the thematic objective 2. The operational programme competitiveness and cohesion is guaranteed EUR 105 million and there is one activity that is related to, in fact, the establishment of a business created via the Internet. This activity was to be completed and 13 million kuna was secured for it, it was to be completed in 3th quarter of 2017, today we had this law, and when such systematic work would actually be accessed by this project, I believe it would be settled within a month. We also have an email problem, so here I see that in this law delivery systematically this approach, and the citizens send me certain queries and say that even though there is an online registration via the internet, however after getting a solution they have to go and take 20 kuna fees, they have to go to that office, now there will be counties, there will be no more state administrations, and they also have to go check in on HZZO, they have to go check in on HZMO because the system does not know that they may already have been reported and should connect that institution through the centre of shared services Please vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133114	229th Amendment, Representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133115	Thank you, Mr. President, so to me in all this, and as far as donations and funding are concerned, they're not even content to cry, even though when there was an election campaign in Lica, so I went this one on the road and I was going through this devastated neighborhood and it was really so morbid to see these huge jumbo posters in those desert parts, so how did we get the same politicians who brought Lika to where he really is? It's a paradox, but I personally don't think that a particular jumbo poster can bring a lot of votes, which also shows elections in person after which nothing has even changed, were actually pointless, just spent on this election campaign, for elections, so again taxpayers' money. So it's much more dangerous this donation of multiple, multiple parties because donors actually manage political processes then. So, the donor of a party asks for something in return of that party and that may even be logical. So they invest in that party, they invest in that money, and now he's asking for that favor. So, much more dangerously, this provision is also that one donor can finance more parties and independent lists because it is dangerous, therefore dangerous because in this way it is actually managed by political processes, so the will of the people is not here but in some other centres of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133116	230th Amendment of Agent Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133117	I thank you, we're awake here, you're awake, and believe me, when we look at how many people on the Internet pay for this tonight, it's clear that we've managed to interest people and they're wondering what's so big that they're fighting so hard and they've written 888 amendments and what's all this about. It is our message we are fighting, here we are fighting and we are here tonight the only opposition, the real opposition that is fighting for the referendum of Croatian citizens and against the increase in the amount of the HDZ by around 2.5 million kuna and then have 4 million kuna at their disposal to achieve a brighter victory in the upcoming euro parliamentary elections. And the point of this amendment is that we simply want to limit donations of natural or legal persons to finance regular annual political activities without the possibility of multiple donations. So we simply don't want to get some, and many of them have been very often sitting on two chairs, multiplying in some way, trying to make a note in advance of who will win some elections. And so, for example. The proposed legal solution now allows it to be done multiple times, and if you have an independent list in a city that received 10 councilors, you can practically donate 30,000 kunas to each and a total of 300,000 kuna. Therefore, we would like that item 1 in Article 19 to be amended and read: “A natural person can donate up to 30,000 kunas in the calendar year for the financing of regular annual political activities of an independent representative. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133118	Thank you, colleagues of the Sagittarius. Agent Nikola Grmoy, 231st Amendment, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133119	Comrade Stranger, I don't know when I got this many messages, the support of the people who support us and say hold on. We are aware that HDZ will probably finally pass this law, that they will get hold of this money, let them choke on that money if they care so much about it, but thank you for fighting, for showing us that there is hope for this country, that there are people who have not given up on different Croatia, the Republic of Croatia in which all people will have equal chances, in which it will not matter what fellow Bulj, who has a party card, but who is expert, who can contribute to the progress of this Republic of Croatia and I am convinced that this fight will make sense and that people will realize that there are MPs in HS who really care that citizens in the referendum can make their views, here is waiting for us and this referendum on pension reform, we already have announcements of the Law on a referendum that seeks to limit the referendum of citizens. After all, this law seeks to do so, and I also think that citizens will recognize who they are who are just watching how to fill their party bag, how to secure themselves a better position either in a European institution or in the European Parliament, and who are those who are fighting for Croatian interests. I repeat again, more than a year and a half are in the HS decision to declare an exclusively economic belt, but here is Mr. Jandrokovic, the HDZ Secretary-General does not want to put this into debate because they are probably required by their friend from the European People's Party, Mr. Tajani. I'm looking for a vote. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133120	Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, State Secretary's Occupancy and Amendments to No. 243.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133121	I thank the Honorable President HS. On behalf of the legislator of this law, I would like to take note of amendments of No. 232 to No. In 243., amendments are not accepted because the conclusion of the grant treaty is greater than €55.00, we consider it necessary for reasons of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133122	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133123	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, if I understand correctly now, it means, if someone is to HDZ, for example. He wants to rent a car for a day's election campaign, then if it's a Mercedes then it has to be a contract, it's about EUR 1,000, we've seen it at Minister Žalac, if someone gives you for that one day a dachia that's cheaper, it's worth every one, then it doesn't have to be a contract, it's about like that, now I, why are you discriminating on our market the ones who want to give a donation to the car, the others don't have to have a contract, the others don't have to have a contract, so there's a little bit to keep an account of, they all have to have to have the same opportunity, or they all sign a contract, we'll have to say, what they're less worth, they don't need anything, and then they probably don't need any more marks, and then we't have to try to figure it out. I'm just saying the technical stuff that it looks like when someone looks on the side, actually our citizens watch someone come up with such a donation, they all wonder if we can win, if that's the way a party can, if a party official can get some, they should all have the same right, we should all get Mercedes to drive, not lead in bad cars, in used cars that come to our market, where other countries are getting rid of each other, but we all need new Mercedes and we need them in our backyard, and even if one of our own doesn't have to, let's stay with us. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133124	We're going to Amendment 233.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133125	Thank you very much. When we talk about this law, when we talk about donations, then I must certainly be proud of my colleagues from the club MOST who are fighting here in one hour at night, after midnight which is gone, we fight as we are and for the first time the 12 MPs have said not to overdoing, but were elections, it was the first time in the history of the Republic, I believe that the people will punish those who demean the referendums, who defile the Constitution of the Republic, who demean us the will of the people that the representative body is demeaning in this way as we see it now, we do not want what we do when we are in the mouth, that this pirate law, everything we do not, that is better that Zagora did not give birth to us when we are fighting for the mountainous parkin area, it was said Minister Žalac when I asked that it was the farsa law, that it was called us to be the shepherds of the law, that we are all that we are the shepherds, all things that were not the people of the most important, but the people of the people in the Republic, as well as to the Nationals, as to the people, as to the Nationals, as to the public, the public, the public, and the public, the public, the public, the public, the public, the public, the public, the public, the power of the power of the state of the state of the state, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, the state, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the law of the state of the law of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the And selling in half. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133126	234th Amendment by Agent Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133127	I thank Mr President, this law proposed falls within the category of electoral legislation and that is a law which, according to the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission, should not be changed in the year when elections are held. The rule is that a year before the elections are held, electoral legislation is not changed. And good parliamentary practice would respect that recommendation. We as a Member State of the Council of Europe, a Member State that is serious about this international organisation, which we have recently chaired, would have to follow the recommendations of that international organisation, should respect this good parliamentary practice, just as the Constitutional Court has said, it is not good to amend electoral legislation in the election year. And we are changing it, not in the election year alone, but a few days before the European Parliament's vote is called. I don't know if it's ever happened that within such a short time before the election is called almost a day before, it's debated and decided to amend a law that enters that category of electoral laws. That it is being discussed now on Friday, that it may be voted on, that it must come into force because we will have elections scheduled on Monday and therefore ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133128	235th Amendment MP Hrvoje Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133129	I thank you, so this is the amendment which says that Article 25(5) is deleted, the proposer proposes to delete the provision of a grant contract of more than 5,000 kuna, because the law does not prescribe that matters be governed by a contract other than the very amount of donation, it will be publicly available anyway. Now, I'd go back to these social issues that might deserve the same to be solved at this rate. I've recently seen a documentary, something in America, this about donating food, and there you have in that mean capitalist America in front of a lot of supermarkets, and this one to say stores where food is left before the deadline, on each of these bunkers writing food banks has one handsome slogan that poverty can hit anyone but that everyone can affect poverty reduction. So in those bunkers, shops put food that's about to expire, and then it collects, distributes, etc. In Croatia, a colleague of Sladolov spoke about this a little while ago, with 28% of the people living on the edge of poverty we are still here, let's say we haven't solved this problem. So if you can get an appeal to you in power that you might get rid of it at this speed and such problems. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133130	236. Representative Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133131	Thank you, well-respected speaker of the assembly and respected secretary of state, so this law is in fact rather nurtured by clientelism, clientelism which has been the cancer of the early Croatian society for the third decade and which in fact inhibits any healthy development that blocks progress. And call me that one way or another, the consequences are devastating many of our indicators are bad, we have a situation to draw a strategy for individuals to bring, say, demographic scenarios that are all negative. So it's just a faster or slower disappearance. In fact, they are talking about the lack of any success of demographic policy if it is at all, and in fact it can be difficult to be because with laws like this that act brake towards development, because I say not only that young people do not decide to start a family and raise children but also that many young people who are productive in life leave the country because they do not see it as a place where they will raise their families. Which is terribly sad considering what our beautiful country is and geographically and traditionally, and by many other parameters, so a place where you can and should live well and properly Thank you, please vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133132	The 237th and 238th amendments of MPs Pranic and representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric are gone. 239th Representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133133	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, I hope that you will understand that the citizens are already citizens, we are fighting today and we will continue to fight for the next 19 hours for the referendum, and against party registers and party bags. Once they're out, you don't have to laugh at the secretary of state if it's funny and if you don't think that's true, give up the debate, you're gonna need 3 million kunas, and obviously you need those 3 million kunas as soon as you're ready at 1am. Money and corruption destroy the country, corrupt politicians betray workers, take profits and treat us like sheep, we're tired of listening to promises we know will never keep. With these banners, people started going out on the street the moment they realized what corrupt politicians had done. For example. One Barack Obama said that money in politics must be reduced so rich families and hidden interests can't buy elections but of course, it's not in your interest. The concentration of wealth, another man is that the concentration of wealth gives the concentration of power. And then the price of the election goes up in the sky and the political options go into someone's pocket. And that's what's happening here today. That's why you do donations like this, why you allow certain people to be able to do more and more different donations and make corrupt politicians. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133134	240th Amendment, representative Sonja Cikotic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133135	We already had an earlier item of this kind, actually in the previous article, but it is also provided for in Article 25, which is that for contracts, for donations worth more than 5000 kunas, the provision for the conclusion of a grant is deleted, i.e. the proposal of the club MOST, i.e. my proposal. I'm in the government's rejection of the government's amendment by the government and the secretary of state distracted one thing when she said, it's for transparency, so we've introduced a contract for transparency. So I have to say one thing, I sent before I don't know, more than a month ago one question to the Ministry of Administration in which I ask you to submit a list of all contracts on the work with the persons mentioned in the cases for which the persons are engaged and this gross amount, so for transparency, then it would be correct for you to respond within 30 days in accordance with the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Also for transparency, it would be nice if Croatia were not in 2019 without a strategic management system, because in early 2017 Resorna Minister Žalac wanted to please its acquaintance, and later the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and annulled this procedure, the amount is projected to HRK 5.7 million and then grew to kuna 9.8 so that this year the amount would be 13 million kuna and would not believe, due to this transparency, the credible transparency that this government is carrying out, that amount, or the company that offered the best offer, was only 9000 kuna less. And it was just those mourners from that first procedure in 2017, so when you mention transparency, here's the answer you get. I ask that this amendment be voted upon and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133136	Thank you. Representative Marko Sladolev, 241st Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133137	Thank you, Mr. President. I will also look back at this transparency, the famous transparency and remind myself of the fact that the company's real owner's register has never been published and that it will only be published in a year and this is the question that this government as an obedient implements the EU directives and this directive delays, that we are entering two campaigns without that fact, but we have one non-transparentity not only in the election campaign but throughout the year, we have actually had the fact that the Ministry of Education is that. So Minister Divjak PR-ovski publicly advertised on TV and PR branded her political project School of Life, so as the citizens know, HDZ has handed over education to the entire Croatian party of 1.5%, that this project School of Life is a political project that it has nothing to do with Croatian education, we had advertising this project, and we don't really know who financed the entire School of Life adverts, so we have other ministries, we have ministers who put records on bridges, so it's the same form of campaign financing when it's not campaigns. So we always have, actually all the time, a campaign we don't know who's funding it, i.e. We know, it's funded by taxpayers, and then we're talking about transparency. So we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133138	Thank you. Representative of Ines Strenja, 242nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133139	Thank you. It's interesting this... Tonight in the Parliament, the last time we tried to block the adoption of this bad Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but I think the message will be sent tonight, and it is always so when MPs in Parliament manage to block the speedy adoption of a law, even in 12 hours or 24 hours because there is always some important message being sent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have not yet achieved what they are doing in some other parliaments, recently and in the South Korean Parliament when only one MP has kept speaking for almost 12 hours but I think these 888 of our amendments will be remembered. And what we wanted, and this is that this law as you bring, the Law on the financing of political activities, election campaigns and referendums, that such a law is not passed in this way to try to amend it to the amendments because it does not contribute to the restriction of donation of political money, but rather causes an increase in the total amount of political funding, contains provisions that will potentially enable political corruption and fraud of voters, poorly regulates the financing of referendum campaigns, and they should not actually be subject to this law at all, and that is why it is unacceptable for us and therefore you have these amendments. After all, you haven't accepted any, but at least we have the opportunity to talk about them and we'll talk about them because we want a clear message sent to the citizens who listen to this, and you can't do it this way, and you won't do it this way, and the citizens will remember how you took the money out of their pockets and spilled it into your own. Party registers. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133140	Let's move on to the 243rd Amendment of Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133141	Thank you, Your Honor. I think it would be my turn to call Minister Lovre Kusčević, boasts Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic with the Istanbul Convention, and here one woman all day, means, without replacement, sits down and defends this law that you are trying to push, if you care so much about filling a party bag, to disable the referendum, then it would be my turn for the minister to appear here in HS, not that the secretary of state of the country from 3 o'clock or when this started, at 2:30, at 3 o'clock she sits here in HS, let the minister, after all, this is his law, certainly not the secretary of state wrote it. So, it's clear your intention, but it encourages us that more and more people are sending support messages because we dared to oppose this intention to disable the referendum and to provide yourself with financial resources for your election promotion, it's amazing that we don't get certain laws at all at the debate here in HS, from the declaration of an exclusive economic belt to the electoral law, and on top of that, from the Microsolars Act to which we could make each household an energy independent, here we see that the problems, the alleged problems in the coalition with the SDSS, and at the same time this SDSS that is in the government, we have Serbs here, perhaps 70, 80 km from Zagreb still don't have the electricity that the money that's being given to the county, invested in microsolare, these people wouldn't be energy independent, not every year the county should give money, but not, you don't, you don't want to put the two hours here in full, and you't want to put the two hours in the two hours in full, so that you'll have two hours in full. The cashier. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133142	We are going to the 244th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please the Secretary of State to show both the amendments to No. 255.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133143	I thank the Honorable President HS. On behalf of the legislator of this law, I would like to take note of the amendments of No. 244 to No. In 255, the amendments are not accepted because the conclusion of the grant treaty is more than £55.00, we consider it necessary for reasons of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133144	On behalf of the club, colleague Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133145	Thank you very much. I mean, just this signing contract is really something that's being introduced, so, administratively, another barrier, but here you insist on it. But then why didn't you put it if I said so, then for those persons, even though related societies, e.g. or the persons associated with them are debtors by these grounds, that they cannot then be donors. What do we do then, for example? with Mr. Stojanović if he wants to donate from his company to rent a car, and on the other hand he has Domi d.o.o. What's in the blockade? So you can be owed to the state as the owner of 10 companies, if you have one, then you can donate to HDZ for the election campaign. ... Only if we're looking at it, so we can't let someone moralize it through one company if they have problems with others. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So then we put a little bit in a position, for example. Here is Mr Lucic's representative, who is in charge of the state, who may be a representative, and on the other hand, someone who is in charge of the state cannot finance that representative, should equalise the rights. Since Mr. Lucic has the right to be on the HDZ list in the fifth election unit, to be elected to HS where you have no problem if he has a debt, and on the other hand, if someone wants to help this Mr. Lucic, he has a debt to the state, he cannot. So everyone who supports it has to be correct, they can't owe anything, only one who would be on the list, it can be incorrect just because they're going to be elected representative in HS. If we start sharing people like that, and we're saying that they all have equal rights, then they have equal obligations as well. We ask that this amendment be voted Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133146	245th Amendment of Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133147	So you should show despite and try to restore dignity to the people if this donation is when we talk about this law where the pears and apples were put together and the referendum, the financing of the referendum and the political party for their campaigns, we're just looking at when we're talking about my Zagor or Knin, we have a hospital, veteran, General Veteran Hospital of Croatian Pride, I've given the amendment, it's also promised by the mayor of the then-Joseph Rimac in the pre-election campaign when circuses walked, when many lambs at these meetings and donations were now booked or not, it's not important, but the fact that in that hospital the state didn't accept the amendments that I gave to have veteran physical therapy, and they have a swimming pool that wasn't finished, it't known to everyone, I was also in that hospital recently and no one was showing interest to the only hospital that, which, in the Dalmatian hospital, we have the hospital in the hospital, the hospital, the hospital in the hospital, the hospital, the hospital, the hospital of the hospital in which meant to the hospital, the hospital in the hospital in the hospital in the city of Split, meaning, the hospital, and the hospital in the hospital, and the hospital in the hospital in the city, meaning, the hospital in the hospital in the city, the hospital, the hospital, the hospital, the hospital, and the hospital in the hospital, the hospital in the hospital in the hospital in the hospital in the hospital in the hospital in the city. So we're talking about political manipulation here that's the case like, the guy's the closest case now, but that's how it was in Knin. For Storm Day, you can't get away from people, for Sink Day, and come neatly, cleanly sweep all the tables. I don't know, maybe Josepha Rimac could tell you what the costs of local self-government were for those days, if all the tables were washed, all the lambs in the pre-election time, and the leprechaun prosciutto. So in the Krka National Park, two HNS and HDZ cards are more important than the status of a doctor of science who didn't get that job. It's the one that had two HNS and HDZ cards. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133148	We're going to Amendment 246. Agent Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133149	I thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, it has been half a night and it is amazing with which insistence is actually insisted on completing the amendments to this law so that he will be voted on at some point today. It is not known to me that, until now, a law that was so important to him that he insisted on a full-night debate so that he could be voted and put into effect before something and something very important. This is the first law to enter the annals of the Croatian Parliament that, following such a procedure during the whole-night debate, resolve the issue of amendments, vote on them, today on Friday, when the Croatian Parliament is still sitting as this law could be passed to the Presidents of the Republic to sign it and so that it can be published in the National Journal and enter into force before the vote is called for by the European Parliament. As if it were the most important, historically important law ever passed in the Croatian Parliament, that it must be passed in such a way. Take care of the law that must enter into force before the European Parliament's vote will be called into the Croatian Parliament's annals that must be discussed in this way without delay. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133150	Next Amendment 247 of Croatian Representative Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133151	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The explanation is proposed to delete the provision of a grant contract of more than 5,000 kuna because the law does not stipulate which issues would be determined by a contract other than the amount of the donation, and it will be publicly available anyway. All the time we've been discussing these amendments and yesterday the law is fascinated by the speed, the speed that this law is being passed and I'm always thinking about how citizens should actually be the first to solve the problems of citizens. So now I'm going back to the homeless question. Therefore, in Croatia it is still not an extension of the definition of homeless according to ETHOS typeology which would include persons without a roof over their heads, persons without a house, apartment and insecure or inadequate or inadequate housing. There is also a need for the right to a guaranteed minimum fee and for homeless persons at shelters not only for those in stays. According to the latest available data at shelters and overnights, 465 homeless persons were located in 2016, of which 388 were male and 77 women. With Zagreb, most of them were in Split, then Rijeka, Pula, Karlovac, Osijek, Varazdin, Sisak, Zadar, Sibenik and Vinkovci. However, the actual number of homeless in Croatia is likely to be multiple. The causes of homelessness are mostly unsolved housing after leaving criminal or social care institutions, then unresolved property-legal relations and decommissionings. Because of the homeless age movements range from 15 to 89 years [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Let me just say this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] This is not out of the question, Mr. Jandrokovic. [[/Aggression: You can't, you're talking off topic, you're completely speaking off topic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133152	Amendment, I beg you, Amendment 248 MP Slaven Dobrović, please welcome There'll be a vote. [[I'm asking for a vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133153	Thank you, well-respected President of the Assembly, the system of economics that is set up clientelistically, of course, that is tailored for corruption and in such a system PR is very important and that PR is of course capable of creating a beautiful picture which can often then be diametrically opposite to the truth. I'm going to give you an example, let's say waste management there are waste management centres, these are centres where mixed waste or garbage are processed, which are presented in a timely manner as a solution to the problem of waste, and within these systems there is nice money and for the PR that we have, of course, tasked with presenting this system to just what Croatia needs, and of course it's not that system. And so today we have both Mariščina and Kaštion, two centers that are quite far from what we have prescribed in laws and access contracts, but there exist and beautiful articles are written. So here's the campaign and these increased expenditures. the limits for political campaigns allow to create a more beautiful picture, a bigger, more beautiful one, in fact, more distant from reality from reality, and these clientelistic connections and these donations are of course which will enable such a nadal system to continue to be funded. The result is I repeat the same, bad, degradation, unoptimistic. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133154	Thank you. 249th Amendment and 250th Representative Pranic and representative Ninčević Lesandric. They're gone. We have 251st Representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133155	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear Secretary of State, your statement of desire for transparency will enter the annals of this House, because when you start talking about transparency, I'm left without text, after all these years and your parts, I, here's really don't know what to say. This Mercedes, this recent Mercedes, was very transparent. So far we have 10 versions of how this Mercedes was found even in the last version looks planted. It was very transparent to paint the tunnels, very transparent was Fimi Media, I honestly don't know, was it that constitutional judge Mlakar in the Austrian bank or was Gordan Dolović in the Austrian bank. Whoever he is, he's become a constitutional judge, as instructed by you. So much for your transparency. It is said that lack of transparency results from a lack of confidence in a deep sense of uncertainty, so here is the poll you are calling on, saying that more than 70% of people do not believe in the direction that this government is heading. So if you're so much transparency, how come it's happening? You know what Donald Trump said? Donald Trump once said I'll tell you that our system is broken. A lot of people call me, I give a lot of people, I give everyone, whoever calls me. But when I call her in two, three years, they give it to me. That's what you're doing with these donations today, and that's that corrupt system that you're now continuing to build even more, give up on this. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133156	252. Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133157	I handed over the amendment to the article. 25. point 6 in which the whole article is actually deleted, i.e., which provides for a statement along with that famous contract of 5000 kn. So as counterpart Panenic said earlier, he said that care should also be taken care of related societies. What does that mean? If one company actually doesn't have a debt, then other companies, which are associated with it, can still make these donations. We also warned, and maybe it can change, to actually delete this article, because that 5000 kn does not guarantee the transparency that you are talking about. If it were transparency, then it wouldn't happen to us, that in your plan to obtain the Ministry of Regional Development we have provided 2.5 million kuna for catering services. So, today, the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, has foreseen a million kuna, one contract, to promote catering services, the Slavonia and Branja project, and also about a million and a few thousand kunas almost a million and a half kuna for catering services, throughout Croatia in 2019, and all these purchases, would not believe, but they are all at 195 thousand kuna. Accurate procurement, in order to actually avoid it, means one public transparency public procurement process, in which all these data would be published and that the Ministry would actually buy the best possible value for money. We also saw the peak of transparency, in which the Ministry, although it wrote the Law on Islands, did not know how to implement it, without the involvement of an external, consulting house, but of which, after the inquiry and the media gave up. Very transparent, please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133158	253rd Amendment of Representative Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133159	Thank you, Mr. President. Before we begin to explain the amendment, just one warning from the citizens, your president, so they told me that you were using the word Bridge, instead of the bridge of independent lists, and that so you wanted to save time, so our party is full of the name bridge of independent lists, that's what the citizens sent me, so here I would ask you to speak the full name of the party. On the other hand, here, me and my colleague Bulj were in Samobor on Friday, we said, where the topic was exactly, the topic of this law, so I'm going to talk about it, so my colleague Bulj was a party participant, where there were 50 people, who volunteered in the rain and the sun for the referendum People decided and here, really, afterwards in the conversation, some of them said they were HDZ voters, so here we are, really not clear why the ruling break is treating their voters as well. But what it is, actually, is the whole of this law, and actually where it is seen that the injustice of this law, that the referendum initiatives are in a more unfavourable position with protourendum initiatives. And in this case, and in all the following cases, as far as the referendum is concerned, we have a government, which is pro-tourendum. I personally think the government should have been neutral about the referendum initiative. They had all the possible money from the ministry, so the government, to carry out their anti-referendum initiative and no one controlled them and I don't think it's a fair position, it's not a fair match, we're going to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133160	The 254th Amendment of Agent Ines Strenja is not here, so let's go to 255th Agent Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133161	Thank you, Your Honor. Therefore, it is clear that the intention to adopt this law as soon as possible, or before the election is called, is to bring it tomorrow, if at any rate possible and then allow HDZ to have, not 1.5 million kuna for this election promotion, but 4 million kuna at its disposal, as well as these additional provisions where the referendum initiatives are imposed almost the same procedure, the same reports as the political parties, means that it aims even more to disable the referendum initiatives in the collection of signatures. We now have this referendum, meaning by the union, and the announcements of amendments to the Law on Referendum, and there is the possibility that this would not be answered by some kind of initiative that would go against the ruling ones and therefore seek in every way possible to prevent citizens from making a referendum statement. We want to send a message that we simply don't want to agree to this, that we're going to resist here by morning and on, and this will last safely and the next day and we don't intend to give this up. Yes, we are already in the next day, but I also think of tomorrow's parliamentary debate, so all that's planned for tomorrow, we expect to join other MOST representatives who will be able to, so the Most Independent Lists, so simply, this fight will last and we do not intend to give up in any way. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133162	The 256th Amendment, please the Secretary of State, is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists to, up to, up to 267th, please show.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133163	I would like to thank the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable MPs, the MPs, on behalf of the legislator of this law, for the amendments of No 256 to No 267. These amendments are not accepted because the conclusion of a grant contract is more than 5 000 kuna, we consider it necessary for reasons of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133164	Obviously, fellow Panenic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133165	Thank you very much. Here's what I'd like to mention is one problem with a provision like this, which you're putting in. How are we going to determine the value of a donation received by a candidate or a list or a party? We want to set up that one committee that's gonna get everything we've got to get someone, and if there's no contract, we're going to evaluate it. Maybe lamb, that's what we can do, we know about it, it could be an average price, but here, fellow Bull, he just mentioned a good one. Which, for example, here, I'm going as a candidate. I get Mercedes to ride with him and catch me and say "wow," the candidate rides, and there's no contract. And now I'm supposed to do this. to pay the value, look how much the minister pays, I pay you that and then chase me to the race of the dog that is below the market value. Now which, what is relevant, what price? The one paid by the minister or what the citizens pay. You have to be more specific when you have these provisions because there is no delusion which is the real value because here, now, following these events around Mercedes, it's very difficult to determine more what the actual value of a donation is and who's going to determine it? What, I don't want to get into a situation where the media tells me how much it's worth, but it probably has an official price list of that car, it has an official price list, for example. We're all in the same position. Or maybe we're not in the same position, someone can get cheaper, but then if there's no contract, then pay more, so eventually, here's the minister to catch up in such a situation that she doesn't get in the official car and drive that car and means for pre-election purposes, she'd have to pay a lot more in the budget than she actually pays what she really is obliged to. So, then I think there's a shortage, and that's why we're asking to vote on our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133166	257. Representative Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133167	Thank you very much. When we talk about donations, let's go back to the referendum that is mixed here with political parties and the financing of political, promotional political parties. I know that the haste to the HDZ to bring this, however, was not a rush when I asked the prime minister here, and I was also an activist, and then I was with the workers of the Dalmatian women, who had not been paid for nine years, so they were 9 years to go bankrupt, and there was no money for it, regardless of what Prime Minister Plenkovic here said that the Dalmatinka workers would get 10 million kunas, for all workers and their claims, which the state, local self-government and all meaning state-owned companies should give up, the Ministry of Finance, to get that money. It's even promised here, however, it wasn't done. And when a subsidy is given in billions of jobs, a shipyard, which I have nothing to do with ships, tells us here and the audit says that that money has not been spent transparently or legally and we in the Parliament are talking about, the audit sends to all relevant institutions and nothing. And it's about billions. So the workers of the Designer, so when the government worked the Dalmatia workers protested, so the prime minister received them, it was their earned salary. This, both by God and by man, is an injustice to workers and workers not to pay their wages, and when these workers sought their rights, the Istanbul Convention was adopted. They haven't received their salary in nine years, but it was popular to answer my question from the prime minister, that I feel for it. We'll figure it out. It's not settled. Workers don't have that money today. At the same time as the Istanbul Convention, they referred to women, women's rights, non-violence. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133168	Next up is Agent Robert Podolnjak, 258th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133169	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Why we have argued in the debate and we reiterated in this debate on amendments that this proposed law is in the text proposed by the amendments of the Legislative Committee against the Constitution, which is actually the most important fact in everything when we are discussing this law. In fact, this law, in its best version, will, if you succeed in implementing the Hell's Plan, come into force next week, so on the day when elections will come into force and elections decisions for the European Parliament, so the same day will come into force, and this Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions and elections decisions. All addresses, all those who will compete in these elections for members of the European Parliament will have to get acquainted with the content of the law, which is the basis and therefore the Constitution says that it will enter into force at least 8 days after publication in the national newspapers. In fact, all the subjects, all the political parties, the independent lists, will have to go to elections on the same day that the elections are scheduled to know and the content of all these provisions of the law that you are proposing. And that's actually the ugliest thing. I don't know if in the history of the Croatian Parliament there has ever been an election call, some elections come into force that same day and a law that partially refers to these elections begins to apply. And that's why we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133170	259th Amendment MP Hrvoje Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133171	Thank you. In Article 25, point 8 is deleted. The reason is this: the proposer proposes to delete the provision for the conclusion of a grant contract worth more than 5 thousand kunas because the law does not stipulate which issues would be regulated by a contract other than the amount of the donation itself, it will be publicly available anyway. Now, I'd like to say something about why we're doing this right now, why we're here at 2:00 a.m. and this started at 3:00 p.m. We are working because we deeply believe that citizens' problems are more important than how much money there is in the party registers that are intended for promotional activities. So citizens should always be first. First, the problems of citizens should be solved in one society, and human dignity should be the first because human dignity is the foundation of every society. So we have 2% of the people who are on the verge of poverty, first we have to solve it and then eventually talk about it. I've been behind me for years in activistism and I can do this, I'm tired, but I can do this for two days and two nights and a third day if I have to, it's not a problem. And we'll fight for these things as long as we're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133172	260th Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133173	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Yes, the question of the contract will definitely not solve any of these amounts or these formal provisions because let's remember that this law puts so-called. The political action of citizens through the organisation and implementation of the referendum on the same level as the political action of the political parties set up for this, which, of course, have all possible infrastructure, which have a huge impact on society, especially on this of our Croatian society, and it is amazing to see the concern of the referendum, so concerned with the simple expression of the citizens' will on some issues. Well, isn't it a Swiss country proud of the tradition of numerous and simple, easy to organise a referendum because it's a burden to them or it's their wealth. What makes us consider this a major threat to the political system? Our young democracy is developing, so why don't we let it develop? Circumstances must change and this law makes them concrete, cement. It's going to regulate something that shouldn't be regulated. It is to increase the amount of promotion, etc. Please make a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133174	261st MP Pranic and 262nd representative Ninčević-Lesandric, are not there. So we're going to 263rd Representative Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133175	Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. This lex shush is in a lot of bad things but what's the problem is that as long as people are really fighting how to make ends meet at the end of the month and on... the decisions to get out of the country and not just because they don't know how they're going to survive from first to first, but they're sick of this right here you're pushing this law because it just takes three, four million kunas to shed some light on your face, to show and tell people what you see with your eyes, that's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who do you trust, your eyes or mine? That's what the great Andrei says. I'd like people to look a little bit at their eyes and look at you so they can judge you and they'll judge you because it's inadmissible, inadmissible level of haughtiness that at this moment with this kind of action at 2 a.m. you show. And there's no problem, and that's what people will do. To make donations as many as possible, however political options end up going to the market, only you can, asphyxiating every referendum initiative because they don't suit you, is that only you can. But that ultimately shows that you're actually just a continuation of the system from before the 90's, you're not a change. The change hasn't happened yet, but it's gonna happen. I expect a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133176	264th Amendment, representative Sonja Cikotic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133177	Earlier in the preceding articles, there were talks on the contract itself to be concluded at the amount of 5000 kuna, and this article overlooks the conclusion of that contract which, as I stated earlier, does not contain any provision, meaning. But what the secretary of state has pointed out in this amendment and the reason why this very proposal is being rejected is your will to be very transparent. Well, it is very transparent and clear that I think it is very important for all Croatian citizens to adopt this new law before the European elections themselves, although constitutional practice, although we know it is not good to change one part of the electoral system or the way these elections will be financed before the elections themselves in the election year. It is very transparent that with 1.5 million kunas will raise that amount for promotion to 4 million kunas, it is very transparent and the speed of passing laws by emergency procedure I think, although it did not go by emergency procedure, it was very urgent. The third thing that is very transparent is that you are involved in local and regional, county budgets and orders that this minimum amount should be for the political action of the representatives and it is very transparent that you are in this law although the new Law on Referendum is going on, means a whole new law going on on a referendum, involved these referendum initiatives because you are afraid of looking at a referendum initiative to reduce age, means not to extend the retirement age of 67 years. And at any cost you want to question the possibility that people express their will, to make it more difficult for them, to put on as complex a procedure, to have as many employees as possible, to have to deal with a number of administration instead of being very transparently respected by the will of the people. Please vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133178	265th Amendment, Representative of Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133179	Thank you, Mr. President. So the referendum is the most original form of democracy that exists in the political system. What is a paradox for this country is that it has actually made a referendum with defenders who have defended independence, its decision to disunite with Yugoslavia. So the referendum is actually, we can say, embedded in the foundations of Croatian statehood. And now this referendum, which is plebiscitarianly decided by the will of the Croatian peoples, to stand alone, is now political elites in 25 years trying to prevent them from having more influence in political elite decisions. When do the referendum initiatives come forward? When the people see that those representatives who have chosen do not do the will but do the will of the stakeholders. So the referendum on the referendum would not exist, so they would not be if Croatia were going in the right direction. And that's one logic I want to emphasize there. Different people have referendum initiatives, so when I signed for the People's Reference Initiative, I got some messages to elect... You should have changed because you would never have entered the Parliament again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agreed, so that doesn't mean if I'm going to sign a referendum initiative, that it's going to work for me and there's a difference between you and us. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133180	266th Amendment, Agent Ines Strenja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133181	Thank you. So my amendment is, in fact, an amendment to Article 25, point 8, which I ask to delete and to delete the provision for donations worth more than 5000 kuna because the law does not stipulate which issues would be regulated by contract other than the amount of donations itself, it will be publicly available anyway. So I'm going to use these two minutes to say that these donations are not needed by political parties, but some other donations are needed. And then we have a situation that yet this country has not solved the food donation system that my colleague had talked about before and that again this Easter but not just Easter, and many other days and nights, some will throw food and some will starve. We throw 380 000 tons of vertigo in Croatia every year. The data is devastating. In EU countries, 88 million tonnes of unsold, healthy and exploitable food or about 865 kg of food per person ends in the trash annually, and in the Republic of Croatia, people are starving, because we were unable to resolve our legislation in order to enable all that Supermarkets or food plants can donate to social self-services, and why? Because one of the Ministry of Agriculture was unable to comply with the Ministry of Demography and Social Welfare Regulation how to deal with that food and they set such high standards, that in fact no social self-service could meet those standards from the refrigerator, to the next, the space, etc. which is paid. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133182	The 267th Amendment of Agent Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133183	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, it is clear what the intentions of this law are, but you do not intend to, so, at all costs, you will sit here for the purposes of your party register, even though I see the president that you are very nervous, but this just shows that you are for party interests, that you are willing and patient, do anything, and when it comes to Croatian citizens, there you are not ready to do anything. I have cited a series of legislative initiatives that have been on the agenda for more than a year, but which do not come to the debate, such as the decision to declare an exclusive economic belt, I would like to have the opportunity to discuss it, so let it be at 2 and 10 as it is now time, but obviously Mr. Tajani does not allow it to be allowed by Andrej Plenkovic and you to put on the agenda in HS, we would like to discuss the Microsolars Act, which would make our Croatian households energy independent, we would encourage, meaning, and domestic industry because there are, therefore, people who deal in the Republic of Microsolars production. Also, production of such energy would be much more environmentally sustainable. But you don't want it, you don't want to discuss the electoral law here in HS that MOST referred to in the procedure and the other laws, so we're looking for improvements for our citizens and for all those who live in the Republic of Croatia, but when it comes to a party bag, then we'll be 3 days if we have to discuss here in HS, but Thank God you've got someone to stand up to. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133184	Thank you. We are going to the 268th Amendment of the Legislative Committee, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133185	I would like to thank the President-in-Office of HS, the honourable MPs and MPs, on behalf of the legislator of this law, for the amendment no. 268th Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133186	Thank you. We can move immediately to 269 and to 280, that's 269. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133187	As regards amendments of No. 269 to No. In 280, they are not accepted for reasons because, in particular, the fixing of the grant limit for regular annual funding established at the annual level and is, in particular, determined to limit the amount of donations for the financing of the electoral promotion determined by certain elections, we do not hold disputed since the restrictions are clearly determined and the transparency of financing is ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133188	Observation of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133189	Thank you very much, President HS. Now, with this amendment that you also refused, we're actually closing a cycle of amendments that were in the same topic, you haven't accepted anything from the secretary of state, here, really here's the effort of the people who are here and who are trying to explain the reasons, there it was, so we tried and visualize what problems are going to happen, and you're still insisting on it, and there's going to be problems, and there's going to be problems, and there's this whole debate, and there's just a little bit more and more of everything that's gone in a way that you don't want to talk at all about what we wanted. Here's the president of HS is already tired probably of it, I think we'd have one at least a proposal that would be good, since we have a vice president here that then, Vice President Boza Petrova that that honorary pioneering will not be interrupted by this debate, so to continue to preside, one less of us will be making all these arguments, it'll be easier for you to act like you're absolutely nothing at all, I was just as surprised at what you've heard, and the Committee on Law, I think that the Committee is a little more active, and then we would be more interesting, but here, I would suggest that you think again about all these amendments that have been, which are attached to this, means that, let's not get attached to the contracts, let's not in such a way limit the possibility of funding and let's not insisting that only the ruling should be chaired, we give an opportunity and colleagues of God Petrova, maybe by its own chairmanship, we could be a little party, and we might be able to accept a little bit less, so we can'll be a little bit less, and we can'll be a little bit bit bit less, and then, so we can be accepted. We're looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133190	270th Amendment of Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133191	Thank you very much. We're talking about funding political parties and referendums, mixing pears and apples, why the referendum? Because today we have at the Ministry of State Property of the Man who spoke in Sisak during the campaign that the refinery in Sisak will never be extinguished, he said it loudly, now that he has come to the Ministry and that politics will be left, and now the minister who manages the largest assets, with the greatest wealth of the Republic of Croatia, the people should not trust them, you have passed laws against both workers and, contrary to bankruptcy, are the only workers. All the people need is for this to enable direct democracy, we as elected representatives, you see what you have led this parliament here, that in 2 hours and 15 minutes we must defend you from the people. Why? Because you are the ones who pour fuel at the fire, you are the ones who humiliate the people, you are the ones who have trampled 400,000 signatures of a respected fellow Roman because you have to be good with Mr. Jandrokovic, because whoever he sings to, you have gone and that's why you follow him, it's the greatest politician of all time from the Turkish Empire, indeed when you told her, when Karamarko went away, Sanader went away, Kosorica went away and when he drinks to Plenkovic it's over. For this reason we protect you, as the Knin Queen, as the Dalmatian Zagora you represent, withdraw this law, be brave, do not listen to Lovre Kustević, or Gordan Jandrokovic, listen to your people. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133192	I didn't even want to interrupt you as inspired as you were, we enjoyed everyone, here 10 of us. We're moving on. Agent Robert Dolnjak 271, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133193	I thank Mr. President, the secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues, now I have remembered one detail since at this late hour we decide or discuss amendments, and today it is obvious that this law will be passed today, but even before the law is published in the National Journal it must be declared by the President of the Republic and there is an eight-day deadline for the Constitution and it is possible that it will not do so as soon as the law is signed to declare it, perhaps the check I do not know is not even in the country, perhaps somewhere outside the country on the official road, and in fact this whole quest to vote today may actually fall on that last step, because the President of the Republic will not bring an order to declare the law in this super urgent time period, perhaps it is really inadmissible because it is absent on some official road, I did not check it, but I would not exclude that possibility and in fact it is unnecessary. Because if the president can't do it within this time limit that you're going to require him to sign it immediately and immediately after the bill is passed on to Pantovich to sign this bill, and he won't be able to get into the time frame that you're actually expecting. And who knows, maybe the president is on a business trip, out of the country. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133194	272nd Amendment of Representative Hrvoje Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133195	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. which reads as follows: ‘The maximum amount of donations of a legal person or natural person in one calendar year, Article 29a. during one calendar year to finance the regular political activities of political parties, independent representatives and independent council members and election promotion, a legal person may donate a total of up to 300,000 kuna and a natural person no more than 50,000." The following reasons are proposed to limit the maximum amount of donations of a legal person or natural person in one calendar year for both purposes, regular annual financing and election promotion. I will return to these more important problems in Croatia and I am sure that you, too, President of the Assembly and you, Mrs. Roman, are aware of what country we live in. You just said that I'm talking off topic, but these are topics and they're kind of attached to this because when you talk about this, then you have to think about it. And so I would recommend one literature, it's relatively fast read, it's not something that fell from Mars, so the Attorney General's Office isn't some outside state association or something, read the report by the attorney general for 2017. It's, I call it the catalog of Croatian horrors. And you'll see there's a series of problems we should be dealing with sooner than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133196	Let's go to the 273rd Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133197	Thank you, well-respected President-in-Office of the Assembly, so you have rejected this amendment of ours that we have tried so hard to fix the things that concern donations as real, as physical persons. Of course, donations in a society that is highly clientelistic, I mean the economy, so what drives society is a crucial issue. So it's actually a way of legally repaying debts, so for all the credits, for all the positions, for all the opportunities acquired for profit, and also through state-owned companies and through various other combinations, related societies where then to the political system, i.e. To those who make certain things possible, he returns. And that, of course, is cancer-earth society, it blocks development, it creates trouble for all those who want to work and live from their honest work, who want to provide services and products on the market, who want to compete in one healthy way and who are most often condemned to failure. But if they connect and organise, of course, with politics, with political forces, with powerful people, then that's where the problems stop. And that's why it's a major obstacle to the development of our society. I'll beg a plea.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133198	Thank you. 274. Representative Pranic, he's gone. The 275th representative, Lesandric-Ninčević, is gone. And the 276th Amendment, Representative Bozo Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133199	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. Representative Podolnjak, you have voiced your suspicion that perhaps the president of the Republic of Croatia will not be there when HDZ is required to sign the law. Don't worry, she'll be here, otherwise she won't be president anymore. That's the way it is. And she made it very clear by her penitent interview, she clearly shows it from day to day, she'll be president there, if she's in Antarctica right now, she'll be there tomorrow when she snaps her finger. That's why you don't have to worry. That's for sure. What's safe? It is certainly the same that we will spend 19 hours discussing amendments or more, so HDZ can make donations available, so that it can give itself three, four million kunas, but we won't spend 19 hours, and we could even do it in a lot less time to arrange donations, for example. Schools. That doesn't occur to them. Why are they working? Well, because they're protecting their political partners, my representative. I know that one of their current political partners operated on the Neretva Valley. So many were paying him tens of thousands of kunas, the same number didn't even have a job. That's it. That's what they're legalizing right now. Now he won't have to investigate the DORH anymore, he won't have any more problems, and now absolutely everyone will be able to pay as much as they want. It's not a problem. It's not a bust. They'll make it possible for them. But everything's fine. I really hope, when you give it to yourself, and remember, once you've got yourself fixed up, you give something to others, and others also dear secretary of state should live. I ask a statement by this, a vote by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133200	MP Cikotic, 277th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133201	Once again, the word was used in a transparent manner, so here I would have, in the responsibility of the Ministry of Administration and the Action Plan for Public Administration Reform, worth 880 million kuna, of which according to the last e-mail, I think from last week, used only 17 million kuna, and according to the answer from the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, for projects, two projects that were left to you on 21 April 2017, sent to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System by me as chief advisers, had never, ever started until the 3rd month. This appropriation is intended to In fact, you have spent, or used only 200 thousand kuna. Of the 53 million kunas, you have used 200 thousand kunas, which is your way of working, and that is your way of caring for public administration reform, to reduce the number of procedures, to reduce the number of steps, to reduce the number of institutions that citizens have to go around daily, to actually climb the business ease scale, and that action plan has actually overlooked 3 goals. The first goal is to depolitize the system, we still don't have management directors. We still have the assistants. The other thing is optimizing the number of employees. You have abolished the agencies, the same number of employees remained, and instead of the 27.9 billion kuna salaries in 2018, 29.1 billion kuna for public sector salaries is scheduled this year. The third thing that is foreseen by this action plan is actually digitisation and networking. Although 380 million kunas have been overlooked for the centre of shared services, which you need to contract with Apis, I believe that you may already be working on reducing the number of institutions involved, thus reducing the number of employees, so here's the way you received the work. By that law, you can do so on that action plan. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133202	278th Amendment, Representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133203	Thank you, Mr. President. So I think it's clear to all viewers what the Most Independent Lists of these 888 amendments want to do. He simply wants this law, which is bad for us not to vote, so that the ruling break does not receive 4 million kunas. I think it's a politically legitimate goal, that it's our way of fighting, so how many citizens are going to arrive at the mass of messages of support, I think that's good. But this isn't just a battle for this law. This is a battle for democracy, a battle for referendum. So I know that the ring can be difficult to reject, I will pull the parallel with me the favorite book of the Lord of the Rings, therefore, that the ring can be one temptation that every man can take over, but personally I think that the referendum initiative, that the referendum initiatives are just a tool to reject that ring of power, because power, power is not good. So power is something that deceives what leads to, let's say in an elitism, in a process that's separated from the people, and it's just that the referendum initiatives remind us that we are the people that are chosen here from that people. So I repeat again that we will fight for it and that here I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133204	279th Amendment of Agent Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133205	I thank you, so we continue to look for the meaning of this amendment, I ask that, after Article 29, the title behind the article is added and the new meaning of Article 29a. which reads. The maximum amount of donations by a legal or natural person in one calendar year and he says, during one calendar year for the financing of regular political activities, political parties, independent representatives and independent councilors, election promotion and legal person can donate a total of up to 300,000 kuna, and physically no more than 50,000. We therefore propose to the proposed new article to limit the maximum amount of donation of a legal person or natural person in one calendar year for both purposes of regular annual financing and election promotion. But why are we even talking about this here? Therefore, much more important for the citizens of Croatia would be to arrange a food donation system because the food donation system is not regulated, the existing system as I have already said meets technical requirements that cannot meet the many poor social services in which volunteers work under inadequate conditions and do not have everything needed to properly store food, so that they can receive and have at all a useful permit. And then they have a problem like transport and storage, they can't donate if the expiry date is up, and then a few days after that, food can sometimes be allowed and used, the problem is that food is donated day or day when the deadline is up and then until the end-user is distributed it still takes more time. The legislative framework is too complicated for us, and the very awareness of food donation is still not sufficiently developed. In order to address these problems, emergency investments in existing donation infrastructure are needed, and primarily in infrastructure that is within social self-services and infrastructure that would allow health proper storage food and transportation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I demand a vote on this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133206	We're going to the 280th Amendment of Agent Nikola Grumoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133207	Therefore, the tenacity of the president of the Croatian Parliament and the secretary of the HDZ is visible to fill the party's register at all costs. As Croatian representatives, we would be happy to see such perseverance in the ruling when it comes to changing the things that go in favour of our citizens, when it comes to reforming public administration, when it comes to reducing the number of cities and municipalities, when it comes to reducing the number of politicians at local level and national level, when it is necessary, for example. Show courage and declare an exclusive economic belt, as much as it may not like Mr. Tajani. So they would be happier Croatian citizens if they showed the spine in Brussels, but unfortunately that will not happen. What you are doing is only blindly listening to and implementing the directives, let us remember the Anti-Terrorism Act, preventing money laundering where you are not, although we have suggested three times, that the register of real company owners be made publicly available, so that we know which donor, or which company, which person is behind each donation and when the European Directive was adopted, only then did you go to implement it, but you delayed the deadline. So only when you are ordered to do something by you and then not completely, means anything that goes in favour of Croatian citizens you do not want to implement, you are engaged exclusively in the fight for prey. Minister Žalac would have been Minister until the day of judgment if she hadn't dared touch HDZ and disrupted that idyllic image in public that in HDZ everything is great and everything, everything is subordinated the great success in the European elections. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133208	We are going to the 281st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I ask the Secretary of State to be read about him and the amendments up to 292.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133209	I thank the President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs, on behalf of the legislator of this law, for the amendment from 281 to 292. The amendment is not accepted in view of the importance of the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133210	Obviously, fellow Panenic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133211	Thank you very much. If somehow we took that amount, you increased it by 100%, but if we took it here to convert it, for example. in Mercedes this one of Minister Žalac, at real prices somewhere there would be 20 Mercedes worth one campaign to elect the president of the Republic of Croatia. However, when we look at the price at which it can be obtained, we see that the minister has shown it can be bought much cheaper, we see no justification. It's simple for us 4 million would be enough because for that money you can buy 20 Mercedes, but you have to go to Sibenik, but you can. Therefore, as politicians, we should make efforts for less money to run our campaigns because this is what we will do, only more expensive, we will not be rational, we will throw ourselves away, but the Mercedes case shows that we can and must have more favourable money, in the end we get from not only donors, but it is also public money. But let's also take into account that there's justification, because we see now and these gas announcements accumulate this year, the transport of municipal waste collects, the electricity collects fuel in that, the homes for old and powerless collects, the water will collect, I can understand then that there are assumptions, there is, there is, there's an assumption that some increase would be, but here I hope you don't plan to increase by 100%, here I would ask you to think about this and we have a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133212	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133213	The president of HS also laughs and the HDZ secretary is aware that he will deepen the bag even though he knows it and he will suffer it, he has no problem with it, I'm glad he's smiling, he's happy, he's full of mood, he's sending messages, and now who he's targeting I don't know, but who he's targeting is the letters in the HDZ, he's singing a letter, he's not just about the referendum initiative and the people, he's singing a song to Ivy Sanader, then he's laughing with Jadranka Kosor, so he sang a song by Jadranki Kosor, he laughed at Karamark, so he sang a song and Martini Dalic. Karamarku, so he laughed with Plenkovic, now that Plenkovic is singing, we'll see. However, this is a serious matter, Honorable President HS, and the MOST has actually proposed serious amendments to be discussed and discussed. The will of most Croatian citizens in this House of Commons is respected, you have mixed the pears and apples here, you have put the referendum initiative in the same basket with political parties, which is impossible, meaning what is amazing in any democracy you are a diplomat, you are from the same incubator from where the Prime Minister, our President of the Republic, you are from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs where Zoran Milanović is from, you are intended to lead the country and you need to know as a diplomat, a pro-European man that these are important issues, that these are not questions for laughter and that you are fighting exclusively to stop the people's will of most people If you're going to step up your bag, that's why I'm asking. [[Intruder: Thank you]] the vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133214	233rd Amendment of Agent Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133215	Mr President, the Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues, this amendment provides for a reduction in the funds for the election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia from 8 million as long as the law provides for 4 million kuna. Look, a real question is being raised after the current mandates, and even the entire current term of the current president, is there any justification to spend in the election promotion for this 8 million kuna function? According to us, an absolutely unwarranted amount too high for this political function, and that is why we propose that this amount be reduced to half because the role of the president of the Republic of Croatia in the current term has actually been reduced to protocol functions, visits to sports events and that, today, the president of the Republic of Croatia was at the match of the Croatian team, and I was hoping that he was not in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, therefore, she was at the game, about it already published in the Morning List, therefore, she is here, but in fact this function is largely about protocol events and it is absolutely unnecessary to spend 8 million kunas on elections for the president of the Republic of Croatia. Well, under the current law, we're spending $15 million in election units to elect 140 MPs. There is no ratio between that amount and for selecting one person, therefore, the president of the Republic of Croatia with 8 million and therefore We're looking for a vote on that amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133216	284th Amendment of Representative Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133217	In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with The applicant considers that the estimated amount of election promotion costs in the election for the president of the Republic of Croatia is too high and proposes a limit of up to 4 million kuna. I'll talk about the homeless again. So, for these 4 million kunas, you can do a lot for these people in cooperation with the State Department. I wanted to read it last time, but here, perhaps, you can hear, the age of the homeless moves in the range of 15 to 89 years, and about half of them are between 50 and 64. So we have underage homeless people, we have old people who are homeless, only 5 of all these homeless people in the Republic of Croatia are employed, and 22 are retired. Care for homeless persons should not be based on accommodation in institutions, but should work on their social inclusion in the local community, and on prevention of homelessness, especially through social housing or favourable public housing. For example, the Republic of Croatia has no social housing law, even countries in the environment, countries in the former Yugoslavia have the issue defined and resolved, the Republic of Croatia does not. Otherwise, the victims are often victims of exactly the actions that those bankers I had talked about earlier, whose Croatian state pays about 20 billion kuna a year without ever reducing the principal, which in my opinion is a problem that should really be dealt with, especially now that this government has this State Property Ministry and can direct some state property into providing homeless. As for the amendment, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133218	Now it's MP Dobrović, 285th Amendment. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133219	Your Honor. Since it is about 2 hours and 43 minutes, a new day, we have the right to pause, meaning by the Rules of Procedure, means we are looking for a break in order to consult at the Club about the continuation of this debate, which began at 15 hours, meaning that it is already some, meaning how much, seven, nine, twelve, almost twelve hours, this declaration of amendments, uninterrupted by MOST MPs here consistently and persistently defends the rights of Croatian citizens to direct democracy, to a referendum statement that you are seeking to disable. Also, you are only here for one reason, that any other point you would break this up, you would say we will continue to do this the other day, but no, so this is about you planning to enlarge your party register, you persistently mean everything more and more money, you will never have enough money, you can never have enough, you never have enough of this money, you have in unlimited quantities, which through state companies, which through institutions, which through which you manage through County, municipalities and cities, and that's not enough and you want these additional 2.5 million kunas for the EU election campaign, and MOST is here in the Croatian Parliament, there's no SDP, there's no Living Wall, there's no HRAST, there's no Independent for Croatia, there's no other political option that's prepared for you to have such a tough, consistent and we're not even a thorn in the eye, it's not gonna be true prime minister, it's gonna be true to me. I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133220	It's a two-hour stop and 56 minutes. Here you go. SESSION Interrupted at 2.46 p.m. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 02.56 HOURS]] Now it's my colleague Dobrović's turn, it's Amendment No. 285, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133222	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, and, of course, I welcome the secretary of state. So money, power, influence, and that is one round that of course turns and needs to prevent such a single clientelistic relationship, and that is why this amendment sought to reduce the amount of money allowed to be spent for the promotion of the campaign for the president of the country to a perfectly reasonable 4 million kuna, because we remind ourselves that customerelism as a matter of fact is a cradle of corruption from political to purely economic and various other destructions to any society and that Croatian society is badly wounded and that we really need to move further away from the circumstances that tend to such a situation. That is why this law really needs to be changed, it is wrong for me, personally, to insist on such provisions of the law, which is going to the shortcut at all, so at this late or early age of Friday, a few hours before it wants to vote would not come into force and would allow a significant amount of funding for a campaign to begin before the European elections. All together, it is very bad, so the same law has been introduced and the provisions that civil-political action, the referendum, put on the same level which is embarrassing because it is something that needs to be nurtured and encouraged and not fear and suppressed at all. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133223	Thank you. Amendments 286 and 287 MPs Pranic and Lesandric, they are gone, so we can't talk about them, so we move on to Amendment 288 of God Petrov and I will ask Vice President Reiner to take over my position. I wish you successful work and I'm going to get some rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133224	I'm sorry, I'd like my time back. Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable President on your departure, I am sorry that you are using this time to only deepen your cash register and do not worry about the citizens who have given you trust and citizens who are literally surviving today and watching them scrape from month to month. Dear Vice President, you will be enough with us to learn absolutely all the reasons why we state this bill in this way should not be adopted in this form. I also hope that you will act on your initiative not to adopt this, to adopt the amendment to this bill, because this bill chokes on the referendum initiatives, the party registers are deepened, the donations of natural persons in a much larger amount are resolved until they are resolved, for example. donations to schools, taking care of particular interests and the interests of individual political parties and not taking care of people. Today in the procedure you have more laws which we believe are much more important for Croatia than this law. The law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament that allows citizens to choose what kind of MPs they want to represent here in the Parliament is, in my opinion, a more important law than this law. I understand that you want to deepen the register and the register and that you want to create Podokin's villages but please take care of the citizens at last. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133225	Thank you. Amendment of the 289th Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133226	Through this amendment, I have actually proposed a reduction that would be to 4 million kuna for a promotion to elect the President of the State or the President of the State. This law in a very transparent way actually provides for increased funds for political promotion and, in this case, provides for 8 million kunas for the election of the President or the President of the State. If we know that at this point today, 92,000 pensioners receive that minimum pension of 500 kuna, then we know it's 16,000 of those pensions. At the same time, while the law actually provides for estradisation with increased promotion, means the promotion of 8 million kunas of political functions themselves, what message is being sent to young people who should actually work without compensation during Croatia's presidency? To work completely without compensation as liaison officers to the foreign ministry's competition and for a monthly show, i.e. for only 600 kuna in total. This legislative proposal also makes it difficult to hold a referendum because this government has managed to prevent a referendum with all possible initiatives that it has done and has actually tried to throw 400,000 citizens' signatures into a dark parliamentary basement and archive them there. In Croatia, we do not have much increased actually this turnout to the elections, it is rare that it is actually slightly more than 51% and there are actually political parties that have long been in power, killing one will of the people, that they can actually change. Through this law, they make the referendum more difficult and I will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133227	Thank you. Amendment of the 290th Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133228	Thank you, Vice President, and good morning. So here's what I'm going to do again, so actually, I'd even like to do the reverse story. So, I even think that this law of yours, which you're thinking of assigning new 4 million kunas, is a good sign, which means that the ruling majority and the ruling party in panic, that the polls that are being served every day, are not what they really are, and that 4 million kunas want to get a possible 1 term more and that this is a sign of one panic. What's bad is the message, the message of 4 million kuna, the message that donors will be this, that donors will be able to finance more political parties, we saw this, with Mr. Ivica Todorovic, who publicly admitted it, that he funded both HDZ and SDP, we saw where Agrokor ended up. So all of this is, therefore, in order to achieve a possible better election result for the European Parliament for HDZ. However, our political message is here, that we will fight it, if we have to, another 20 hours, we will enter a new day. So now the citizens are already watching, so you can think about what's going to happen in the morning, and then we'll send even stronger messages. So we want to send the citizens a message that this country is worth fighting for and we're going to ask to vote on this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133229	Amendment 291.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133230	I thank Mr Vice President, I am pleased to see you in these late hours, so perhaps we will repeat some of the things that are needed, and that is primarily why we felt that we should submit 888 amendments in order to in some way tell the citizens that the law you propose is not satisfied, that it is the law, which primarily abolishes the possibility of democratic real consummation of the referendum and also increases the amount of money for political parties, primarily HDZ. And that's why we've proposed so many amendments, and in particular, I repeat that I proposed in Art. In paragraph 1 of the first indent, the amount of 8 million kuna is changed to 4 million, and I believe that an excessive amount of election promotion costs has been overlooked, in the election for the president of the Republic of Croatia and proposes a limit of up to 4 million kuna. Because it's all someone's money, it's not someone's private money, it's the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which we could invest much more humanely in something else, and we could primarily invest in improving the food donation system, that is, in order to invest more urgently in the existing donation infrastructure in social self-services so that food storage, transport and storage would be better, because nothing has been done on this issue, nor have rules been adopted, which would allow food to be given very quickly, after learning, possibly not being able to be sold within the time, that large trade chains could be made available to social self-services. This is hundreds of thousands of pounds of food going down and people are hungry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133231	Thank you. Are you looking for a vote? Amendment 292 of MP Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133232	Thank you, Vice President. Here you have joined us in these late or early hours at 3 a.m., 12 o'clock, and we already have a debate on these amendments, but you are persistent. And you've come here to defend the party's bag, to thicken the party's bag, not enough state-owned companies, not to you Vice President Renier, enough institutions, county, municipal and cityal, but to grease and grease your neck, so you want to raise the amount for election promotion from 1.5 to 4 million kuna and you're ready here, for days to be, just to fill your party bag, and about the laws that go in favor of our citizens, you don't want to debate at all in the House. When it was due to be passed, when Andrej Plenkovic ordered you to adopt the Istanbul Convention, you gave up your faith and your titles of knights from the Jerusalem tomb. Also, when you need to do this for the party now, you're ready to wake up, leave your wife, come here at 3 o'clock, to make that party bag as thick as possible. It's clear what your policy is, instead of discussing a declaration here, for example. the exclusive economic belt, but it does not give you your friend Tajani, who participated in your campaign, your party's campaign, he does not give Croatia an exclusive economic belt, because he says Dalmatia and Istria are Italian and therefore cannot be discussed about Mosto's decision. There is no debate about reforming electoral legislation, but it can be debated about this law, which makes the referendum impossible and you want your party bag to deepen as much as possible. I'm looking for a vote. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133233	Amendment number 293, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133234	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the promoter, I am aware of the amendments from 293 to 304. It is not accepted for a reason because we consider that the amount of costs proposed is justified and is in proportion to the total amount of promotion costs in the other elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133235	Dear Representative Panenic on behalf of the Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133236	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. In fact with this increase, what's growing is the value of every MP here, we can then tell people no matter what you think these discussions here are sometimes useless, but with this you've raised the value of each of us being elected. They're going to bet you, I'm going to round up to another decimal, 107 thousand 142 kuna and 86 limes, it's going to be worth every head here that's there. Of course, if someone is in debt to the state, they'll probably break it to him then, I'd think it'd be right if what he owes to the tax administration, then break it, and then the party invests as much as that difference, like, so maybe we'll come up with some acceptable solution. But here I would have known the Vice President of the Parliament that we tried to demonstrate a little bit and picturesquely the value of one, so we took an example of a Mercedes driven by a minister, which means, we could say here that's not enough for Mercedes at what our citizens pay for, but that would be about the hood, I don't know the bumper, and what other part, that would be for that hundred thousand kuna, and if we look at the privileged, it could get a lot more. We should consider, therefore, that we do have in some way in your proposal how the evaluation will be done, because we see that if there are two values of Mercedes, we also think that our proposal, what, to remain at that old value of parliamentary representatives, would be an acceptable solution, and those remarks that citizens have on the work of this House of Commons, would certainly reflect through financial indicators. In this way you artificially pump... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133237	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133238	Here, we're looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133239	Amendment 294 of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133240	The 13th hour defends the right to a referendum, we defend against an increase in the million-dollar bag that HDZ wants to use, and of course this is a night shift. I don't feel like a burden at all, fighting for the right to referenda, not feeling that Dalmatian workers were working night shifts without pay, without marenda, without the right to transport and did not exercise their labour rights. And of course, here came a knight from Jerusalem's grave who will lead a prayer breakfast in the morning, who will lead the prayer breakfast, which was one of the greatest advocates of the Istanbul Convention, who has trampled his worldview, which was also done by Praised Jesus, Minister Lovro Kuščević, who shuts down the will of the people, which is 400 thousand signatures, and spit, trampled out, not to say much harder to roar. And of course as much as he respects the Istanbul Convention, he left here a secretary to defend this Law alone, left her in awe that she must defend what is indefensible, what is anti-national, no matter what he was also one of the major advocates of the Istanbul Convention with greetings Praised Jesus. I call upon you, distinguished academics, knights of Jerusalem's grave, interrupt this session for all the principles you have trampled and in the position you have brought to the Croatian people who do not deserve such power. For all this said, I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133241	Amendment to the 295th Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I see you've replaced President of the Parliament and I've been thinking all along about how to greet you, whether with a good evening or a good morning, and I can't figure out how to say hello at three and fifteen, actually the person you see for the first time now. in the new day, and we saw each other at the beginning of the debate, and you were probably convinced when you were leaving that no one would call you for this night's debate and that in the meantime we would end up with the debate, but we are only actually at the beginning and it seems to me that we have not yet reached a third of the amendments submitted, and this one, which is now under discussion, is a proposal for a reduction in the funding of election promotion for representatives in the Croatian Parliament and we suggest that this amount which is now one million and five hundred thousand kuna per election unit, be reduced to one million. [[Intruder Miro Bulj: in a new day.]] And we believe that it is absolutely enough and appropriate, there is no need for ten electoral units to spend 15 million kuna, 10 million is absolutely enough, maybe it is too much, given how many citizens do not go to elections, how many fewer citizens actually go to elections, and that is a good part of the invitation to mistrust in the Croatian Parliament, in these laws that are trying to pass overnight, and that is actually the consequence of their failure to vote. That is why we are asking for a vote on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133243	Amendment 296 of MP Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133244	Good evening, good morning, good night, thank you. So here we are now here at the 13th hour, we talked about a lot, and I would go back to it that this law is actually such a good slapping for all the people who in Croatia are barely ending up in the end, let's say I talked about that in Croatia we have 28% of the citizens who live on the edge of poverty, we have pensioners who live less than 1000 kunas, we have homeless people, we have blocked, we have empty social trade, we have a series of problems in Croatia that are not discussed here at this rate, and there are laws that would solve these problems, but the hunting for the parties is being discussed in this way, and here I don't know what to tell you, maybe to appeal to you as an academic, you have a certain influence in your party, yet you are in power, so maybe you could suggest there to start dealing with the real problems of citizens because you and me and we all here live in this Croatia, you see that there is a bad state. Hello, you see the condition is bad, you can't ignore it. Take a walk down the street. I am, in fact, the most affected by the cold in both you and Mr. Jandrokovic, who before you led the session, you're just looking for the two minutes... I'm looking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133245	Amendment 297 by Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133246	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Yes, the sadder the reality, so the worse the reality, the more effort it takes, and the money to make it better and, of course, it was necessary to raise these items and we don't think it's necessary to lift it up, that it needs to go back to this amount as it's listed here because the path to go is another. It is necessary to work on everything that is persistently omitted, delayed, not happening, election law, I don't know, the law, the declaration of an economic belt, the resolution of many problems that are not adequately solved in society, all of which could help to change that picture, and then it would probably take much less money to adopt or achieve a good result in the elections. But no, it goes this way, it keeps the existing clientelistically connected economic system in which the state directly or indirectly controls and almost everything goes further into trouble. I've only mentioned it more than once tonight. Last night the problem of demographics that don't solve at all, this way it just gets worse. He would certainly have asked for a vote under this amendment. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133247	Amendment 298, MP Ante Pranic, is missing. Amendment 299, MP Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, is missing. Amendment of the 300th God of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133248	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. We're just getting warmed up. I will now list the list of affairs and the damage the HDZ has done to its people and state. Fimi Media 30 million, HEP 630 million affair, HR highway 25 million, Hippo 5 billion affair, Podravka affair 350 million, Spice 400 million affair, Medikol 231 million affair HZ 20 million affair, HPB 245 million affair, INA affair 2 billion, Rončević trucks 34.4 million, Đakovština 27 million affair, Croatia leasing 17 million, Sunni Hvar 571.5 million kuna, Slavonska banka 150 million, affair Brodosplit 27 million, company Imo Machine 6 million, an affair Kamen Ingrad 60 million, an affair Salon 100 million, blinded BMW 4.2 million, an affair Belupo 35 million, waste 220 million, Adriatic Bank 17 million, construction fund 30 million, Shimatzu 200 million. Well, isn't this enough for you for a 6,000 campaign? So I mean, you want to drown in hunting? You need to drown, and now it's not enough all these millions, hundreds of millions and billions, so give me another three, four million more. Give me more. Don't choke on them. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133249	Amendment of the 301st representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133250	It is the same as the previous article only here as planned, not the amount for the President and for his promotion, but for the election promotion in the elections for the Croatian Parliament where I suggested that the amount be not one million and a half kuna per election unit, but that the amount be a million kunas as it has been so far. What is evident through this Law on the financing of political activity, election promotion and referendum is that policy estradisation contributes. So to us, our politicians through this law will be allowed to be estraced stars, to have actually pirate agents, to invest in their faces book social networks, to actually pay for all of this by citizens, instead of and therefore there is a mistrust of institutions, so in fact Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is also fighting some of the populists of the wicked in Europe, instead of actually building his authority for the benefit of citizens and actually building his authority and building a relationship with the citizens. And in this country today, 74%, 78% of citizens think Croatia is going the wrong way. And of course, they need increased amounts for promotion, of course they need to rent in media spaces, of course millions, millions of millions for ads in voice, on portals, on radios, and we witness it every day. We are witnessing that for the measure that needs to be tackled the damages that have occurred in agriculture is actually more spent on its promotion than on... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133251	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133252	Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133253	Amendment number 302.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Croatia is a deeply politicised country. It is run by political parties, not the Croatian Parliament. There are currently 13,000 paid politicians in Croatia who cost 16.2 billion kuna or 4.8 GDP annually, and it is not enough. So in all this story and these figures, of course, the City of Zagreb. I said earlier in the debate that this Law, that this Law will most favour 3 parties, which are HDZ, HNS and Milan Bandic's party, given that they have generous donors who then manage the processes of political and harmful decisions through these donors. And what are these decisions? It says where Croatia is at the moment. And yes, for example. Mr. Milan Bandic is currently paying to have thousands and thousands of politicians who are his electoral body. Of course, this law will further deepen the number of politicians that it will not be reduced, that Croatian citizens will pay again and that we are in a closed circle that is very difficult to come out. A bridge of independent lists will fight against such laws until the last man as my fans say and we will also ask for votes on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133255	Amendment 303 to Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we continue in the same tone and say that we need to change Article 38(1) of the 2nd indent to a million kuna amount. And we believe that an excessive amount of election promotion costs are foreseen in the elections for the Croatian Parliament and we are proposing a restriction. And what we need to think about, because this needs to change, is that we have hungry people and we have people without a roof. I'm not talking about people who can barely find their way into tenants' apartments, I'm talking about homeless people. I'm talking about people who are ultimately not cared about by the state, but volunteers and associations who are trying to get any donations to offer these people a warm meal at least one, most often one and a roof over their heads. So you also have within Caritas organized "The Roses of St. Francis" in Rijeka, and then the moths to try to organize that they don't have to leave that homeless house during the day, because all they have to do is sleep, so they have to leave in the morning, and then they manage to leave them during the winter. Well, then, as soon as it starts, they have to spend the day somewhere on the street, etc. It is a place, and these are associations and these are services and that is what Croatia needs to direct money for. Not election campaigns. And the Bridge will keep on and on and on for the next 20 hours saying that the money spent on political campaigns is huge, and that the huge pool of those who need our help, and we are primarily because of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133257	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133258	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133259	Amendment 304.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133260	Thank you, Vice President. So they sent you here to keep fighting for this law to be passed before the President signs the elections and here you are not in the service of the Croatian people as vice president of the Croatian Parliament, but here you are the most ordinary party soldier as you were when you were at the adoption of the Istanbul Convention when Andrej Plenkovic ordered it to be brought, you did it faithfully. That's how you do your job here now, even if I forgive and understand that with the same kind of barbecue you call sessions, even on Saturdays and Sundays, if we have to pass laws that go in favor of our citizens. But no, these laws do not come to debate from Mosto's reform of the judiciary, to reform the public administration, to declare an exclusive economic belt that you must not declare, so in the Croatian Parliament this issue must not be debated here, to the Peacekeepers Act that we want our families, our citizens, the poorest ones, to make energy independent, to cut their electricity bills, so you do not care about that. You're only interested in being up-to-date, you're only active when there's a party interest to defend. And you always have a party interest in the interests of Croatia and that's what's sad. It means that you allow yourself in general to be interested in the interests of the Croatian Democratic Union, your political party and your party colleagues in front of the people. That's what I find incomprehensible, and for a hundred reasons, I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133261	Amendment 305. It's an independent list bridge club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133262	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. On behalf of the legislator of this law, I am referring to amendments 305 to 316. So amendments are not accepted for reasons because we believe that the amount of election promotion costs is justified and in proportion to the total amount of election promotion costs in other elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133263	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133264	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here I will agree with you, in these early hours that you said something true, and that is that these money is justified for the election. And from the point of view of the ruling parties and HDZ is justifiable, because we are all wondering, what you are based on is your position,... In fact, get the citizens' trust and the number of mandates you plan to achieve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now we know what, we know because you're providing additional funds, it's not going to be earned mandates, it's going to be bought mandates. Because that is the easiest way to explain why your representatives in the European Parliament support Tajani, who again wants to tear up a little bit of us from the country, a bit of Dalmatia, and in fact, I would say to him that there is a much more serious problem when we consider it. Secondly, why your MPs didn't respond to the pressure that the Commission made to leave the INA to MOL. I didn't hear any of them. One more question, when we talk about your representative's activities, I haven't seen any of your representatives in the European Parliament, that he's got Oscar for his work. Some others got, yours didn't get. When we take just those few facts, then it's clear that you need to invest a lot more and you can't convince people that you're doing something useful for Croatia, in Brussels, then you try to buy it. So I'm trying to say, you can lift up here as much as you want, but don't believe that people will recognize it. And it was probably more correct to stay at millions and a half of kunas, which will actually show that your representatives are worth so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133265	Are you asking for a vote? Amendment 306 of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133266	Here we have now come to an amendment where the esteemed Vice President, the knights of Jerusalem's grave, where we increase with a million-and-a-half kuna promoters to 4 million kunas, so that HDZ may spend more on the campaign, so that you can strengthen the euro-pupils, to which Tajani is a fascist, who is Dalmatia, Istria, his Chetnik Alexander Vukic and his side which is your party, and also you have not even objected, because you are in the same party in the European People's Army, and that is to say in fact that this amendment so much social insensibility you send, so if you will look from your own, since you are a knight of Jerusalem's grave, Christian values promoted through the Bible, through the Gospel, then your behavior from the morning, prayer breakfast, which you are regularly leading to that knighthoodship, you simply threw yourself under your feet. You have thrown the will of the majority in this House, and I have personally entered politics because of this behavior, as you are behaving hypocritically, as one of the knights of the guardians of Jesus, the tomb of Jerusalem, simply, I don't know how you will find it in the gospel, here tomorrow you will interpret, which you will explain through some kind of life and your own understanding. Stop this, interrupt the session, side by side of the robbed people for which I demand that this amendment be voted upon. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133267	Here we have now come to an amendment where the esteemed Vice President, the knights of Jerusalem's grave, where we increase with a million-and-a-half kuna promoters to 4 million kunas, so that HDZ may spend more on the campaign, so that you can strengthen the euro-pupils, to which Tajani is a fascist, who is Dalmatia, Istria, his Chetnik Alexander Vukic and his side which is your party, and also you have not even objected, because you are in the same party in the European People's Army, and that is to say in fact that this amendment so much social insensibility you send, so if you will look from your own, since you are a knight of Jerusalem's grave, Christian values promoted through the Bible, through the Gospel, then your behavior from the morning, prayer breakfast, which you are regularly leading to that knighthoodship, you simply threw yourself under your feet. You have thrown the will of the majority in this House, and I have personally entered politics because of this behavior, as you are behaving hypocritically, as one of the knights of the guardians of Jesus, the tomb of Jerusalem, simply, I don't know how you will find it in the gospel, here tomorrow you will interpret, which you will explain through some kind of life and your own understanding. Stop this, interrupt the session, side by side of the robbed people for which I demand that this amendment be voted upon. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133268	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the secretary of state and respected colleagues and colleagues. We have now come to that amendment concerning the reduction of the projected funds for the electoral promotion, for the European Parliament's election of MPs, from these famous 4 million kunas, to what we propose, that is 1.5 million kuna, so that is what it has been so far. And actually in that amendment, where this whole one-day debate is contained, because we talked about it the most. This amendment is actually probably of all the ones that bother us the most, because you have actually raised those funds to finance the electoral promotion and therefore we have been discussing it for so long that you could spend your 4 million kunas for a few days in the European Parliament elections. And the taste of this whole debate is actually in this amendment which, I suppose you would have accepted, just probably not this one, which applies to the European Parliament, and that's the funniest thing in the whole story that this amendment is really just part of the package that we're proposing, but because of that increase of funds in that one item, of all these provisions of the Law, that this is exactly the provision that we've been discussing here all day, the day has actually just begun, not even four hours, we'll probably be discussing until, by eight o'clock in the evening, actually, about these four million kunas. And that's why, of course, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133269	Amendment of 308th Representative Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133270	Thank you. So you know what, in fact, how much this law sends to people who live in this country that it matters how much, the most important it is how many parties get for election promotion, so much and, I can say, you send it, too. Because Mrs. Rimac all the time, or most of the time you're on your cell phone, you're not listening to what's going on here, you're looking at that monitor, you're probably counting these seconds, because I notice that the last ten seconds then you're looking at this one right there, and when it comes to zero, you say you're looking for a vote, and that's that, so this is, like, the most common form, we're talking, but there's someone who listens. You are also surrounded by people who are also employed in this Assembly, who are employees, and who also join the end with the end, these are the people we talk about, not only the people who are employed here, I will repeat, the homeless in Croatia have thousands in the range of 15 to 89 years, imagine a homeless man of 15 who is wandering and sleeping in the park. I run into Donjo Dubrava every other, third day of one homeless guy who's in his '80s, imagine a 89-year-old homeless guy who, when you want to help, he's running away from you because he's so frustrated, he's so lost he doesn't want any more help, he doesn't know where he is anymore, and when the police find him in the park to sleep, he asks him to pay the penalty for the vagrant. It's the state we live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133271	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133272	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133273	Amendment of 309th Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133274	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. So, this article brings a crucially bad message, so this Law, where it is proposed to raise this great rise, so from one million to five hundred to four million kuna for the purpose of promoting the elections for members of the European Parliament. So four million kunas will spend those of course who will have it to create as successfully as possible a more beautiful picture of the people they offer, who will be advocating themselves as part of the European Parliament for many Croatian issues. Of course that does not correspond to reality, and that citizens can read very much, and from what we have experienced through this year of membership in the European Union, that there is nothing real about it, that it is actually only about gaining political positions, again the position of power and influence. And then we're going round and round, and it's kind of a kind of, maybe a circular economy for you, even if the circular economy is something else, something that is terribly neglected in this country, and something that could raise Croatia quite high in terms of sustainability, in terms of responsible behaviour towards resources, energy and pollution. However, no, this is a matrix that keeps going further, a matrix that Croatia leads in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133275	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133276	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133277	The amendment is the 310th Representative of Ante Pranic, he is not here, 311th Representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is not here, Amendment 312 by God Petrova.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133278	The Honorable Vice-President. Since you're screwing the whole nation with, you'd dare say, three to four million kunas, given the damage you've done to this day for 20 and a few years, I have a good suggestion. Oh, please, we'll give you a blank check, Bianca, you write down how long it takes for you to disappear. To solve this problem forever. Just go nice and get out of here, write a blank check for how much, I think it'll end up more cost-effective for the state because this is how you kill us dead by the crumb. I think it's a fair, correct proposal, and it'll save us both money and time and energy. Three to four million kunas, but it is not the problem of these three, four million kunas, you are actually treading any opinion of any citizen today in the Republic of Croatia, you are choking with this referendum initiative. And by insisting today at three o'clock in the morning, at three and forty-four in the morning, for your money with which you want to deepen your party pocket, you're actually talking about how insensitive you've become to the needs of people today in Croatia. I really don't know where the cheek went? Well, can't even a millimeter of cheeks be preserved, is it, how awful that place the rejected HDZs are going to, so it's so much a struggle to stay where they are, that you can't look for a moment at how any man in the Republic who doesn't have your membership card feels today? Of course I'm asking for a vote. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133279	Amendment 313 by Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133280	Thank you. I have made an amendment to Article 38 of the first indent 3 actually to reduce the amount from 4 million to a million kuna since European elections are now coming to us, this is exactly one of the reasons why this law is passed in this way, and I also think that no amount of 4 million kuna is needed for a promotional campaign. I'd also like to talk here about the project of Slavonia, a Baranja that doesn't exist. There is another project directed by this government, which is an empty Slavonia project. I come from Slavonia, Slavonia today has no criteria from EU funds, no competition in which Slavons and Slavons receive money, receive money by any additional criteria or special invitations. You also know that Slavonia is a rich area of agricultural land, and in 2019 there will be no competition for small farmers or young farmers from the Ministry of Agriculture. So there will be no fact that in these rural areas a young population that is actually built up according to 7.4 and invests 200 million euros in kindergarten infrastructure, social homes, school playgrounds and all but is therefore passed by law and participating in the law at 3 hours of the night, it must be very important to you, that it is very important for you and therefore, in fact, these 2.5 million kunas in order to further finance by promising again, selling electoral fog throughout Croatia. And I demand a vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133281	Amendment 314 of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We're actually coming up with a key amendment, actually, which is actually the whole story about it, which is these famous 4 million kunas. As far as this law is concerned, as much as this amount is being increased and one fact is that so far it has been a million and a half kuna, now it is 4 million kuna, this decision would be logical that in the past 5 years Croatian GDP has grown 3 times, so this is the amount that is increasing, 3 times or that Croatian workers' salaries have increased by 4, 5 years 3 times. But we have one paradox, and that's all there is, so it's all the same, we're actually going back, and the only thing that increases in this country is the amount of political parties. So that's the key to this whole law and what we're fighting against. Here is the same indication of what is going on in the city of Zagreb, so as far as the same politician is concerned, that the president of the assembly has increased the coefficient and that soon he will become the richest-paid politician, so he will be paid more than the President of the Parliament or even in rank with the Prime Minister and his functions are also more protocolal than decisive so that here, everything is directed towards politics, politicians and we will fight it and will necessarily ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133283	Amendment 315 to Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133284	So, it's a little bit of a pace with these young people around me today, but I'll hold out just as I hope you will. ... Okay, here we go again. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[/Intruder Rainer: A microphone. You'll have something significant to say, so let it be recorded.]] Therefore, we requested in Article 38(1) of indent 3 that the amount of 4 million be changed to a million and 500 000. So we believe that the estimated excessive amount of election promotion costs in the elections for members of the European Parliament and we propose a limit of up to 1 million and 500,000 as provided for by the existing law. This is a key amendment for which we are going to spend more than 20 hours in the debate defending these 888 amendments because we believe that there are other important things that Croatian citizens need to focus on the money that is derived from their taxes, which includes primarily the separation that they can focus on providing food to those who need food and to ensure that the food that would be disposed of in the right way anyway, which means that we have well-organised social self-services in which food will be stored in due time and then distributed. Today, the biggest problem of the absence of a rule to which the Ministry of Agriculture was to accept the food properly is to store it and distribute it to the end-users in time until the deadline of use, unfortunately, it has not been well done so far, it has not been done at all. And the food's going down, and I'm asking for a vote. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133285	Amendment 316 of MP Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133286	Thank you, Vice President. So it is clear here that you are persistent in ensuring as much money as possible to HDZ, your partners from the HNS who are already in party promotion almost from every corner and in every corner of our beautiful homeland we can see the jumbo posters of Matija Posavac. It is clear that this law was made for Milan Bandic, for Ivan Vrdoljak and for HDZ, they never sent you enough money and they sent you the chairman here to ensure that this law is urgently passed, but we will stand up to you, I don't know if we will succeed, I don't know how the president will play, she should and said that this week she will discuss the elections, but probably because of this law, she will postpone it by Monday, I don't know what she is going to do and I don't know when you're going to pass this law, but it will be interesting to watch how you are going to call around 19 or 20 hours here tomorrow, how now these MPs who are not here in the assembly are going to come, pile up to vote this law. And if we were to discuss or vote on the Law concerning our citizens, we wouldn't be, and that's what's sad, here's already four hours, 13 hours of MOST MPs here tirelessly explain the amendments because you don't want to postpone the debate, you want to pass the law, but we're not your SDP, we're not Live Wall, we're not independent of Croatia or HRAST, MOST's are built of solid material. And we'll fight to the end, I demand a vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133287	Amendment 317. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133288	Dear Vice-President HS, honourable MPs and MPs, on behalf of the proposer of amendments under the ordinary No. 317. We accept partly in a way that the amendment is accepted except in the section relating to the amount of election promotion costs in the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia, subparagraph 1. In view of the importance of these elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133289	Amendment 318. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club, there's no representative here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133290	_Other Organiser esteemed, as regards Amendment 318, is not accepted for a reason because, in the same way, the amendment of the HNS Club, Liberal Democrats, and in relation to the amount of election promotion costs, at elections and at the state level, we believe that it is optimal and proportionate in the draft law. [[Intruder: Let's move on, you don't need to]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133291	Amendment 319. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133292	Also, as far as regular amendments are concerned, 319 to regular No. The 330th Amendments are not accepted for reasons because the same provision is, therefore, accepted by the Club of Representatives of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133293	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133294	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here I am now supposed to contradict my colleague Nikola Grumoji if I think that your partner who supports your government, Milan Bandic, is not happy at all that you are trying to raise the costs of being in charge of only 10 billion kunas he is managing and struggling to get a new mandate, and you are going to increase your chances, so you will increase this by 800 thousand per million, I don't know how he will support it, but probably in some way you compensated him or you promised him we won't touch you, we will continue to support you. It seems to be such a good deal, he remains mayor, you hold the City Council, and everyone here is happy, he supports you here, this thin majority in HS, it's me that maybe there's one kind of trade that's happening through this law, and even what you've supported the amendment of the HNS Club is just saying that it's getting closer and closer in this direction. And when we look at the value of one citizen, a Milan Bandic, then we see that it's worth about one kuna, a little bit, there's about one kuna, so when you invest one kuna on the citizens, then you get a mayor in the City of Zagreb, that's what I think, to get all the residents of the City to agree on, that approximately so much the present mayor is worth, and that he makes so much money available to them by his work and by the means available here in the city, unlike most other local self-governments, all the institutions are here and at his disposal, and so does the mayor. to the government. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I'm looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133295	Amendment 320 of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133296	Thank you very much. We see that you have raised the one who holds you, who collects you here at HS, the esteemed House, the MPs as Pokemons, to ensure the stability of this government that you represent, the esteemed chairman and the weightier of Jerusalem's grave. However, there is one proverb from my neighborhood that people often repeat from knee to knee, and it reads “whoever feeds you with a cow, when you call him. ” Our people feed on bread, and we only answer and fight for the people. The MOST club's independent lists prove it today. Whose knighted interests are you defending? Europeans who pinch the prime minister like Junker in front of all the world's cameras make fun of him. Tajania, a fascist who is called Dalmatia and Istria, is Italian. Chetnik Alexander Vukic, who called in the Republic of Croatia for the crimes of the Serbs and who is a criminal, who made fun of the Croats. Whose interests are you protecting? If you stick to this old saying, “Whoever feeds you bread, I will call him. ” We only answer to the Croatian people. No interests, no Juncker, no Tusk, no Macron, no Mercury, no America, no Russia. Except for the interests of the Croatian people, not the poker players who collect parliamentary representatives here and mock this high house. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133297	Amendment 321 of Representative Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133298	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. With this amendment, we propose to cut the funds for election promotion in the City of Zagreb mayor's elections, and we believe that they are now at an amount of 1 million kunas too high and we propose a reduced amount of 800,000 kuna. So 20% reduction. We think it's a good message with the rationalization of election promotion costs at all levels. We simply have a large number of choices in Croatia compared to other countries because we choose not only members of representative bodies. We also elect executive officials, so we choose the president directly, we also elect mayors, mayors, mayors, and we have elections in local self-government. And out of a lot of these choices, we're really spending a lot of money on election promotion. And that would be best, and that's the message of our amendments, to cut the cost of individual elections, because given the large number of competing entities, a large number of parties, and we probably have over 100 and 70. See how many parties are competing in our elections, how much money it costs. Far more parties than in many developed countries where there is a multiparty system. And that is why we are proposing a reduction here to finance the electoral promotion and I demand that the proposed amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133299	Amendment 322 of MP Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133300	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Well, I actually think that in Croatia your amount might have to be up to some more, maybe 10, 50, 100 times bigger, so we all get a job by printers and print flyers and jambo posters and stands to share it and produce pâtés from which these politicians are going to pop out and maybe it could be a solution to jump out of this 58th place where we're on... business. Imagine Macedonia is 11 and Croatia is 58. So, you're peeling these entrepreneurs like they're wheezing chickens, but now you're already seeing that the mass of these entrepreneurs simply because many countries have implemented these reforms. That's where Estonia, Ireland and other countries are always mentioned. But here we see even Montenegro, Macedonia there is much simpler, much less cost. People work from Croatia, go to start a company in Estonia there to pay taxes. This young generation I've said it three times today, I'm already boring myself, but these young generations that are finishing now colleges they don't even think of them, it's them when you talk to them, I don't know if you're talking to them ma'am on their cell phone, but they don't plan to open companies in Croatia at all. They're going out. What's in it for us? And so here it's going to be less and less quiet to scratch, and then it's going to have to get bigger and bigger. So this situation that we've come to right now seems to you to have 10 dogs and one bone, and now that you throw that one bone, then what's going on is happening. And naturally I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133301	On amendment 323 of MP Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133302	Thank you very much, Vice President. Clearly, there is a growing turnout in the elections, and more and more money is needed to encourage people to round up the desired choice, so for those who offer these lists and who are doing so in some way taking part. Duing business and real life, so the real sector is completely different. So he resents this. He's had enough and it's clear that these young people are going somewhere else because somewhere where there's no such string, such an unusual cycle of money, power, influence, then around back to square one. And that's why we're trying to save what can be saved here at least we don't really have the hope that this constellation is going to be able to do because here's the example that was being set here by a colleague of Ines Sneezing on waste food why isn't that interesting? Well, here it takes effort to create from something that's actually worthless to trade, save some value, and do some good. But there's no player who can do it for that good, because it's a little threatened so, abandoned that would benefit most of it, but that's most often far, far away... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133303	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133304	I'd certainly like to ask a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133305	Amendment 324 of MP Ante Pranic, missing, Amendment 325 of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is missing, Amendment 326 of the Representative God Petrova.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133306	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I wish that for ordinary people in a piece you fought fourteen hours like here you are now fighting for yourself, where luck to fight for entrepreneurs like this in a piece of fourteen hours as you fight for yourself. I have a picture of one bit of pula that caught her and didn't let go, no matter what makes no sense anymore, no matter what absolutely now everyone in Croatia knows what you're doing, and no, you won't give up, you'll be brought here tomorrow night, 151 just to raise your hand, you'll be drawn up by the president on Pantovichka to give your autograph, you won't let go. One man said when prey becomes a way of life for a group of people in society, then they find a way, a legal system for authorizing it and a moral code to glorify it. Do you recognize yourself in that? Do you happen to recognize yourself in Mark Twain who said so we have the best government that money can buy? You're just legalizing it with this law today. It's not just three, four million kunas that you're going to get, it's a donation that will allow you to make all those on the side of the sponsors you're collecting so that you can use it, so you can create a land of wonders. Does it hurt? Does it touch you at all? Is that a problem? It would be a problem for me if I were you. After fourteen hours try, or after twenty-four hours, try to explain to people why you fought here today, why you were here at four in the morning, why you were in the Parliament at four in the morning?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133307	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133308	Of course I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133309	Amendment 327 by Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133310	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. I'm sorry they don't have here, here all day, and all night, fourteen hours in a piece, a big reformer. The great reformer, the easy, quick-to-be on the feather, the bad in the real world, but the fellow Runtic says well, now that they've raised this with a million kuna, from 800 grand to a million kuna, so perhaps Croatia will flourish in that political marketing, and maybe in fact we in the region, the whole European Union, actually print flyers, maybe we'll do campaigns for the whole, maybe we'll have someone Brown, is that Brown's the one? Maybe we'll have those Browns, and maybe we'll just export that political marketing, because I've heard that actually the party you belong to is also studying at Harvard, and that that's how we've had that, and we've had the way you've been acting in Face recently, so then here's after thirty years of your constant reign there, they say after the election, it's all been, it's great, idyllic, so here's what it's gonna be, we have no reason to doubt it for sure. Now and this EU election there will come again with some posters, as you come regularly to Slavonia, maintain catering services, rent hotel halls and tell empty stories, because there is no investment there. What you did was you predicted money in the budgets of Osijek-Baranja County and Osijek City, in one part to actually transfer that same money to that big investor, Hendrickson, who you brought in to get paid, so here, this...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133311	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133312	I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133313	Amendment 328 of Representative Mark Sladoliev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Panenic before me, so he said whether the gang members would vote for this law, of course they would, so they voted for tax reform that broke out millions and millions of kuna to the City of Zagreb, and now they're transferring it to the government and asking the government for money, and they're going to agree on everything just for the sake of stability. In addition, Mayor Bandic has 10 billion kunas for the campaign he is using extensively, so there will be no problem. Anyway, I'd be saying what's the point of what we're actually discussing today in these late nights, and someone might say, so what's it gonna get you? Here in a few hours, a few hours, five, six hours, there will be a prayer breakfast in the Croatian Parliament which I honestly must say I like to come to that breakfast, especially when people from the Assembly service who I do not have the right to know, which I do not have the opportunity to meet, and even some waiters, guards, so where the Scriptures are being discussed, but I will not be at that prayer breakfast because I believe that the worldview is not only manifested by reading the Bible and mass, but by fighting for good. So, I'll be here with my comrades and brothers, though power's going to be, even though I might choose a prayer breakfast, because I think the fight against evil, is not just about darkening evil, but building good. And I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133315	Amendment 329 to Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133316	Now we come up with an amendment that has to do with Željko Raznatovic Arkan. So, do you know who founded the Serbian Unity Party in Jagodina in 1993? It was the famous Dragan Markovic Palma, whom Mayor Milan Bandic received as a respected politician and president of the Jagodina Assembly in our Zagreb capital of Croatia. The day before, he laid a crown on the grave of the dead hero Blagoja Zadre and welcomed a man who only a few months before our president mentioned that he had made a decision to reward the greatest war crimes and genocide since World War II, so the storm led by our Gotovina and Markac. Well, that's why he spit in the face of all the citizens of Zagreb, but also the citizens who love this Croatia and who have a heart and who have fought for it, which is why you should have accepted this amendment in order to prevent the mayor of Zagreb from laughing again in person and spending a huge amount of money for his promotion because it is the money of the citizens of this country. It's the money he's taking that they've singled out and he's going to invest that money in his election. So we asked that Article 38(1) of the fourth indent be changed to 800,000 kunas. Here, 200 grand we just took off although he always finds a way to turn it into 20 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133317	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133318	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133319	Amendment 330 of MP Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133320	Thank you, Vice President. So here's the 13th hour since we've been discussing the Bridge amendments where we're trying to send a message that you're just ready to do everything for money, you're ready to argue all night, you're willing to leave one woman here alone to defend this one or to refuse the Bridge amendments just to deepen your party register. I wish you could invest so much energy to change things in Croatia. For our people who are blocked, for our farmers, for our emigrating Slavonia, for our Dalmatian Zagora, for our like, for our entrepreneurs you want nothing to do. You don't want to sacrifice yourself at all. You don't even want to accept it when you're helped or when you're given a specific amendment. When the legal proposals are made, you do not want them to be debated at all. But in order to secure yourself as much money as possible, you're willing to sit here for hours and I have to say this is the second time you've really disappointed me, Vice President of the Parliament. For the first time, it means no matter who the worldview is, but if you have a certain worldview, then you need to follow those attitudes when you rebelled in front of Andrej Plenkovic and supported the Istanbul Convention, and now for the second time academic Rainer, when you sit here just to enlarge the party's register, as a real party soldier you're standing residentially means no reactions to your face. You're just waiting for this to end as soon as possible and for that money to land in the HDZ cash register.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133321	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133322	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133323	Amendment 331 of the following 12 amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133324	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. On behalf of the proposer of this law, I am aware of amendments under regular number 331 to 342. The amendments mentioned above are not accepted for a reason, as Article 38(1) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council accepts the comments of the Club of Representatives of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133325	In the name of the Club, the esteemed representative Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133326	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. But when we look at what our mayors are doing, not ours, yours, which should be from all of us, then what we're supposed to be doing is a lot. When we look at the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina chasing journalists with the help of the police, when your former rogue Mayor Milinovic is being harassed by the Sheriff's Department of Licko-Senj County, when we look at Mayor Tomasevic of Požeko-Slavon County who beats his wife, when we look at the senior mayor of Ževrna, who, by the law, gives concessions what can we conclude? We can conclude that we were wrong about our amendment. We should've said we should've deleted the word "captain". Consciousness to zero as the county should also be conscious, then our actually amendment of colleagues from the Independent Lists Bridge would be more accurate. And I think we were wrong to formulate this. We should've made one correction, which is where the mayors are going down, and as far as the mayor's concerned, we're going down. If we change that structure then we could say that we can discuss perhaps some better times that will be for Croatia. But it seems to me that the HDZ they got support, the German president came and he said – don't be afraid, you're great, so we in Germany are losing millions of people a year. Imagine us being so terrible that if we lost a million people, in four years there wouldn't be any more of us here in the Parliament, that's your result.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133327	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133328	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133329	Amendment 332 of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133330	Thank you very much. The County since the County of Split-Dalmatia has never been more of a budget since the club where I am the bridge of independent lists is the second political option in the Split-Dalmatia County Assembly. And ever since it was founded, it's a huge amount, new portals are being paid to their councilmen in cities. Mayor Boban is acting so arrogantly that it's amazing, I even suggested that I be an amendment one to reduce the amount of 2 million kunas that the county singles out for political work, to reduce that. on the kuna and the kuna and ten for political work, however, it was of course a huge resistance. Since the County of Split-Dalmatia, in Dalmatia, from Krka to Neretva, 36 units of local self-government, we have 150 000 inhabitants less, no children's crying, institutions are closing, what is the purpose of these counties? I'm going to run for mayor to fight, I almost became a eater, I'm going to shut down the county because it has no purpose, it's a flow water heater that's full of stones, they're the only ones who build and build, it's employment, I've also made a proposal to build one floor project documentation that they can get their earpieces inside because people are out in the halls and in the cafes, the county's graves of the Dalmatian mountain, Slavonia. I'm asking for a mandatory vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133331	Amendment 333 of Representative Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133332	Mr. Vice-President HS, the esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, my next amendment refers to reducing the cost of election promotion to mayors and mayors of large cities, and we propose a reduction from the current 600,000,00 kn to 400,000,00 kn according to all other restrictions and reductions we propose for certain types of elections, from national to regional and local, and we propose this restriction with a clear message that we consider that spending money on election promotion must be lower, and in accordance with, unfortunately, and much smaller voter exit and local elections, because especially in the mayors and mayors' elections, you have a very low rate of voting and therefore there is no justification to allocate and a further high amount of funds, especially which would be much more high quality and objective election and money to spend proportionately, proportionately the number of citizens who are not able to vote, and would not be able to correct the vote forreasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133333	Amendment 334 of MP Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133334	Thank you. So this law actually sends one completely wrong message, I've already said it a few times, it's such a slap to everyone but you and yours. I don't know who's doing this to you, who's designing your communication, but he's really doing a bad job. For example. When your prime minister or prime minister on the issue of moving young people says that they only actually use their right to move freely, it's a wrong message, it's a slap team that emigrate. It was only when I first heard him say it, that I remembered in the 1990s when Yugoslavia fell apart, so Milosevic and the team told Slovenians "go as soon as possible". When I mention employees here in HS, you laugh, it's also the wrong message. Your staring at your cell phones all night is also the wrong message. It was recently some, I don't remember what affair, something was happening again, and you're having 60 affairs every day, so the prime minister commented that he expects there to be a big protest on Saturday, it's a mockery, it's also a guilty message. And you keep sending the wrong messages, and people see it, and then what do you do with the wrong messages? Then you iron them with these fake polls. These polls when you compare them to, these three different polls that are being done, now this big new one on HRT, it's a kindergarten, when you compare them and then you're still bringing these analysts that are a muppet show, so, they, them, that their analysis you're looking at retroactively nothing ever hit. I insist. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133335	Amendment 335 of Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Yes, here are 14, 13, 14 hours of continued work on rejecting amendments to the law that you are passing by regulations, regulations and good parliamentary practices you have not provided more generous funding in a campaign that should begin within a few days. So, the law in which you have indeed made a very, very awkward combination, on the one hand, strengthens the political position, therefore, the powerful, political establishment that leads, therefore, everything, almost everything in this country, on the other hand, suppresses the referendum as the most desirable form, otherwise the most desirable form of political action. So it's a direct statement of the people and it's brought into relation to the political action of political parties in an entirely unusual, unnatural and unacceptable way where it actually seems all to make it difficult for any statement, therefore, in the near future. Of course, it is also linked to what we have experienced with the recent two referendum initiatives where the will of 400 thousand people who have therefore signed under very difficult conditions for these initiatives has literally been affected.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133337	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133338	I'm certainly looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133339	Amendment 336 of MP Ante Pranjic. He's gone. Amendment 337, MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. She's gone. Amendment 338 by God Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133340	Dear Chairman, the referendum is the most important expression of the people's will. The referendum is a way in which all citizens can express their views on the most important issues related to their country. What are you doing? Give them reports to write. We'll entertain them with reports, choke on referendum initiatives. Why would it matter to us what the citizens think? They're not here to think that's your attitude. They're here to be sheep who'll cut their hair. After that, in the same law, think probably how to catch more, so let everyone organize offices, let them hire no harm. Then in the end, you still salt it with another couple of million in your party account. Perfect. And all of this you represent as something good for people, well-being, well-being. stability. I hope you've read the law, and I believe, no matter what you're trying to stay uninterested to hear a lot of things and that you understand a lot. And I believe that the same way we will have the opportunity to meet people tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a week or a month on the inflow, and that you will be able to explain to them why you raised your hand for a law like this. The more corrupt the country is, the more laws it has said Tacitus. And you're just making more laws and more laws like this, everything will be remembered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133341	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133342	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133343	Amendment of the 339th Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133344	I must say again, I am very sorry that there is no great reformer here to present to us this enormous discovery in the promotion, the political promotion and the insurance of money. If the county is to be abolished, the county should be abolished. And as for the promotional cost of the election promotion here alone in the mayoral and mayoral elections for the big cities, you've predicted 600 thousand kuna, we've reduced it to 400 thousand kuna. But what I would like to compare, earlier in this law, you said one more thing. You said that by this law, it is this law that you prescribe that compensation for the political action of representatives in the county congregations cannot be less than 5,000 kuna. I will only remind you that Croatia has suffered a demographic breakdown, that children have never been born less 100 years ago, according to the prosecutor's report for gender equality, that children's allowance per child is 200 kuna, 250 kuna and 300 kuna, that this is at an annual level of 2 thousand and 400 kuna, 3 thousand kuna and 3 thousand 600 kuna. The right to that largest children's allowance is 300 kuna per child have those families that have 534 kuna per household member. 534 kuna per household member means and those per year can achieve this child so it is a child's right, the child's allowance is the right of the child 3 thousand 600 kuna. And here, for the political action of representatives in the county assembly, a minimum amount of 5 thousand kuna is foreseen. I just want to say, will come now and the second shift and probably...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133345	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133346	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133347	Amendment to the 340th Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So let me remind you, exactly two years ago, the Bridge, with its amendment, abolished political parties to all, including us, Bridge 15 million kuna and awarded the Foundation, the Croatian Foundation for Science. So these 15 million kunas did not save Croatian science, but they also sent a message. The message was that we Bridgers believe science is more important than political parties. This law sends a message that parties are most important in the Republic of Croatia, more important than citizens, more important than all possible needs, than humanitarian actions, from poor citizens, so all subordinated to them. The referendum as a form of expression to remind me, the Croats pleaded at the first referendum on secession from Yugoslavia and now this form of decision that is the highest in democracy, the ruling majority will try to marginalise it because of their political interests. So I repeat, the referendum, the referendum initiatives happen when people are dissatisfied with power, so they don't come by themselves, but that's kind of their goal. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133349	Amendment 341.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133350	Thank you. As you can see, MOST continues to insist as the only real opposition in HS to fight against such a bad law, which is the only goal of preventing the greatest democratic right, which is in one parliamentary state, the referendum declaration of citizens, and also to prevent an increase in the amount allocated to HDZ to achieve a bright victory for the European Parliament's elections. And that's why we believe that in art. The 38th century 1st indent 7th amount of £100,000 should be changed and the amount of €60.000,00 is considered to be too high the cost of pre-election promotion in the election for mayor and mayors in the units of local self-government from 3000 to 10,000 inhabitants and we therefore propose this restriction. And we don't understand that you don't realize that citizens are sick of these political parties, they're tired of spending their money on political promotion, and they're tired of being forced into local budgets for the benefit of political parties, 570 local self-government have other priorities than those that HDZ considers to be the most important, which is a brighter victory in all elections, and after that, a continuation of the exploitation of all what is actually common assets and fluids of all citizens of the Republic. There are so many problems in local self-government There are so many needy people who need to redeploy money, which is why we're against it. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Yeah. [[/Intruder: Are you looking for a vote or not?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133351	Amendment 342. of Agent Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133352	Soon it will be 14 hours as MOST's here persistently defend their amendments and the right to democracy, the right to a referendum statement of citizens, but also how we want you to be party soldiers who are not concerned about the interests of citizens, at least make you sweat a little to get to the 2.5 million kunas you want so much, at least we want to torture you a little bit, and the question is whether you will eventually succeed, but even if you succeed, we will at least know that we have tortured you, that we are the only opposition that you have here at HS opposed, there is no one here, no SDP, no Living Wall, no other political parties, so we want to send you a message that you are now sweating and that you are struggling with the dream and the fact, means that you must be here instead of being home in bed, that at least 10% of it is hard to work out and try to change certain things in our own laws, so that there are no mattering the rules that you can be made. Look at me, academic Rainer, don't move your eyes, don't hide, I know you're uncomfortable here right now. To defend party interests. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133353	Amendment 343 and the next 12 amendments, please welcome State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration Katica Prpic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133354	Dear Vice-President HS, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, on behalf of the amendment's no. 343, 354, are not accepted for reasons because the same provision accepts the comments of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133355	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133356	Thank you very much, but something disagrees, it's not the same, we're proposing 150,000, you've accepted 200,000, your proposal was 250,000, so it's not the same, and you can't tell us that it's the same thing, and when we look at 14 hours that it's gone, we could go to Sibenik twice, we could agree better terms for someone who would buy Mercedes, we'd certainly be much more effective, than we're talking about here, we should try and fight to be lower priced, the lower price of choice, but it seems to me that we'd be more effective if we went to Sibenik and there were negotiating, then Mercedes would become a people's car, but as long as this government has, with these proposals, our people would never have Mercedes, but never... but good, but it won't be Mercedes, and that's what's sad, so we're willing to invest for the campaign and spend as much as we should, not always do something wrong, but they always say you've adopted there in HS, it's not us, but those on the left, those on the presidency and those on the right and those on that side of our left, but none of them have given themselves the effort to sit together and go to Sibenik, they'd drive both Mercedes and the Croatian people would have Mercedes and they'd all have lived better, just the effort that Vice President Petrov had made, so much effort to make for our people, we'd all be driving Mercedes, no one would move, and then we'd have to comfort the German president that we really need to do something to fix the situation in this country is no longer going to do this kind of work, if we had a million people leave them, but here we'd have a better idea of their own. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm asking for a vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133357	Amendment to the 344th Representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133358	While we are fighting colleagues here, Minister Lovro Kuščević sleeps in a warm bed, cares for him, is aware that he will receive a few million kunas in his bag, that he will be well oiled. But you are not the chairman of the world; why do you worship as a knight of Jerusalem's tomb with a golden calf? Why do you kneel? Don't kneel, rise up, you'll be leading a prayer breakfast in the morning, interpreting the Gospel. The golden calf was never brought to any nation, nor to the people who came out of Egypt when they worshiped the calf with gold, and you look empty and hollow into the empty part of the assembly, do not look at us congregation representatives, rise up, bow down this session, tell the golden calf that he is not your God, that the coins are not your God's gold, but that which you will say at the prayer breakfast tomorrow, as every year, yet you are a knight of Jerusalem's tomb. He would ask you colleagues and colleagues to endure, a lot of people suffered in this Republic, a lot of women who did night shifts, who didn't receive salaries, a lot of them in trade chains work for nothing, literally free, they don't have to marenda to their children, we don't have secured health services in 2/3 of the RH. And that's why I'm asking for a vote... [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133359	/Intruder: Amendment 345...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133360	And don't bow down to the golden calf anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133361	...Advocacy of Robert Dolenjak, he's gone. Amendment of 346th Representative Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133362	Thank you. Now I've been drinking a little water, my mouth is dryer than this, and I'm going through these halls and I'm looking at you and you're going to see these Croatian giants. And I have one, I don't know right now, exactly today, if it counts for virtue or fault, but I spend a lot of free time reading and then I think about what these people said, what they wrote, you who'd be out there thinking about who you'd remember Croatian history in 100 years, for 200 years, nobody. I'm sure that's where you'd be out there when they said they were looking people in the eyes and when they were talking to other people like them that they looked them in the eyes, you don't look people in the eyes, which is what it is, I don't understand, why we can't talk argumentically. If I were to talk to you about something and you were right and convince me of the arguments, I'd say let's do it first. You won't be ironed by those falsely paid polls, neither will those quasi analysts you keep bringing in on your televisions. I was listening to one tonight, so I laughed, and I laughed so sweetly when he said here's what this is like, and if this were like this, then it would be like that, but what would be like that, and it wouldn't be like that, then he'd say, look, it's not like that, but this would be like this if it were, that's what these court analysts come down to. That means, I often remember, I grew up on Monty Peyton, and that's all Monte Peyton to me. Of course, I insist every time. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133363	Amendment 347 by Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133364	There he is, thank you, well-respected Vice President HS. So, we defend our amendments, the amendments to which we are trying to make bad law fix as much as possible and change this terrible impression that it gets because a lot of bad things here seem, we have mentioned a referendum that is placed in the position of unwanted articulation of the will of the people, which is the political system of great fear and wants to control it terribly, so it is important to see exactly how it is financed, which are donations, how accounting is conducted, where and how it is organised, just as it is required by political parties to organise political work. These same political parties that have led this country out of a position of net liberation for nearly three decades, so where people died and blood built freedom, where there was a great enthusiasm and the will to create a happy prosperous future, all together dead, and now we have a situation for young people to flee across the border, I don't know how much we're going to do here today in this debate, but I think it's worth fighting because it's too big the price paid for freedom. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I'm asking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133365	Amendment 348 by MP Ante Pranic, is missing. Amendment 349 by Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, not available. An amendment to the 350th Amendment of the God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133366	Dear Vice President HS, you know what's going on today, what's happening right now? You're measuring yourself, and I'm just glad it's happening live and of course it'll all be remembered. And you know why you measure yourself? Because they say that the measure of man is what he does with power, you are currently in a position of power and you are measuring yourself in a way that is currently 4 hours and 48 in the morning and already 14 hours you're struggling to get those 3-4 million kunas. In addition to all the laws, the draft laws that have been in the process for years now and you don't want to do anything about it at all. Please don't have to answer, but think inside you is the exclusive economic belt more valuable than this? I believe you'll answer yes. Is it a way of selecting parliamentary deputies to just choose these MPs by name and last name, so there's no more political trade than this? I believe that you will answer in yourself that it is, but you will also pass the honored vice president's time when you have the opportunity to change something, this will not last forever, don't one day regret it when you could change things, but you were afraid, you were afraid, this is not the time for scary people, I ask you to stop and start fighting for ordinary people, not your own party. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133367	Amendment of the 351st representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133368	I am extremely sorry that there is no great reformer here to present this great work in the promiscuous sense, the whole law is a promotion, and then finance the promotion, I guess. Then what I would like to say is, I just said the Republic of Croatia is ahead of a demographic breakdown, you are predicting 5,000,00 € minimum that in the representative body of the county they have, meaning, compensation for the political action of the party, it is very important, especially when we know that in RH 2,400,00 kn is an annual child's allowance, that is 3,000,00 kn and in that highest category 3,600,00 kn. In a few hours, all the citizens, it's Friday, it's work day, they're gonna wake up and they're gonna find us here and I'm already getting countless messages and now, and at four o'clock, and at three o'clock, and they're gonna say we can't believe, we can't believe they're fighting for promotion because there's a really bad picture, there's a really bad picture of you out there. In a country where reforms are not seen with a naked eye, in which you do not use EU funds, in which no such low growth rate of 2.6% has ever been recorded, in fact the only thing that is growing is GDP per capita. And you know why? Because people move out, not because we're so rich on the head of the population. In person when the last one remains, it will be the richest in the village and that is why we have just suggested that this promotion be reduced in all the articles, to reduce the stradification of policy because we believe that the citizens have had enough of it, and that that is what they say and bear witness to all the messages we received in the past 15 hours and I will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133369	Amendment 352 of Representative Mark Sladoliev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here, in these late nights, people are sending messages, and I'm especially glad that young people are following us, and here's my former student Nina Pese, who is sending a message, "Just hold on, professors, this is a fight for us, for young people," and because of these people, we are here. This debate on this law will enter the anals of HS, but it will remain and recorded by the fact that HDZ has debated, therefore, that it has held 20 hours of debate over 4 million kunas and that is the message, a message to young people leaving the Republic of Croatia, who have no more hope, so the message is that we are fighting for political parties, not for you. Croatia's country, the Croatian state currently has 13500 paid politicians and 4.8 GDP goes to the salary of politicians, and after this law, it will grow slightly. So, we want to change that trend and before we want to change it, so we don't think it's a fair game, especially not a fair game in the referendum provisions where they're actually pro-tourendum initiatives, and the government is the biggest pro-tourendum initiative, for them there's no administrative, therefore, imposition, and for the referendum initiatives yes. So we're gonna fight and I'm also looking for a vote. on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133371	Thank you. Amendment 353 of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133372	I thank Mr. Vice President, and I will repeat once again that we are all together, and I, in particular, requested that in art. The 38th century 1st indent 8th amount of 50,000,00 kn is changed to 30.000,00 kn because we believe that the amount of election promotion costs is too high in the mayoral election and mayors in local self-government units with less than 3,000 inhabitants and because of this restriction we are looking for. At this moment after all these hours, I would like to apologize to all the employees of the assembly who are here tonight for our struggle for the democratic right of Croatian citizens who will be presented with a referendum and for not throwing in such a large amount of funds and money to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I apologize because they are forced to be all these hours here, but it is not all on our soul but also on yours because you are not willing to withdraw a little bit more and more to fight for all these millions you want to crash into this campaign, in order to have the best and most beautiful campaign for European elections. I don't know if you'll pay them overtime, some citizens in Croatia don't get paid, they don't even get paid, they have insecure jobs, they have safe jobs but the salaries in the Croatian Parliament are what you certainly know extremely low. And then they still have this many hours of continuity to be here as long as the session is going on. I apologize to them all on behalf of the Most, but I hope they recognize that this is a fight for all of us. [[Intruder: Ask for a vote.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133373	Amendment of the 354th Representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133374	Thank you. So here's five o'clock in the morning, already 14 or 15 o'clock more, and I don't know what statements about the amendments and you mean for that kind of money you're ready to keep going with this session even though this can be discussed tomorrow, it can be discussed next week, anyway this wasn't even on the agenda at all. We were supposed to discuss the legal proposals we got on the agenda this week. But no, it's your interest to pass this law before the president calls the election and then you come across resistance. You're used to being able to grease, so you can buy, you can't buy, you can't oil us, you can't buy us, you can't stop us. So we've always given you resistance, we're the only political option that has raised ethical standards in Croatian politics while MOST was part of the ruling majority, the ministers have left, now the ministers are only leaving when they say they're being planted inside HDZ, when they break that idyllic image of HDZ in public, and we all know it's not idyllic, and when it cracks, it'll smell bad, when that ulcer cracks, but you don't care, you push on, you want as much money as possible, and that's all you care about. No legal proposal means that someone is suggesting from the opposition that the assembly is meeting for 3 days to pass I don't know 5 laws that go in favor of our citizens, then they would say no. He can't because it's an opposition, but when you need to get a bigger bag, then he can. I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Ask for a vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133375	Amendment 355 and the next 12, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133376	On behalf of the Proposer of the Amendment under regular number 355, 366 are not accepted for reasons because the same provision accepts the provision of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133377	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133378	Thank you very much, I spoke last time, it's not the same, let's do it one more time, it's not the same. It's not the same 80,000 that you accepted with the HNS amendment, and it's not the same 60,000 he suggested to me, and I would ask you not to tell us it's the same. When 60 and 80,000 is the same then Mercedes and fico will be the same, however, it is not. But here's what I really liked was the clarification of this amendment, the thinking of fellow Runtic, when he said we spend a lot of time reading. Unfortunately, the laws are so written that we have to study them really well, read them, and then when this many amendments of 888 appear in such a short law, there's probably a reason why. What's even more important is that we read them with understanding, we read what the proposer in them, in this case HDZ with its satellites wants to happen, and that's to be filled, according to counterpart Grmoja bag, pocket and everything else where it can fit and spend it on the PR exclusively, we don't have a result, but we have a PR. And this government will be remembered by the fact that the PR has become the most wanted interest in the Republic of Croatia, if you can't do something then you say you did the right thing and then you bring in the greatest expert of the German president who says don't suffer at all for this situation because it's even worse for us. A million people in Germany go out, so Plenkovic's government with these departures that are actually perfect, much better than Angela Merkel. What is more important is that the proponent reads better would be much better for the nation. We're looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133379	Amendment 356 of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133380	Thank you very much, not only are you holding back direct democracy and what you are taking away the constitutional right of the people to make a direct decision, the right to a referendum but you nonstop, you constantly deceive this people by passing laws that no one is in the interest of the people. In the interest of the man in the center of the man. You only bring laws in your own interest and you fatten your bag and it is your only, unique interest and where you serve as obedients, in this case Brussels, and throughout history many have served Belgrade, Vienna, Budapest, and now here is Brussels or Germany, it does not matter, but in continuity now that we have a Croatian state instead of serving the people, we are exclusively passing the law in the interests of the people, you do not want, you are violating the constitution of this bill. It happened similarly, but then the Hungarians were in power in 1875, 124 years ago. When Khuen-Hedervary got his writings in Budapest, then Josip Gržanić kicked him out with his foot, the Zagrebs rebelled, closed them up, banned them from being in HS, but it seems to me that the time will come when you will also get a scream from the Croatian people I call upon the people to resist and for resistance [[/Agreement: Are you marketing a vote?]] I demand a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133381	Amendment 357 of Agent Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133382	The whole story of this day's, all-night debate, about this proposed law has actually begun, I think, on the Committee of Legislatives when it comes to my question that this law will apply after the European Parliament's vote has been called into force, that in the midst of the proposed elections, the law which is scheduled to be applied 8 days after its publication in the National Journal has been applied, the president of the Legislative Committee has been responsible for amending the provisions on the entry of the law into force and that the law will enter into force, not 8 days after the publication, but the day after the publication, and there is, in fact, on the Committee on Legislative Interventions, it is necessary to take action in accordance with the law, and it has already been possible in the light of the fact that the fact that, in fact, in fact, it was possible and the law that it should have already been passed in the law that it was adopted in the first place, and that the law that it should enter into the law that the law that it should be passed, and the law of the law that it should enter into the law of law that it should enter into the law. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133383	Amendment 358 of MP Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133384	You know, this last recession lasted about 8 long and very painful years, not here on Mark's Hill, and that's where those painful years didn't feel, and I don't think there were any changes in the salaries of MPs, etc., but down there among small craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, small family farms, it was long and painful. Then the Croatian media, as far as they can believe it, but they wrote about the collapse of over 100,000 small OPGs, small crafts etc. A good part of them ended up in debts that were then interested because they couldn't collect what they needed to collect and there was a state, or created some kind of... So these people don't fall and fall, and neither did the state do anything, it's just politics, no politics, so head in the sand and wait for it to pass. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, they got killed, just dumped in the trash. In that period we entered the EU and people started to leave, and that's how it's going to happen to you in the end as in that jeljko pervana joke that at the end here from Mark's hill one day everyone's going out and nobody else is going to be in the Republic, just going to be politicians, and everyone's going to be gone. Because you don't care about people. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133385	Are you asking for a vote? Well, then say it, that's why you're here. Amendment 359 of Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133386	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Here while we are discussing amendments to this law that have come urgently, unusually quickly reached the mature stage of the parliamentary procedure, thinking about what these changes are making, coming with this law means for one, one young family in Slavonia or in Dalmatia Zagora or Gorski Kotar, Istria, one family that has difficulty and employment, which looks at the possibility of solving the problem of home, therefore, housing, which looks at where and how the child looks at his future, and it is very easy for me to conclude that it is not unusual for many such families to simply go away, so they have no problem with the conclusion, about this painful catastrophic conclusion that means leaving. So leaving, but also most likely a long-term, long-term or permanent departure that is nothing more for this country than a demographic breakdown almost unspeakable here. And we're worried that we're going to raise the amount of money that is legally possible in campaigns to fix the picture in public and to get a better result and, of course, that We've achieved a greater goal. [[Intruder: Ask for a vote.]] Yeah, I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133387	Amendment of the 360th Representative Ante Pranic, it is gone. The 361st representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is gone. Amendment 362 by God Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133388	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, how many people do you think soon when he wakes up in which perhaps an hour in Croatia will penetrate their first thought through their heads, will I be able to feed my family today? How many people do you think who wake up today, and the entrepreneurs will think if I make it through my job today, whether I can pay for all the dates and how many of them will think and hope that the very politicians they voted on might be that day, tomorrow or today Friday, some good law is passed which will make it easier for them, which is why they chose us. How many people in Croatia? Or you think they've already lost faith, and you keep trying to lose every hope, that Dante's hell is a little pussy, and that's something amazing. I don't know if I've found a more picturesque example of this bill than how much worse things can be involved. From asphyxiation of referendums, infatuation, increase of money by parties, increase of money for different elections, amazing. I know the truth is hard, that propaganda is cheap, but with this law, you'll make propaganda even cheaper and more accessible to the paukin villages. Of course I'm asking for a vote, you don't even have to ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133389	Amendment of the 363rd Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133390	This law on promotion, election promotion foresees actually an increase in electoral promotion in all amounts, according to all items, at all levels, because it is important. That's important because you don't care either because you know that you have this bought-out majority tomorrow and that on one side or on that side of the assembly there will be some hands to let this law pass. But life doesn't happen here, just because you're getting more and more insecure about decisions, and you can get closer to the citizens just because you're aware that nearly 78% of the citizens think you're taking this country in the wrong direction, because young people are just leaving, you've opened the gates and you don't care. You don't care what they're looking for, your normal life somewhere else, and we're discussing or you've led this debate to the urgency of this law, 15 hours continuous, uninterrupted, and not a single young home in Croatia will be solved, no young person's employment will be resolved, in fact no way will improve the working conditions of the company's production workers. And it's all good, because tomorrow morning, as I said, you have a majority here. You have it while you have it, and this is exactly the law through which you intend to buy it in the long run. I'm worried because actually this isn't the way this country can survive, and eventually it's gonna end. Simply this way of managing the country will lead to people leaving here. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133391	Thank you. The 364th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133392	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so I don't really know what these 4 million kunas are going to spend on, so what kind of PR for the European elections are they going to try to kind of reverse the story that Mr. Miro Kovac, so it's going to be in the media that he was for Marrakech, so he was against the Marrakech Agreement because it hurts his image. So he will probably invest in a photo store of people who will be on the Europarliamentary list, in new hairstyles, but I say the citizens will recognize it, he will see after this parliamentary debate that is in the interest of the Croatian people, and who is only in the interest of this until the PR. It should also be said, since I come from this branch, that daily teachers send me questions and I ask the minister these questions as a representative, so they are practically left to waste, so school for life one PR document, political document, this is constantly forging in the media, it costs the same cost, and actually teachers who go to professional training are not paid for these trainings at all. So there's no money for that. So in Croatia, there is no money for everything except political parties. Political parties are the values of this country's power after this law will probably be further, but there will come a moment when Croatian citizens will stop, when they will see who is fighting for their interests, and whoever is fighting for narrow party interests, we are one of them and we are showing it by this act and we will persist in it and ask for a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133393	Amendment 365.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133394	So, with this 20 hour and more struggle because so long a statement of 888 amendments will take place, MOST will definitely prove that the only true opposition in the Republic, and our only obligation, is to once again show what the right intention of this law is, and that is to exhaust as many citizens of the Republic of Croatia, take their money and use it to be held in power, and therefore I have proposed an amendment that means, in Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. In such a report, therefore, that it contains only this data which is on the trail of recommendations Venice Commissions, yes, to set a limit. [[/Intruder: You've made a little bit of a mistake with your colleague's amendment.]] I will repeat this again because this is important, for the announcement of donations, we propose a report that would be in line with the Venice Commission, but look, whatever amendment we have listed, all of which is actually talking about the money that you want to take from the pockets of Croatian citizens and use in your brilliant campaigns to prove once again that you are the best, smartest and most beautiful and that you deserve the most mandate in all the choices you go out to, and you could use the money for something else, you could use for our most needed and most vulnerable groups that in these units local self-government can't have tickets for their children in high schools, so they leave high school, they don't have long stays, they don't have warm meals for children in schools, we've solved something. With, so we ask her vote [[Intruder: Ask, ask for a vote for this amendment...]] We're looking for, we've solved something, but unfortunately the biggest [[/Intruder:...for this amendment, not the one you were talking about, right?]] That's right, still necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The intrusion from the assembly room.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133395	Amendment 366 of Agent Nikola Grumoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133396	So this is, what, the 15th hour of the fight here against HDZ's intentions, the HNS, Milan Bandic, the SDSS to disable the referendum, the HDZ deepens its party's cash register with an additional 2.5 million kuna, and why is this fight specific? We'd already had an HS night out, but then we had a second Rules of Procedure, then there were breaks, there were vacations. The representatives of the Most 15th hour without any rest defending the amendment only here in HS and resisting the party soldiers who carry out their duties, the knight who received an order from the court that obeys that order, dares not look the MPs in the eyes at the execution of these court orders, as a obeyer, means, and not as a knight. There are no HDZ representatives here in the assembly, there are no SDP representatives, there are no Live Wall representatives, there are not even those who advocate a referendum like Independents for Croatia or HRAST, no one but the MOST representatives to try to make it impossible for you to deepen your own pocket, your party pocket, not looking at the interests of the people, and also to make it difficult for the citizens to make a referendum statement through this law. It is a shame here that two women from the ministry have to defend this law, reject these amendments, that Minister Lovre Kusčević is not there, that he has not been honored in these 15 hours or minutes at HS I demand a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133397	Amendment 367. The MOST Club of Independent Lists and the other 12 amendments, please welcome Ms Katica Prpić, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133398	Thank you. Dear Vice-President HS, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, on behalf of the amendment's no. They shall not be accepted on the grounds that the same provision accepts the comments of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133399	On behalf of the representative of the Most, the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133400	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And I would tell you how to deal with both you and everyone who wants to win power in local self-government by recognising the problem, come to my county, buy for a few hundred kuna shoes, go around those places, and then you'll hear what the people think about the way they manage this country, so your ruling majority as it manages, that's exactly where you'll hear it. If you want to see the results, go to Ilock, and ask the mayor, she'll be happy to show you what it looks like when HDZ runs over that city with all its officials and from this High House, also from the ministries that come there parade and when they pick up and leave, then they don't show up... Look wonders, the HDZ didn't win, they couldn't destroy the power that an independent mayor has with his list, and now it's all that hasn't happened since our promises, it's the local self-government's fault, that's how it works. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As long as you behave like this, it won't help you even 40.000,00 kn and I say put your shoes on, go around there, see how people live, and then it'll be clear to you why people move there. And when you go, then take the president of Germany and see what it's like when less than a million people leave a country like Croatia. I mean, that's the message we're carrying, representing the people who live there, we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133401	Amendment 368 of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133402	To talk about the electoral promotion of political parties at local level for mayors, mayors, talking about mayors, it is essentially pointless, if we put the same package in the same crate, mixed pears and apples and talked about the referendum. We have no right to do so as the home of elected people and representatives of the people. Dear academics, you must do this job because your leader, Andrej Plenkovic, who leads it, ordered you to the Vladimir Seks remote. You have an obligation to stand here, you have an obligation to strengthen the bag to your party or party, because you're acting as a party to this people and even more painfully, for this country, for centuries it's been dreamed of, bleeding, finally about the Homeland War we've come to a country, an independent Republic, to which the summit serves everyone but the people. They serve Tajani, serve Merkelica, serve Junker, Tusk, serve their coalition partner in the European Army party Vukic, you serve all but the people. It's time to change things, stop this session The only interest we're looking for is voting, but rather it would be... [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133403	Amendment to the 369th Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, in this amendment, we are asking for a reduction of funds for election promotion in small municipalities, which have less than 3,000 inhabitants, from 50,000 to 30,000. It's really about those smallest units of local self-government, they used to be local communities, today according to the new structure, they're municipalities, but very small units of self-government, and there's really no need to spend big political money, in small units where you have 1,000 inhabitants, 2 streets where you can personally talk to all residents and some small municipalities, which these big funds for political promotion need. You don't even have to stick to the posters, you can go from house to house and talk to people, like you used to do, in local communities. No big needs to spend, big money, these small municipalities that often have 100-1500 inhabitants, and those in Croatia are the most. We have actually turned many of the local communities into small municipalities where we now have a whole administrative apparatus, we choose councils, we choose municipal commissioners, and once you have a citizens' assembly, where citizens have decided, even on much more important issues and on self-determination, which they do not decide today. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133405	Amendment 370 representatives of Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133406	Thank you. So this increase in these funds for political promotion, it works out for you about mathematics like this, I'm going to try to explain briefly, because that should take an entire open one. Namely, fees fall, for a long time already, it's not since yesterday, digital editions, in such a small country, to this few users, it can't be compensated and that means that some editorials have been in trouble, it's been going on for a while. We already have some time, yes, so the ministries are paying for ads in the printed media, etc. in other media, to promote some actions, some successes, some ministers, ministries, etc. You understand what that is. Business advertising has moved massively to digital platforms, because digital platforms, much cheaper digital platforms, provide you, means in real time that you can track advertising performances, you can adapt them, improve them, etc. And it all costs a lot, it means fragment, what used to be advertising. Young people don't buy you newspapers at all, they don't read newspapers at all, they don't watch TV, they follow means news on YouTube on social networks, or, social media, they only subscribe to the content they're interested in, and that's the problem. And now why this increase? So because you have to keep living what you would call them, the mercenaries, in fact, who will write what You want to smoke. [[Intruder Reinier: Looking for a vote?]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133407	Amendment 371 of Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133408	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, for agreeing with my colleague Runtic, this is today a formula namely through the payment of PR services which are used by certain ministries and often use European money to promote certain policies, projects, successes, and most often by the leaders of these institutions who, of course, use this space skillfully to promote themselves. However, it is fortunate that the people are not so guided by the PR that they are able to monitor what is actually happening, value the actions of certain people, individual ministers, leaders and then show otherwise. To show a different place, of course, it shows up in the election. Of course, there are trends and there is an increasing response to the election which is bad and all together creates the impression of one danger, one lap of spiral that we will all get to one left hand that doesn't lead anywhere. So I hope that this act of ours and the 888 amendments to the law will foster the public interest in what is going on here, where the referendum is therefore put into a classic political action, making it difficult for him to do so. And of course I'll be happy to see the vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133409	Amendment 372 by Anta Pranic, not available. Amendment 373 by Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, not available. Amendment 374 by God Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133410	Dear Chairman, you've been sitting here for 16 hours, you and your colleagues struggling to deepen your party register. You'll be sitting for at least 10, 12 hours, at least. Then will you be happy? And you're going to sweat, because we're just doing this for reasons that you're not correct, you're not correct with people who, among other things, gave you a voice, but they didn't give you a voice to watch you help yourself, they didn't give you a voice, you had pre-election slogans, you had your pre-election programs, you promised 100,000 new jobs. Do you remember those headlines? I guess people didn't know by that you meant jobs in Ireland, Germany. They haven't fought to sit here for 16 hours how you're going to put a million in your own party register. They also certainly did not hope that when you came to power when they helped you with their voice to come to power, you would begin to choke their freedoms. In this case, you are trying in every way possible to hitchhike the referendum. Voices are already being heard from the major reformer of the Kushevic administration's administration that will change the referendum law that will become even more rigorous. Did they give you their voice and their trust for that? No, they're not. And that's why you're sitting here with us and that's why you're gonna be sitting here with us for another 12 hours. Of course. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133411	Amendment 375 by Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133412	They say dawn dawns outside, and once dawns, I guess in Croatia all citizens will too. I haven't been in this assembly in a long time, and I've attended some good laws that have been passed here, and I can also say that whoever created this law, and I'm sorry that there's not a person here who is the chief creator of it, the great reformer of the public administration, who actually has nothing to be proud of. Because it's just about raising promotional election costs, actually. So there's nothing better for citizens' lives here, because let's just tell me which one of you PRs, which media, which you need if you bring every Fridays good laws for the citizens of Croatia. Do you need bigger or smaller? What is more to advertise that you do something or really do it every week, to open up those 180,000 jobs you promised in the 2016 elections, to use the EU funds to rebuild the energy reconstruction of the houses of EUR 30 million is available to you every week, but I have received a reply from the Minister of Construction, he wrote to me, we are waiting for everything, literally his answer is, we are waiting because we want citizens to have enough building materials that can be bought on the market. Well, I didn't know that there was no way to buy construction material for the energy reconstruction of houses in Croatia, literally this was answered by Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Stromar. So, this law isn't worth what you're doing, and I'm sure tomorrow morning a bunch of young people and all their other main parents will. That's what to say. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Of course I'm looking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133413	Amendment 376 of Representative Mark Sladoliev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so this amendment concerns the financing of promotion in units of local self-government less than 3,000 inhabitants, it should also be said that in those units the only ones who are actually employed are politicians and now you have the fact that these politicians have to be promoted in order to be re-elected and re-elected from taxpayers' money. It is a closed circle of political elites ruling this Croatia. It is interesting that this law is passed so quickly, and that the reform of local self-government stands, therefore, that MOST has put an action plan on the reform of local self-government worth more than 800 million kuna. You're not that fast. But here you are aware that this reform would in some way reduce your electoral body, but we know that, but the facts are that we live in a country that we can freely call a state of politics. Well, I don't know if we've been in these last, I don't know, 5.6 years of evicting the biggest video of a local official moving out of Croatia. So it's obvious they're doing well. So I'm really just waiting for us, that only politicians and local officials will live in this Croatia, and then someone will turn off the light and it'll be the end. So, there is no emigration of politicians, and after this law there will be even less, but we are here to show that it is bad, that it is not good, that Croatia is not going in the right direction, here and we will ask to vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133415	The 377th amendment is the representative of Ines Strenje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133416	Thank you. So, and this is one of those 888 amendments that we wanted to send a message that someone still in this country is struggling to take away even more money from citizens than those who have singled out their income taxes and to change it and try to change it in this law. It's an amendment where we say that in art. 38th century 1, but not 8ths of 50 thousand are changed to 30 grand. Of course, the promoter believes that the estimated excessive amount of election promotion costs in the mayoral elections and mayors in units of local self-government with less than 3,000 inhabitants and we propose a limit to 30 thousand kuna. Most of us here who are living in places far above those 3,000 inhabitants. We live in cities where that 30,000 is enough if there will be a promotion for the mayor in cities, let alone for places of 3,000 inhabitants, where, as my colleague said, only the chief, deputy and secretary is employed. Probably also a communal director, but there's not too much work to do because he probably doesn't have a car to go to all the places he needs to go. And that's the problem of this country. So so many politicians who live, means 13 500 paid politicians living on the back of citizens who separate from their taxes, and that money could really be directed at those who need it most. At least to promote the importance of food donations and the importance of greater involvement of trade chain donors and manufacturers. At least let's say that and try Thank you. We're looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133417	378th Amendment of Agent Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133418	Your Honor, Vice President. You're still in position, defending party interests, not the interests of the people. You are trying to secure under the orders of Andrej Plenkovic to your party means, additional money for party promotion, and also, as you have spat on 400 thousand people who have signed a referendum to amend the Election System, so you now want to further disable this law's referendum on citizens. I don't know how long you'll be here with us, dear academic Rainer, look at me when I speak to you, don't look down. I don't know how long you've been with us, but we're here all the way. I'd like you to share with us how much longer we're gonna hang out here with us. By the time you've been assigned to be here with us, we know who's coming. Let's get ready. Because you obviously don't have the courage to face the arguments, avoid even looking at parliamentary MPs, so we'd like to know if Vice President Radin will come to us or maybe we'll hang out with Vice President Brkic again. Or will President Jandrokovic return to us, perhaps? But here, there's also Vice President Petrov, so I don't know why, why such fear, why don't you let him, maybe he's running this session of the Parliament a little bit, or there's so much panic, so maybe Vice President Petrov wouldn't take some kind of break, that our employees get some rest and now there's so much panic, this law should be passed so quickly that you don't let at all, here, Vice President Petrov take the lead of this session. I'd like you to share with us until you're here with us.../ Intruder: Are you asking for a vote on the amendment?... Yeah, I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133419	Or about me being here? Oh, yeah. Amendment 379. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, another 12 of the same amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133420	Thank you very much. Dearly beloved, on behalf of the Proposer, amend under the order of the amendment. No. In 379-390, they are not accepted for reasons of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133421	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the esteemed representative Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133422	Thank you very much. The very word transparency is something we wanted to see in this law and this number of amendments shows that we are not visible, we do not see it seems transparent, it is so transparent to see only HDZ and their proposals, and we do not see the laws. And perhaps between the ranks there is something to read that there is some detail good, but definitely most of it and the number of amendments that we submit are not for the benefit of neither Croatian citizens nor democracy that is neither seeking nor rationality of the political system, especially that part of the pre-election campaign, but you are not the secretary of state, you are only here to do the job, the task you have received. I am looking forward to the coming of a minister who will certainly enlighten us here and explain all of this to us by reading this law with understanding whether it is unknown or not useful. So if he could explain it to us and the Croatian people that it's good for our democracy we'd probably talk to him a lot easier and we'd say we're withdrawing 888 amendments and we're going to get everybody to rest together, but this is how it feels for us to wake up here one day, to welcome looks and evening, and here we are hoping that our families will have an understanding of what you're doing, not just Croatian citizens, what you're doing to this country, but also by asking us to just keep asking us here to repeat that the law you're proposing is not bad but it's so transparent that simply here we all of us sitting here have seen that this effort that's been put into a certain time and we're trying to explain to you that you're not doing it. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133423	380th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulj. He's gone. And I'm sorry. I'm sorry, no, not at all, so where would I be without you? [[You'd want me gone, I'm here, I'm here.]] You're so kind to me, I'm so happy you're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133424	Absolutely kind, I respect your title as knight of Jerusalem's grave, I'll repeat it, today is a prayer breakfast, but don't kneel again, it would be good if you called the minister here and the minister could explain which one of the bridges collapsed from II. svt. War, it's such a hero and a hero that there's no courage to come here in front of the MPs, in front of the only opposition, you didn't hope, you should even have a toothpick for your eyes not to fall, but we will endure, and the harder times, have lasted, people have endured and winter on Dinara and Velebit for democracy, for the referendum, for the fair elections, for democracy in the full sense of the word rather than the partocracy of SDP and HDZ, the silent SDP on this matter, as well as the Rules of Procedure who brought together with you, who appointed the Constitutional Court along with you, of course through best-ranking links Arlović, Shex, Sheparović, completely justice, of course you are witnesses, you know that at this moment, Vladimir Sheks, appointed Croatian politics, a man who remembers the Croatian people, to be arrested by "the most of the process". So it's always sort of a courtship from that man's sources, advocacy when they arrested Croatian defenders and now abolished the referendum of those who were imprisoned, those who were incarcerated on foreign shows, which we had to prove innocence while robbing the Republic of Croatia along with various consultants Joza Petrovic, Todorovic, everything, Tedeschije Mandatory vote because of what you thought, God forbid. [[Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote on this amendment?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133425	No, which has nothing to do with what you said but okay, of course we'll vote. 381st Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133426	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not sure if they've told you, but you could also ask for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club, I don't think you've yet used your right to take a break today and here, such a small interim advice perhaps 10 minutes off, only so much if you haven't thought about it because when we're on these amendments, let me introduce the Croatian public to the fact that we've had the elections for the European Parliament twice in 2013, for the first time and then in 2014 and now for the third time. And if we've implemented twice the rules that are under the existing law and there's enough money for everyone, that million and a half to conduct the election, what's the need to raise that money for these third elections? For what? And even in this bill, on these provisions on the financing of electoral promotion, you have not raised the amount for other types of elections, MPs, for the Croatian Parliament, for the mayors and for the President of the Republic, but for these elections that are now ahead of us, and that is precisely why we expect you to give up at some point today and actually spare us this whole day and evening debate, but here, I am asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133427	Amendment 382. of MP Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133428	Thank you. I immediately announce that I ask for a vote since we can ask for a vote, can we ask, say, for the minister to come or interrupt the session, can we ask for that? Well, here I am asking the minister to come and interrupt the session, but first the minister to come. [[You can look for anything you want.]] And you can call the minister or he hasn't gotten up yet? [[Intruder Reiner: Sit down I will not be interrupted by the Minister depending on when he will arrive]] Okay, I'll be in half an hour. In Article 39, I now try what it looks like to be a representative of that robot and stick to this precise sterile Rules of Procedure, in Article 39 after paragraph 1, the following paragraph 2 is added: The report on the received donations for the financing of the electoral promotion shall contain data only for donations of more than 3.000,00 kn. The provisions of paragraphs 2 to 6 shall become paragraphs 3 to 7. An explanation, the proposer suggests that the donation report contains only donation data of more than €3.000,00, which is on the trail of the Venice Commission's recommendation to set a limit for the publication of donations. For example, in Slovenia the report contains only donations in excess of the average gross salary of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133429	Amendment 383 of MP Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133430	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, yes, it has been a long time, we defend our amendments with which we think, quite certainly, I am convinced that we are defending what is necessary to defend today and in some way stand up against the law which double-degrades this troubled country in terms of democratic development, so the stronger power of political caste through various measures, see, mainly here as regards the increase in the quota of money, the introduction of obligations of political work in units of local self-government, and the worst of all is the attitude towards a referendum, a referendum that would certainly be treated in a normal country as the most desirable form of democratic decision-making or direct democracy in which people express their will on certain problems. Otherwise, it should be a problem for people to want to engage in an act of will, and in any case the decisions made on the basis of the referendum are most valuable and no one can question them, and here we have a situation to suppress such a will In all kinds of ways [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Amendment No. 384...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133431	...Advocacy of Ante Pranic, he's gone. The 385th representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is gone. Amendment 386 by God Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133432	Dear Vice-President HS, this law is incorrect to citizens, this law chokes the referendum, this law allows, which your ruling party proposes, to allow political parties to be even more corrupt, also allows more money for political marketing and to throw sand into the eyes of citizens about what is really happening in the Republic of Croatia. This law also allows there to be more arrests, not enough of them in the public administration, this law is deeply unfair because of the way you bring it because I'd like to see it, I'll repeat it a million times, no matter how many times I have a chance today, I'd like to see you stand up for everything you promised in the election campaign. How many people would give you a vote if, by any chance, in the election campaign, you said you'd be standing in HS for 17 hours until your party has increased the party's account by 3-4 million kuna? How many people do you think would give you a vote? But you didn't say that, you were talking about an increase in pensions, you said that traitors are the ones who shut down the refinery in Sisak, you were talking about getting INA back into Croatian hands, you were saying that you were going to single billions out for education, that you were going to improve the health system, and no wonder, 16 hours in a row, we're constantly struggling to You're not looking at yourself. You're looking at people. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]] I want a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133433	Amendment 387 by Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133434	Your Honor, I have submitted an amendment to the subject of actual reports on the received donations for the financing of the electoral promotion that we believe should only contain data for those amounts greater than 3.000,00 kn. I would like to say again, in fact, this law, part of the law, was actually inserted into this Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, an entire part of the law that should be an integral part of the referendum law was inserted. So, an integral part of the referendum law, all of these normative things that apply to the referendum, because the referendum law also provides for a pro-tourendum initiative and then for all of those people's initiatives to have everything in one place, so that they don't have to look for and be lost because the aim is to make it easier for them, not to make it difficult for them. What I'd like to warn you is that I come from Slavonia, and that's according to the HGK report, demographic data from the counties that it's in the last 10 years. 30% of fewer children in primary schools were enrolled in Osijek-Baranja County, that 25% of children were enrolled in Požega-Slavon County than before 10.g. What the Republic of Croatia faces is that in the continental part, 154,000 people have been lost, of which 90,000 are related to 5 Slavonian counties. We now have statistical regions, you sent new statistical divisions. What will happen at the moment when GDP per capita actually is, because one of the indicators on which the success of the statistical region is calculated and how much support the entrepreneurs will receive is the share of the BPD head of the population. Which means that in Slavonic counties like those in Lika-Senjska will be Yes, to ask for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133435	388th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133436	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, so in Article 39 after paragraph 1, paragraph 2 is added, which reads: "The report on the contributions received for the financing of the electoral promotion contains only data for a donation of more than 3,000 kuna. The provisions of paragraphs 2 to 6 shall become paragraphs 3 to 7.’. So, the reason for this amendment is that we suggest that the donation report only contains donation data of more than 3,000 kuna, which is on the trail of the Venice Commission's recommendation to set a limit for the publication of the donation, for example in Slovenia the report contains only donations in excess of the average gross salary of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. So, we will repeat as much as we need, we think that repeating the mother of wisdom, so we will repeat as long as we have the strength, and we will have the strength to believe to me until the end, that this law is bad, that this law increases the ruling caste election promotion, that this law has no logic since GDP is stagnating, since in Croatia wages do not grow, why would they then increase this election promotion to political parties and we think it is a bad message. Here soon these people are waking up, more and more people are coming to me and I can't believe we've lasted all night, but it's not too hard for us, so we're too well paid for this job to be here, so it's not too hard for us, we're too well paid for this job and we consider it our duty and here I promise you this President, Vice President, that we're going to be paid for this job. to request a vote for this amendment as well. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133437	Amendment 389 to Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133438	Here, again, one of the amendments that we wanted to save Croatian citizens money is the amendment that the report on the received donations for the financing of the electoral promotion contains only data for donations of more than 3,000 kuna and we suggest that the report be followed by recommendations from the Venice Commission and that a limit be set for the publication of donations. For example, in Slovenia the report contains only donations in excess of the average gross salary of employees in the Republic of Croatia. And where exactly are we supposed to point the money? We should focus on what is a burning problem in Croatia, and that is Croatian healthcare, where we also have huge losses as you know every month, every month we could save 50 million kunas as much as they generate every month, and that is around 2,800 medical salaries. When you think that there are about 3,000 doctors and 12,000 nurses missing in Croatia, where the departments operate on pensioners and doctors who come from other institutions, where they are separated with 20 difficult patients with 1 sister, where they cannot go to sick leave, where they are not paid for overtime, where their schools are not valorized anymore that we have demanded of them to get so they can be at the institution or be head of the department, all of which we could pay. But, of course, in health care, we have losses because we are unable to solve the problem we need, and that is to reset and change the way of funding within the system and make some savings that are needed. It can only be an educated health management that we don't have because all we do is create politically similar personnel who then create, They generate these debts. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Yes, I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133439	Amendment to the 390th legislator of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133440	Dear Vice President, you are determined here to vote this law in order to carry out the task given to you by Andrej Plenkovic and to provide HDZ with additional funds, additional millions, and here, fellow Petrov listed all HDZ affairs Please. [[You want to watch me?]] I will look at you, I will watch you because you should honor the party soldier who stands so tight in the defence of party interests, you should be watched, please all of you colleagues look at Academywoman Reiner as he performs the faithful tasks given to him by Andrej Plenkovic and Secretary General Gordan Jandroković. [[You're, you're complaining that I'm not looking at you, and now you're not looking at me, you're looking at me.]] He deserves us all to look at him and not move our eyes off him and I will, and I apologize for looking at you there, because such party fidelity should be, should be followed, eyes should be turned to her, because if we had such people fighting for Croatian interests as you are fighting for HDZ interests, this country would be successful, people wouldn't leave Croatia and the situation would be much better. Acadremic Reiner should congratulate you on fighting for the party's register, besides you have already shown by the Istanbul Convention that your party, HDZ and your President, Andrej Istanbulski, above all, above your principles, is above your knighthood, so that you really need to be looked at and surprised. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133441	The 391st Amendment is the Club of Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133442	Thank you. Dear, on behalf of the Proposer of the Amendments under the ordinary No. In 391, it is not accepted, we believe that the provision prohibiting funding is comprehensive, and the issue of transparency of public procurement is subject to a law governing public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133443	Amendment 392. The Club of Representatives of the Most and 12 identical amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133444	On behalf of the proposer, the amendment under the ordinary No. 392 to 403 are not accepted for reasons of facilitating financial operations and reducing the obligations of independent representatives and independent council members who have become members of a political party that participates in HS or in the representative body of the self-government unit and reduces the number of supervisory entities, which contributes to more effective supervision, while retaining the same standards of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133445	393rd Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133446	You skipped the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133447	And I'm sorry, I skipped the club, here, he didn't answer, but here's the esteemed representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133448	Thank you, thank you very much. It should be understood though, it's early morning, so it happens to everyone that sometimes we say something wrong. or we look at it wrong, but we should actually be careful about what we say and what we say. [[/Intruder: All right.]] Of course, here, I'm glad that you're thinking about the independents that appear in a growing number and that they need to make their lives easier, I just hope that you'll also take into account that you'll make it easier for the number of signatures that need to be collected, because if one party, doesn't have to, can have 100 members, and doesn't have to collect any more signatures to run for the list somewhere, then I think that the same rule with so many signatures should apply to all independent lists, means 100, as much as it takes for the party, it's so much more and more independent to run somewhere, but no more, you impose, so you need a few thousand to collect signatures to get someone independent somewhere, but even though it's difficult to happen again, means that more and more independent lists are showing that more and more and more of actually more foreigners are simply wanting to have a simple management of public money that is appropriate. What you have stated here is just another way for those who have stopped being independent, who have actually left their voters at bay, in a way that the legitimacy that they do not have to remember each year during their term as independent, but simply to drown in the party's report. I believe that you should have left them to remember every time until the end of the term of office what their voters will think about their work when they become part of a party and I demand that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133449	393rd Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133450	I will repeat once again what is most important to this law that you do not essentially care about independent and party candidates, but rather worry about your own bag and the simple behaviour of Minister Lovra Kuštević, who is a coward, left here one woman to defend the whole night of this law, which is also unconstitutional, and who you are knights of the Istanbul tomb here against the President of the Committee, who put it on the debate, you have called this retreat, so you would be knight of Jerusalem's grave, and this is the only way you are obedient to Andrej of Istanbul, and you are a knight, this is a message even from Kaptola that you will be renamed as a knight from the Istambul grave because you simply kneel before Andrej of Istanbul and I will repeat it to you today's breakfast, so here you pray for our people, pray for our people, that you will honor the will name you as a knight of the people, that this representative's body and that you will choose the Croatian citizens, so that you will not listen to all of Croatia, and to the people, and to the people who are the people who do the same things. grave, I demand a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Looking, asking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133451	The 394th Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak, he's gone. The 395th Amendment of MP Hrvoje Runtic, he is gone. 396th Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133452	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. So, here's the morning, we see that people come after a night of sleep, we didn't come halfway, so, in the presentation and our amendments that we wanted to bring in such a form, we pulled it out of a law that we could call anti-democratic and anti-referendum. So, do we want to create an advanced, happy, prosperous country in which young people will be able to live from their work, where they will be able to move with their business plans, businesses, without being afraid that their lack of links with policies, whether local, regional or state-level, means a major threat because this is how when the country and all its economy are controlled by a very tight and broadly established political system, which is actually constantly rising and stronger and tending to control everything, which is looking for counterservices for of course, for the creation of favourable business conditions, all together goes in a direction, unfavourable, non-refundable and practically in what demographics look like. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] I'm asking for a vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133453	The next 397th amendment is Agent Ante Pranic, gone, 398th of representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, gone, 399th of the representative God Petrova, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133454	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, don't run away, I know you've been working hard for four hours and 13 minutes with us, but don't run away, soon people will start to turn on TV, they'll start coming here, they need to know that you fought here with us, or that you fought for the party register, and that was why you were here from 3 a.m. to 6 o'clock. We could ask you, why didn't you fight for their interests? I don't know what answers you're gonna give. You'll need to be ingenious, to tell them that from 3 a.m. to 6 o'clock today maybe even to 7, I don't know when your shift was sitting there and that this law, which raises 3-4 million kunas to you, that law, which chokes the referendum initiative, that law that creates arrests, that law, which is essentially extremely incorrect, actually for their benefit. I'd like to at least be somewhere on the side, to hear you do it. Maybe you'll just shut up, keep your head down, I don't know. But, I suppose, as your club president said, you should accept, swallow certain things, because when you accept to be part of such a political party, as he said, you lose some sovereignty, he once said, when it was voted on by the Istanbul Convention, you have no right to your own opinion. Maybe that's how you'll justify it. But I still believe that everything rests on an individual, on a man. Try to explain to people why you didn't fight for them. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like to vote?]] Of course I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133455	Amendment of 400th Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133456	Thank you. I am extremely sorry that the great reformer did not come before the Croatian Parliament, before the representative body, in front of those who bear electoral legality, to say what he had to say, through this law. It is extremely unacceptable, that, in fact, through the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions, part of the referendum is also inserted. Although we know that a new referendum law is coming to us, where a new institute of protureendum initiatives will also be presented, and therefore remains unclear, why two separate laws are normically regulated. Why? Why are you doing this? I have made a concrete proposal on this amendment, which is, in fact, that this amendment should be deleted, that it should actually be amended in the section concerning the representatives of the independent representatives. This formulated amendment, in fact, should prevent the possibility of political corruption, because we have 6-7 months, a year, constantly bought parliamentary and taken away parliamentary democracy. I also feel the same as my colleague Panenic, who said earlier, should not let those who have failed their voters give him a vote let them just slowly drown in party reports. Let each year, they actually file reports and let them remember those who gave them confidence. And what we're up against is actually that we need to simplify the procedure for independent councilmen, because we can't expect them to have all the power of organization, real financial and administrative Yes, of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133457	401st Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Paragraph 52.7 shall be deleted from the words, as well as independent representatives and independent council members. Paragraph 7 of this Act, which became members of a political party that participates in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. in the representative body of the self-government unit. The explanation of this amendment, we believe, is that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should only be given to those political parties, which, according to the final results of the elections, have been given seats in the Assembly. Or the representative body of the local self-government unit. And such is a principled art. The 6th draft law, therefore, does not accept that, for regular annual financing, n sheep can be transferred from independent representatives, councilors, after the election of political parties, which did not earn that money on the basis of the election result. Once again, the referendum is the cornerstone of Croatian democracy. The referendum is the most excellent form of democracy. In addition to this paragraph, which we wanted to change, this law limits referendum initiatives and puts them in a more unfavourable position than those against the referendum. The referendum initiative, unfortunately, has been and will be how the Croatian government is now, which is scandalous, so the government must remain impartial in every referendum initiative and not even before the referendum initiative, it is placed on one side and who controls the pro-tourendum initiatives, who controls their finances and their PR, we believe it is not good and we are looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133459	The 402nd amendment is the representative of Ines Strenja. She's gone. 403th Agent Nikola Grumoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133460	Your Honor, Vice President, you are persistent in trying to push through this law and secure your party's financial resources. What's sad is that you're fighting this much for a few million kunas and we all know how full you are, what kind of party account HDZ is and what kind of black funds you have, how much money you have, we know who all your donors were and who they are now, we see from these recent cases that your ministers get special cars for services they do for certain entrepreneurs, we remember Ivica Todorovic, we remember the Media Fimi, we remember the PPD and the loans to HDZ, so you're full of money, we never get enough for you. And if at least 10% of this energy you invest to push through this law, you invest in fighting for a better life for our citizens, for amending electoral legislation, for changing and for reforming justice, this Croatia would be a much better place to live, but unfortunately, you do not, for that reason people leave Croatia and only show the fight and there you show all the energy in the fight for prey. Here's when this shootout in Lica, your inside party, you've all engaged in who's going to take up the position, who's going to win, Darko Milinović or Kustic, Andrej Plenkovic or Darko Milinović, at the end of the election for citizens like, for Licans, the situation is the same. I'm asking for a mandatory vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133461	404th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please. Next 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133462	On behalf of the promoters, the amendments under regular number 404 to 415 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law that regulates and finance other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133463	On behalf of the MOST club, the now respected representative Panenic reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133464	I'll apologize if maybe in that continuity because I missed the call, but here, I'll report regularly but if it happens, I'll pray you have an understanding. We've been hanging out here a lot. Now we've come to a referendum, this is the form as the secretary of state said, you've come back, I've forgotten, a long time ago that beginning of the law, the secretary of state said it was actually a referendum, a form of political action. It seems to me that it is practically self-proved in our country as a form of combating unfair political practices that are happening. And I think we should make a law, propose a law that would be a law to prevent unfair political practices, what we have the opportunity to look at now, which happens during the term of office of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. Why? Because everything will be done to prevent people from discussing certain topics of interest. It became more important if there were a few hundred or a thousand more and less, and the fact that 300, 350, 390, or maybe somewhere around here people want to discuss this topic through a referendum, it doesn't matter. All that matters is that someone went to count it. Now they're not just going to watch the signature, now they're going to count the kunas, every kuna that needs to come, so let's not allow the citizens to accidentally look for models to organise a referendum, spend maybe the illegal one they swear. So the most important thing is control, control and control. But I'm sorry that in this law we won't also have one title that says Agrokor, and then another sign that says "Olinik" and then we'd have the right to... I'm looking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133465	The 405th Amendment is a representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133466	Thank you very much. In the first article of the basic provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, paragraph 2 states: In the Republic of Croatia, the government comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens. In paragraph 3: The people shall make their own choice by their own representatives and by direct decision. You have humiliated the representatives of the people, it is this High House and Parliament MPs we will defend until the end that reputation of this home that you have humiliated obediently by listening to Andrej Plenkovic and the coward of Minister Lovra Kuščević who left his wife standing here all night long in a warm bed warming up and doesn't care about the referendum but only how to deepen the party's register, how to humiliate 400,000 signatures of our citizens to meet the constitutional obligation and that the people directly decide whether to amend the electoral law or any other referendum and the one that now follows from the unions on amendments to the pension system. That coward who writes on Facebook profiles and sends messages to a collapsed MOST. MOST has not collapsed, MOST is the only opposition to this House and you, the Honorable Chairman, are aware and you know it and we are your problem, regardless of how the secretary smiles to you, and he needs eyepicks because he's surprised too. We'll donate them. And even the professional services here started laughing because I can't believe what you've done with this. And it's because of you that you're required to vote on this. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote on this?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133467	The 406th Amendment is a representative of the Dolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133468	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Honored colleagues and colleagues. We are part of the law relating to organised referendum campaigns and when you look at the law as a whole, you see that this part simply comes after regulation of political activities and election campaigns of political parties and independent candidates. Simply so far, a law that even has the same name as this existing one has been added only to the part relating to the financing of a referendum campaign. It is evident that he does not actually organically belong to this law and that he does not actually correspond with the rest of the law. He's even a member of the State Election Commission to you, too, Lovrin said that which therefore comes from an independent institution, an independent body, and she herself said that this law should not cover the financing of referendum campaigns and that by nature things should be contained in the fundamental law governing referendum matter. Not even to you, and that testimony, therefore, which is Mrs. Lovrin, to remind the public, Lovrin was a member of the HDZ, she was even a representative here, and for a time the minister of justice, if I'm not mistaken. So, you later elected her to the State Election Commission. So that's her position, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133469	The 407th amendment is the representative of Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133470	Thank you. So, behind the article. 64. Delete the title, Part 7, financing of the referendum activities and art. 65. I'll explain. The proposer considers that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. However, I would return to such a great urgency and haste to pass this law and mention a few things in Croatia that might deserve the same treatment. In Croatia, more than 850,000 people live at risk of poverty. That's, like, every five people. Most of these people who live at risk of poverty are older people. The risk of poverty or social exclusion is about 28% in Croatia and what may be the biggest absurd, which is that the whole time we grew GDP, we also grew the number of citizens at risk of poverty. Now, one conclusion can be drawn from that. If GDP is growing, and there is no reduction in the number of people at risk of poverty, then the question is whether we can call ourselves society. Do we, as a society, care for those who are the weakest, who are on the edges of that society, if we have more money and parallelly more poor. So here, I appeal once again to treat these burning problems as well as these coins. And I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133471	Amendment of the 408th Representative, Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133472	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. So in this amendment, we refer to the treatment of activities related to the promotion of the referendum as other political activities. We find it totally inappropriate because it really doesn't belong to the category to treat it this way. The referendum activities, we have already repeated here many times this night, are something that should be cherished as the most qualitative direct democracy which, directly, citizens, therefore, involve in making some, where any people is heard, where opinions are heard, where decisions are made, to the basis for making some decisions and policies. And it's supposed to be nurtured in some way, and here it's being approached as something that needs to be controlled because it's become socially dangerous, it's a terrible threat to democracy, so now it's being approached in such an unusual way, which is what we're getting up against in this amendment. So, of course, here I repeat, I think it's worth repeating, the political activity of classical, individual political parties, whether it's political parties or independent individuals, is something else, and it can be discussed, even though we have brought a series of amendments to better solutions. And this amendment issue requires a completely different approach. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I'm asking for a vote of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133473	The 409th amendment is Agent Ante Pranic, he's gone. The 410th is representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, gone. The 411th Amendment is a representative of the God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133474	Dear Chairman, some think freedom of speech is an opportunity for them to say what they will, whenever they will, and when they return to them with the same measure, they define it by insult. For this reason you are trying not only through this law, you are trying through your public action and long laws to introduce censorship. The current president of the assembly made it clear a year and a half ago that the biggest problem of this government is the social network. You will go with a censorship on freedom of speech on the Internet because it does not suit you there, you want silence, you are now indirectly changing through this law certain rules about the referendum because you are trying to silence the citizens with administrative barriers, break the referendums because you want silence. I expect a more rigorous referendum law soon because you want silence, you want a new Croatian silence. And by that, the esteemed vice president of the assembly shows that the system hasn't changed in the '90s. The Croatians fought against the same silence as your predecessors, because now they can freely define you as heirs to such a system and the products of that same system, your predecessors have been robbed of their heads. There will be silence on your head. And of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133475	The 412th amendment is the representative of Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133476	Thank you, I'm going to say I'm sorry he's not a big reformer here, I guess he's busy and I guess he's working things out for the citizens through whatsapp messages he calls his Chief Marino in Puscis. I suggested that you actually delete the title of Part 7. – Funding referendum activities, because I actually believe that the legal text should leave out all the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text that actually regulates the problem of the referendum. The referendum, as counterpart Dobrovic said, is the most valuable thing we have, in fact, the expressed will of the people formed into an initiative and on the basis of the same, we actually ensure that this democratic process is and that society actually creates the kind of society that it wants to live in. What is present at EU level, as well as in Croatia, is the mistrust of citizens in institutions. In such a way, the vote of this law over the knee, such as the many laws so voted on, will not necessarily win citizens' confidence in institutions, this mistrust will only be greater. The confidence of citizens can be gained through the creation of this public quality policy that will actually contribute to the quality of life of citizens. This and actually the way this government has submitted itself to 400,000 citizens and their signatures has wiped out the floor, in which way they believe, in which way they actually believe this government that it wants their well-being and that it wants Croatia to lead in the right direction. You just don't give them a reason. I demand a vote on this amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133477	The 413th Amendment is a representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so this law regulates donations of legal and physical persons to political parties and independent lists. Interestingly, then, one article says that a person can donate more parties or independent lists, so we do not learn from mistakes. While Ivica Todorovic publicly said that he had funded both HDZ and SDP and that he didn't care who was in power then, it was only important for him to exercise his interests. And now that we're talking about donations then it's interesting that the Croatian law hasn't arranged donations to primary schools, tomorrow at its former school where I'm, we're doing a humanitarian action and I've been working for 6 years, every year for a number of humanitarian actions and they've always been kind of on the edge of the law because the law is unarranged. Therefore, political parties are governed by legislation, not for primary schools or humanitarian actions. It is also not yet in the Croatian legislation that the donations of companies to the centres of social self-services, customs and such humanitarian activities are arranged and we are again sending a message. The donations of political parties are important to us, and these donations are not. So we think it's bad and we're going to fight such laws, we're going to promote these laws on donations to humanitarians, and that's what we're asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133479	The 414th Amendment is an Ines Strenja representative, gone. In 415, he was represented by Nikola Grmoy, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133480	You are persistent in oiling your party's cash register and are resilient in disabling the citizens' referendum. Vice President Reiner, I think it's uncomfortable for you here, too, that you have to perform this party task and the warrant you've received, where the only purpose and purpose, even though these amendments could, perhaps part and pull me back, could be discussed at some normal time, but, no, you decided to bring it, before the president puts up elections, like you would spend 4 million kuna on HDZ and your coalition partners, Milan Bandic and others, in the campaign. Some are already spending and putting on jumbo posters even though it will not enter the electoral promotion, I call on the State Election Commission to react, in the case of HNS's jumbo posters, which we can see all over Croatia, and I also call on the Croatian people to look at what you do, how you behave when your money is at stake, when you want to provide yourself with as much money for election promotion, and how you behave, when the laws are in favour of citizens. Then you're very slow, then you don't want to put those laws into debate either, and a lot of the law is in the process, which could help our... I'm looking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder Renier: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133481	The 416th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133482	Thank you. Respected on behalf of the motionor, amendments under regular number 416-427 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law, which regulates the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133483	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133484	Thank you very much. If we look at recent Croatian history in the democratic system, we actually have 3 referendums all together, 3 times the Croatian people got the opportunity to talk about topics of their interest. Of course, it doesn't turn out that there were no themes and they're gone today, we have a lot more issues than we've ever had, and that just means that the people don't believe the policy that the ruling parties are running right now. What the people want, to make a statement about certain things, to bring a binding fact is, then, an opinion, which the government will implement. We don't see that at all. If the people want something, as such they decide, it is also done for the government as such, it is a matter solved, no more questioning, no more calling, no one has agreed with, what decisions have been made, is it for the benefit of a group, so the people are making, this is of our interest, whatever it is and whatever this is affecting the whole country. But then when we look at it, it starts, is it a constitutional issue, so is it possible to admit it to observe some signatures, which no one can see anymore. And there's always some valid reason. And then in the end and with this, come, let's do a little bit of funding. I don't know how much of an obstacle it takes, because this isn't a referendum anymore, this is going to be a referendum now is a race of miles, on which there's some obstacle every meter. Just put obstacles to making it harder for such an organization to reach a referendum. And then you'll face it one day, when you need a referendum for your needs, because the people will say, we don't want to participate in a game that only fits when the rulings need something. We ask for a statement under this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133485	The 417th Amendment is a representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133486	Of course, this article should be deleted because you are interested in making referendum initiatives difficult. And I repeat again, here should be Lovro Kuščević, the minister of the administration who is the graver of the referendum and this law, inserting the last nail into the coffin of the referendum. But the bridge of independent lists and these parliamentary deputies have shown that they can resist your intentions, where you want to shut down the will of citizens, who have signed 400,000 to amend the law, about the electoral law, where this should be a representative body, where it should be the High House, you have trampled it. Lovro Kuštević left a woman here to defend this law all night, and the defenses are gone. The people of Croatia must hear this, they must know, that they are being deprived of constitutional law, of direct democracy to direct decision. Because it connects the increase in money, so HDZ can spend on the campaign so that it can present itself and win European elections, in order to praise and serve Tajani, who wants Croatia's Dalmatia, Croatia's Istria with their fascist statements, in order to support the Vucic, who is with the HDZ in the European Police Party, we will resist. Because MPs, representatives of the people, must be chosen and answered exclusively to the people. And Lovro Kuščević in a warm bed, Dear Secretary, it's yours. I sent that... [[/Intruder Renier: Looking for a vote?]] We must be looking for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133487	The 418th Amendment is the representative of Robert Dolnjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133488	Dear sir, Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, we expected Minister Kuščević to be here and that he would be eligible at some point to defend this law. Namely, in the entire debate held on Wednesday, Minister Kuscevic was gone. He was gone during an entire debate that lasted for hours and came to an end when the debate ended after the last replica and the last final presentation on behalf of the club. But Minister Kuščević made the most of his statements on the issue of referendum campaigns, he himself said, and it was reported in the media that the new Law on Referendum, which soon goes to e-consultation, will specifically regulate the Institute of Proturependum Initiatives because they deserve to be defined by law. And when I asked both the Constitutional Committee and the Legislative Committee why these pro-tourendum initiatives are not in this law that we are discussing, which are covered by the initiatives that are in favour of the referendum, I am responsible that it will also be in this second law that will pass its procedure and will one day be adopted, and then we will change this funding law that is on the agenda today. But that is absolutely unacceptable reasoning, that today we will regulate the referendum initiatives, and in a year and those protureferendum ones, and that is why I am asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133489	419th Amendment is representative of Hrvojo Runtic, please welcome
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133490	Thank you. So this amendment says delete art. In 66, the argument is this, the Proposer believes that the legal text should exclude the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. So, here for who knows what time we're talking about those pears and apples we talked about about about about about about 14 hours ago, but I would have gone back a few more hours when Minister Bosnjakovic was here, so I asked him about solving the problem blocked, which would have also been, and that problem might have been solved in this way, so quickly and in 3 days, and Mr Bosnjakovic told me that the problem was solved by solving them between 50,000 and 60 000, and now I didn't quite understand that answer because if you have a problem in order of 350 000, and you solve 50 000, and you're left with 300,000 problems, it's like calling a master, I'm sorry that my colleague Misic isn't here, the washing machine master, to fix your washing machine, and then he says that he's got your washing machine, but a little bit of it still works, but it's a little bit fixed. Anyway, it's that way in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, things are solved, never completely and never until the end, and I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133491	The 420th Amendment is a representative of Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133492	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, to point out that the referendum initiative is indeed as surprising as any other political action, so it deserves its place in this law is indeed inconclusive and amazing, in fact, we cannot come to ourselves. Namely, the referendum is here, I think my colleague Bulj has given you a fine indication of constitutional provisions guaranteeing the right of the people, citizens to participate in democratic processes, and the referendum is the most direct form. Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable to hear and to see the solution of the question, so, these referendum initiatives in the way that you put it, in particular that the issues of anti-referendum initiatives have not been resolved, are we seeing that this has become very popular and something that is happening and is practically monitoring all initiatives. Therefore, solve on one side i.e. Try to solve the i.e. wrongly resolve, and not protect the referendum, on the other hand, it's totally unacceptable and I don't know how you intend to defend such a solution, how you intend to safeguard such a face in Europe, in a democratic world because this, indeed, doesn't make any sense, and so I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133493	421st Amendment of Representative Ante Pranic, gone. 422nd Amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133494	Dear Vice-President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, Amendment 34, says that an article is deleted. 66th, on the grounds that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. In addition to this, the applicant also considers that the proposed law does not address the problem of funding referendum activities as it regulates only citizens' initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign, nor regulates the rights and obligations and restrictions of government and HS state bodies in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-consultation, will also be introduced by the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives, and that is exactly what the minister himself confirmed. Thus, pro-tourendum initiatives should also be institutionalised, i.e. Register, report to your representative. According to the logic of the matter, such anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign, so it is only justified to regulate funding for referendum and pro-tourendum initiatives at the same time in one law. I demand a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133495	423rd Amendment of Representatives God Petrova.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133496	It's my turn, didn't I hear?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133497	If I called you, I guess I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133498	I didn't hear you call me, I'm sorry. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, this bill of law, I will repeat for 100 times is deeply incorrect to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia especially because of the way you try to bring it. One minute to noon, and only because of your own party interests, without a struggle for the interests of Croatian citizens who gave you confidence, and they hoped that you would justify this trust by fighting for them in this High House. Instead of discussing for days and nights the proposals of a law that will make their lives better for them, to create preconditions, to create reasons why they will not think of leaving Croatia you are fighting for yourself, sacrificially and persistently already for the 18th hour. And you'll still be standing with us because we'll torture you when you've had such a good bite as a pit bull for those 3.4 million kunas then you'll sweat for them when you want to choke the referendum, then you'll sweat for it, when you want to increase your ear, you'll sweat for it because you didn't get the votes and trust of the citizens in the last election, and that's why you cheated on people and you're currently cheating on people. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133499	The 424th Amendment is a representative of Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133500	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. I will say again, I am sorry that the great reformer is not here to look at how the debate is and in what way we actually represent the people and how we actually support all those referendum initiatives that are going to happen because 78% of the citizens think that this government is not going in the right direction. So you can have a bought parliamentary majority here, you can steal parliamentary democracy, you can wipe out the floor with 400 thousand signatures, you can do anything, you can steal, you can steal, you can lie, you can actually make us all fools, but you won't go as far as you want, because in fact the people will see. The people will see, and that is why I have just asked for this amendment to be deleted because I believe that part of the referendum is not part of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. Because you yourself have announced that you are soon going out to public consultation of the Law on Referendum, there is a place for everything. Do you want to confuse the citizens or do you want to actually have everything in one place? Through this law, you have provided minimum fees for political work to representatives in councils and congregations. You have secured them in the amount of 8 thousand kuna for the city of Zagreb, in 5 thousand kuna means for counties and large cities. I note that Croatia is ahead of a demographic breakdown, in Croatia it was never born less in 100 years of children. It also destroys our health and pension pillar, collapses because people are able to move out, will no longer pay huge, big taxes. Please vote on the above-mentioned amendment and request that the article be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133501	The 425th Amendment is a representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am also sorry that there is no minister, Mr Kuščević, he is probably waking up somewhere now, probably writing a new facebook status with a broken bridge and I am ordering him to watch a beautiful film called "My Songs, My Dreams" and I am telling him that this, therefore, his desire that he is projecting on his status will not come true. So at the beginning of the referendum initiatives and the Priors were against, so before they even showed up, so before they even started gathering, and with that they actually settled on this protureferendum initiative that has no such control or administrative or other control but they can do whatever they want. I think it's bad, I think those people who volunteered there at the stands that they didn't volunteer out of some free will, they didn't volunteer out of some hate, they volunteered because they thought this current system, the electoral system wasn't good, which shows even the economic results, something needs to be changed. In addition, the people could decide in the referendum whether he was in favour or against, but he was systematically obstructed. And I agree that we need a new referendum law, this legislative initiative certainly does not contribute, the referendum law is not good at the moment, but I do not believe that Minister Kuščević will pass some law that will encourage referendums, but, in fact, will only reduce it And I'm asking for a vote. [[Upadica Brkić: Thank you, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133503	We are moving to the 426th Amendment of the Honored Representative of Ines Strenja, not present. The 427th Honored Representative of Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133504	Dear Vice President, I asked Vice President Reiner who would replace him and when and interestingly, there is no Vice President Furi Radin here to help you. Why? Because man doesn't go, his option doesn't go to European elections, so he doesn't need to charge the party's register, and he doesn't have enough to spend, so 4 million kunas on the election, and he doesn't need, when he's running for parliamentary elections, because there's no competition, he's certainly going through the HS, so he's not as engaged as you are to do the party's task, to secure the HDZ additional, meaning, 2.5 million kuna, and that's what we've been warning about all this time, the referendum statement of citizens is compromised, so here it's even making this referendum statement even more difficult, and it's also increasing in this case, and in the case we've been saying, it wasn't you all night, so we're talking about, so how also these big parties or primarily HDZ are trying to raise these fees for council members. These are all the things we warned about here tonight through this debate we will continue to send messages that simply this is the way you try to get through this law, it is not right and it would be good for the Republic of Croatia if you showed at least 10% of that energy when it comes to laws concerning Croatian citizens. Dear Vice President, I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133505	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. We move to the 428th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, Honored State Secretary Katica Prpić, please show the amendments from 428 to 439 due to identical content.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133506	Thank you. Dear Members, on behalf of the Proposer, amend under regular No. 428 to 439 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133507	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133508	Thank you very much and welcome, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, if you only knew how much of these people's own energy, their time, the work of volunteers is being invested to initiate the activity, to collect the necessary signatures, to promote the initiative to hold a referendum, then you would actually understand how much of that financial part that you're trying to regulate is irrelevant in all of this. These are people who try to organise themselves throughout the Republic of Croatia, approach as many people as possible, to collect enough votes just to achieve for others, for one majority who will come out of the right to decide on issues that are of general interest. And then you'll end up saying no, no, no, here we found one mistake, there's a few kunas, maybe something's not exactly right and like this, so you'll say all your hard work because of what you've done, maybe one inhospitable mistake, we won't admit it, so we're looking for another reason. These own funds that they will pay, believe me, that it's not even a cover-up they spend anyway, spend through fuel, through the phone, through everything they owe, maybe their family, their friends, their relatives, who, instead, will do a lot of their own tasks so that they can commit themselves to such an initiative. Therefore, not only do we make it difficult for us to consider this proposal at all, but the same purpose that you state is not at all an approximate purpose, for example. when a party such as HDZ acts politically. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133509	We're moving on to the 429th Amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133510	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, here you are, a little bit of sleep, you have come here, you see that MOST protects the constitution that you were in the Homeland War, that the people realize their power by elections and that they choose their representatives, and also that the people have the right to make direct decisions, that's the basic provisions in the first article of the Constitution of the Republic, and therefore, we have had the Homeland War, we have been waiting for a free Republic, and now we are introducing dictatorship under the bat of Andrej Plenkovic. And Lovro Kuščević, graver of the referendum, instead of being a minister here, he left the entire evening here to Mrs. The secretary that the woman stands there and defends the indefensible, but I am proud to be here with the MPs of the Most, the only one who stayed here in HS to defend the referendum, to defend the right of the people to a referendum, the right to freedom of speech that you have reduced here along with the SDP, the Honorable Vice President, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. And we're only in half, and we're already here for 14, 15-16 hours, we don't know how many hours anymore, we'll fight, we invite the people to resist and to protect the right to decide, it's sacred, and Lovro Kuščević, the sea is a coward, it can be a shame and shame that it works against the interest and against the Constitution. I ask for a vote only because MOST will defend the right to referenda by the last minute and of course you do not achieve your goal, which is to deepen the bag in your party because it is your only interest. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133511	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We're moving on to the 430th Amendment of Honored colleague Robert Dolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133512	Good morning, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Honored colleagues and colleagues, you have been trying to convince us for 2 days that the regulation of the referendum belongs to this law that is under discussion. But look, the law regulates political parties, independent MPs, independent councilors who receive money from the state or local budgets based on the provisions of this law for regular annual financing. There is no such thing as civil initiatives that have no funding. Political parties, independent candidates or MPs compete in the election campaign, spend money, but also after the results are achieved they can receive compensation based on the results obtained from the state or local budget, but citizens' initiatives they only regulate their spending of money, but they cannot receive any money. You have, for example, in the German provinces legally regulated that civil initiatives that succeed and collect enough signatures and succeed in the referendum have the right to receive financial compensation from the rural budget. You didn't see it coming either, so at least the citizens who have succeeded with the age initiative have a certain financial compensation for that hard work. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133513	I thank you, 431st Amendment of Honored Fellow Hrvoje Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133514	Thank you Mr. Brkic, good morning here I must confess we are still in different socks even though that day was yesterday. Therefore, this amendment is deleted in Article 67 and the argument is that the legal text should exclude the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. I would like to say that we are chosen here to fight for the first and foremost better lives of citizens, and not for the party registers, the citizens have chosen us because they expect us to improve the life framework, to improve the business framework, that more people can be employed, that wages can be better, that they can live one life of a decent man, that they can educate their children, that they can go on vacation, that they can afford something above mere survival, is that it's some upgrade, let's say they can go to the theater if they like a theater or a concert if they like concerts etc. Unfortunately, our citizens often live in such a way that their income is heavy from first to first and there is always something missing. Now, we have this Ministry of State Assets who could indeed, with one intention and one decision, solve the issue of homelessness in Croatia because the state has a lot of property and could solve it. Yes, and I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133515	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 432nd amendment of the respected colleague Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133516	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, it is nice to see you again, so the referendum and the referendum initiatives have almost nothing in common with these political issues and the work and financing of both parties and independent lists as set out in this law. It is simply something that does not belong here, and in fact it is an indication that the referendum is experienced by the Minister, the Ministry and the Government themselves, that it is perceived as a threat to the democratic order or what, and that this should be particularly concerned that such referendum initiatives do not go beyond the scope and that this is out of control because we now see a pretty great deal of effort to undo both referendum initiatives with an indication of a large number of invalid signatures that we have not been able to properly testify about. Therefore, I would like you to accept this amendment, to understand that in this law, these issues, therefore these provisions are not the place. Besides, of course, we've shown these other amendments a lot in this law needs and can change, but really referendum issues in this way should not be treated here, but we've told you that this is a way of direct democratic participation who should be nursed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133517	I thank my colleague Dobrović and I am glad that you are in the mood for this song "It is so good to see you again" right. I also welcome all the parliamentary services or employees and employees of the Parliament services, even tonight I saw HINA's employee working with us. We continue with the 433rd amendment of the respected representative Ante Pranic who is not present. 434th Amendment of Honored Representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133518	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary. The amendment 35 states that Article 67 is deleted on the grounds that the legal text should exclude the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be composed of a thorough legal text governing the problem of the referendum. In addition to this, the proposer considers that the proposed law considers that the problem of funding referendum activities is not high-quality because it regulates only civil initiatives that initiate the referendum but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign nor regulate the rights and obligations or restrictions of state bodies, the Government and the Croatian Parliament in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-consultation, will be introduced by the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives, and that is exactly what Minister Lovro Kuščević himself confirmed. ... Yes, of course, which he doesn't have. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thus, pro-tourendum initiatives should also be registered or registered as their representative. According to this logic, such anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign, and it is only justified that at the same time in one law the regulation of funding and referendum and pro-tureendum initiatives. I demand a statement on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133519	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 435th Amendment of the Honored colleague of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Petrov, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133520	The Honorable Chairman. The referendum provides the possibility that every person in the country has the right to express their views on the crucial issues, on the crucial issues for each country. The referendum also forces the ruling to explain its views and decisions. The referendum is important because, through a referendum, citizens have the right to the last word. Of course, we had the opportunity to hear from certain parliamentary representatives in this House that even after the referendum, parliamentary representatives should again vote whether the referendum is good. But well, that speaks of their knowledge, their level of tolerance and acceptance of citizens as important, who make up the country. The referendum is a gain of democracy and also a form of respect for citizens. The referendum limits law and limits the state's power over society. At some point, he can stop a politician if he comes into danger with society. What I'm interested in when all these things are brought out, then there's no reason why someone should be against the referendum because whoever's against the referendums in all this is against the will of the people. Explain why you present in your bill changes that will choke the referendum. Why are you against the will of the people? Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133521	Thank you. The 436th Amendment of Honored Representative Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133522	Given the content of the legal text itself, we ask that the amendment deletes the same and we believe that this part of the text should actually be an integral part of the law on referendum. In fact, I'm sorry here that the minister didn't find the time yesterday or the day when the law was actually on the agenda and in fact here neither today come here and see what the representatives of the people actually have to say about this legislative proposal. What bothered me and through this law are, in fact, certain fees that this law provides for nationally and are, in fact, a matter of local and regional budgets, county budgets and local budgets, and you are getting into them with this law. You are incurring local self-government, regional self-government, and you guarantee a minimum fee for a representative in the 5,000 kuna county councils. Are you aware that you want to bring this law over your knees, you want to bring it to you because it is important to you to fill your party bags while at the same time 2400 kuna, 3000 kuna and 3600 kuna per child are the largest annual surcharges. So for 5000 kuna you have to separate for the county representative and for one child means and we have a demographic breakdown, in 2017 nearly 17,000 people we were negatively increasing, you don't actually have any measure, you have no measure for demographic restoration. You did not bring the Strategy on demographic revitalization, please vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133523	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 437th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133524	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So once again, we're going to do some things, so we just don't have anything else left. So people are texting us, you and our heroes, I don't think we're any heroes, I think heroes are our citizens who work for 3,000 kunas and who survive, we're too well paid for this job, this is our job, this is our workplace, so it's just about fighting for citizens and not for political elites. What I also want to say is that this law puts in an unfair position the political elite so far and those who have yet to come to a political stage. I don't think MOST is the only and perfect party to rule Croatia, I think there are other parties on the Croatian political scene to come to the stage, but I think this law makes them impossible because it wants to create a political caste that will rule 100 years in Croatia. We are not professional politicians, we will return to our jobs but pure cheeks, we, these MPs sitting around me, most of them were in that previous council meeting where MOST showed character because we didn't want to agree, so we risked meeting again in the Parliament, now we're fighting again for the interests of citizens, and again we're going to show that the face has no price, so the face has no price and we're going back to our families with pure cheeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133525	Thank you. We're moving on to the 439th Amendment, since there is no colleague of Strenja, respected Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133526	I am interested in what media reports on what MOST's representatives were doing tonight, civilised, reasoned, without any insults to anyone we have explained our views, the struggle to make direct decisions, means in a referendum, while ruling to prevent this referendum statement and we have also fought that state money, because the parties they have, that's state money, that's the citizens' money not being increased in order for these parties to spend more money in the elections. We've been doing it all the time, and you've said it well and people are texting me, but we're not heroes. What kind of heroes are we, so heroes are those who did night shifts at gas stations tonight, heroes are the people who did, our officers, our customs officers, all those who did their jobs last night, and we're just doing our job and we don't want to let HDZ do what it wants, so they break things over their knees, they increase their amount of party promotion, to disable the referendum, we're no heroes, but I have to admit that last night was a lot harder for us than before the changes to the Rules of Procedure when we had the opportunity to pause, it's certainly not easy all night to be awake and yet to say something all night. So we don't know how many words we said tonight, but we won't give up, we'll push this to the end, we'll send a message that there are still people in Croatia who are fighting and who won't give up on this Croatia. And I call on Croatian citizens to show resistance, resistance can be shown by protest and also by going to elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133527	We move to 440 amendments, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists. I'm asking the secretary of state to be made aware of the amendments to the rb. 440 to 451 for identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133528	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So on behalf of the proposer, the amendment under rb. From 440 to 451 they are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133529	Thank you. On behalf of the MOST Club, dear colleague Panenic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133530	Thank you very much. Here, to say in sports, we come slowly to the half-time, the half-time in which we have these topics in which the law keeps repeating, all the time it goes back to solving the same problems, a lot of things we've said. What can I do again here? First of all, the problem is if someone pays the funds in that particular account and doesn't sign the contract, then the state takes it from itself. Why is it not possible for such funds to simply be returned to the payer who took it? Because this is what I find excessive punishment, simple fill-in, then it's like the state longs for such means. If only through history how much of the funds were hidden, surely this would not be any problem, and it is always better if it was paid without a contract but that it was visible and that it was shown in all the reports rather than because of the lack of one paper so that all the expensive money that, people who believe in helping that initiative would fail. Secondly, we come at a time when information, the general information of society, digitization is one trend. You're bringing us back with this in fact at one time that we all want to get out somehow so we don't have to sign a contract for every little thing anymore. If the bill's past payment, it's all clear, so isn't it a contract? And then we go back to what it says in that contract. I'm giving you money for your initiative and asking you what? It's always a two-sided contract. In fact, this person simply helps this initiative with his act and is asking you on behalf of those persons to make a statement about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133531	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 441th Amendment of my colleague Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133532	I also ask that this article be deleted because the referendum and funding of referendums, civil initiatives that have the right, our citizens ask that the people decide on important issues in the Republic of Croatia, such as: in developed democracies, called upon by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, it is simply incompatible with the election promotion of parties because the HDZ law wants to deepen its cash register for several million kunas in pre-election time, and that is unconstitutional and it is questionable. This law has come into proceedings against procedure, so it's illegal and it's trying to push itself, but here all night long. All day long, 15, 16 hours, we've come halfway, we've been fighting together here from the MOST Club, we've been giving you resistance, Minister Kuštević, who left, I repeat, a woman to sit here, a secretary, and to defend her insecurely, while he's cowardly hiding under his own bed and hasn't come here to defend this law bravely, and he as the graver of the referendum has spit on 400 thousand signatures of our citizens who have asked only to be a fair law, a fair electoral law, who will choose in the representative body of people who have the highest number of votes, the people who from the nations, the people who will represent them here. I'm sorry that other fellow parliamentary deputies are coming to vote today, but the question, what's going to happen, they didn't come here, and they'll come when it's just a vote. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133533	We're moving on to the 442nd amendment of dear colleague Robert Dolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133534	State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. We are actually constantly trying to prove that the referendum and funding of the referendum campaigns has nothing in common with financing election promotion and political activities of the parties. In fact, not only should we talk about state referendums most often thought of. The referendum is also local and is often organised in local communities for local municipal issues, for a referendum on parking lots, on municipal compensation, or on a waste dump site or some waste burner. So, it's a purely communal topic. This law provides for a very rigorous procedure to finance the organisation of such referendum initiatives, which are created spontaneously by citizens in a municipality, in some town, for some local topics. But this law very strictly defines procedures, reports, bookkeeping and funding so that, as much as possible, this citizens' initiative that is simply being brought into an impossible situation by very rigorous sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of this law. And that is not correct, you for you political parties and other entities that have a professional apparatus, which are legal persons, who can run both bookkeeping and everything and therefore ask for a vote on an amendment to delete The article. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133535	We move on to the 443rd amendment of the respected colleague Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133536	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State. In this amendment, an article should be deleted. 68. I believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. So, we've mentioned more than one thing tonight, that it's pears and apples, that it's one law on one, another law on the other, this other law is already announced, and it's supposed to be in the making, and it should, in that sense, be separated. Even though I'm bored with these pears and apples, we could go, say, on potatoes and batatas. To make that difference, because the bats are actually called sweet potatoes, and they're not. However, I remembered a song I heard a long time ago, it's tied to Switzerland and it's called My Life Switzerland and why I thought of it, because in the people, like this, in general, when it comes to something that would be phenomenal and best, then it's said, we, if we run, all of our resources, brains, knowledge, etc., we'll be like Switzerland. Even in the '90s we talked, now that the war is over, and when we do, when we get on our feet, we're gonna be like Switzerland. And Switzerland is actually a country of referendum, right? Switzerland is, one of the things Switzerland is known for is that it has every little bit of a referendum. And we're the only similarity to what we have with Switzerland is with that Swiss cheese, but our laws because they're full of holes like Swiss cheese. Well, I'm looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133537	Dear colleague, we are moving on to the 444th Amendment of the esteemed colleague Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133538	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. So 444 or I mean the middle of the MOST amendment. This amendment is of the same nature as several previous ones, therefore, it seeks to eliminate this part of the damage proposed by law, and concerns the matter of the referendum because whether history with these two referendum initiatives has shown that this is extremely difficult, that it is a large number of signatures to be collected. Of course, thanks to the fact that we have unsettled lists in a short time and that it is actually an extraordinary venture because we have to remind ourselves that it is citizens' and associations' initiative and that they have to take care of funding and that there is actually a large part of the volunteer work involved to a large extent. And that is why it should be highly appreciated because it is therefore the will of a people who clearly came out of some great need to point out a social question and try to articulate the will of the people through a referendum. Therefore, these provisions that we have been targeting, or referred to in this amendment, are rightly here and here we ask that all this issue be reconsidered and that the situation in which Croatia is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133539	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 446th amendment, since there are no colleagues, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, a respected colleague. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133540	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary. Amendment 36 states that Article 68 is deleted. We believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. In addition to this proposal, the proposed law considers that the problem of funding referenda activities is not high-quality because it regulates only citizens' initiatives that initiate the referendum but does not regulate those entities that will run an anti-referendum campaign nor regulates the rights and obligations, i.e. restrictions on government authorities and the Croatian Parliament in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-consultation, will also be introduced by the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives. And that is exactly what Minister Lovro Kuščević himself confirmed. Thus, pro-tourendum initiatives should also be institutionalised, i.e. To register and report its representatives and according to this logic, such anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign and it is only justified to regulate the funding of referendum and pro-tureendum initiatives at the same time in one law. We're looking for a statement of course under this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133541	Thank you. We are moving on to the 447th Amendment of the esteemed colleague of Croatian Vice-President God Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133542	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I believe you may be able to take a little time back so you never pick what you started yesterday at three o'clock in the afternoon. After 17 hours, you are still discussing a law that only helps your political party and not the citizens who chose you. And now I'm just going to say this briefly, in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, for example. There is one Law on HBOR, the Law on Construction, the Law on Microsolars, the Reform of Justice, the Law on Heat, the Law on the Selection of Prostitutors, IGP etc., etc. All these laws that I, the bill proposals I've read, are the bill proposals the Most gave in the procedure. And they've been standing there for years. They obviously don't matter to you. You see it is extremely important for me whether Croatia will have tens of millions of kuna benefits and protection of the Croatian sea or not, but it is likely that Mr Tajani's political friend, Mr Plenkovic, does not allow it. Well, here you are agreeing with Tajani who said that Istria and Dalmatia are Italian, I disagree with that, but you agree with this way. You also agree that citizens are not allowed to choose representatives by name and last name, so obviously you do not want to let the law go to the vote. And you don't agree with the e-voting, so I don't keep counting. Drag a bill like this because what you've been fighting for for so many hours isn't what the citizens have given you the vote for. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133543	Thank you, colleagues. 448th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133544	Through this amendment, I suggested that this article be deleted because I believe that this part of this article should not be in this law, because I believe it should be in the referendum law. What I must conclude and what we have already concluded several times, firstly I am sorry that the great reformer is not here, quick-moving on the feather, so from the great reform of the public administration the only opportunity I have had to read is in fact how the head of Pucist Municipality Mr. Marino actually appoints Mr. Lovru Kuštević on social networks, facebook, i.e. what's up minister. He complains to him with a series of problems that cracks Pussy and tells the cleaver school the class will close. Then later on, we were not resolved on the financing of certain roads, then the finance minister did not foresee it in the financial plan and then says and states and then the next day comes the license from the Ministry of Science and Education. Then actually the minister on the plane of the economy signed the contract and the finance minister took us in at 6:00 p.m. I'd like all the chiefs of the local self-government unit because all the citizens... They live in Croatia and should not be citizens of the second order, they can adequately comply with the law to attend and class for the cleaver school and funding of certain local roads, I would love it, but you know what, he has no time, he is whatsapp minister, he thus builds his political influence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was my goal, and it was my goal through the Public Administration Development Action Plan to decentralise money, to depolitize the system, to network public registers and optimise the number of employees. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133545	Thank you. We're moving on to the 449th Amendment of the esteemed colleague of the brand of Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, so fast this law came on the agenda, totally unplanned, so they kind of locked it up and it'll probably be voted, so we'll fight that no, we'll see what it looks like, so to the last man as my fellow fans say, until the last man we'll fight for the right things. But what's a fact and what this law definitely shows is that in the same, so it simply didn't put a fair play in a political struggle between referendum initiatives and protourendum initiatives. So the government wants to abolish the referendum initiatives before they even come to the agenda. So she's afraid of the people and in psychological terminology, I think we should invent one term other than for example. xenophobia, which means fear of strangers, claustrophobia, fear of closed space, that the new term should psychologically be fear of its own people. So you fear your own people, their decisions, their signatures and everything you will do to make them fail, but in the 1990s the people decided that Croatia would become an independent country, the Croats did not dream of such a country, they did not dream of a country where the government, or political elites, would try to abolish their right to decide on important issues. Look, this isn't about questions, so we keep mentioning Switzerland, and the Swiss decide whether cows will have horns or not. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133547	I thank my esteemed colleague. We are moving on to the 451st Amendment since there is no colleague of Strenja, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133548	Thank you, Vice President. Here tonight, we have reasonedly warned about the harmfulness of this law, the fact that it puts itself in line with the difficult conditions for the collection of signatures in Croatia, because the referendum initiatives that occur ad hoc are placed in the same line with political parties that have both their accounting and their employees and clubs here in the Croatian Parliament, but we have also warned of the fact that you are breaking things over your knees and that you are pushing this law just to get more money for election promotion for European elections. I am told here by employees of the Croatian Parliament that they can no longer, that they have no substitutes, that they are tired, I feel sorry for people, but the fact is that you do not want to interrupt the vu session, continue to give at least any rest to people that may take a shower, take a little rest, so that means you will deliberately proceed with this point because you want to vote on this law as soon as possible in order for it to come into force and on the Committee of Legislatives you have made an anti-constitutional decision that he enters into force with the date of adoption, all of this is done in order for the law to enter into force before the election is called. These people here work for small wages, and they're tired and you're tired for the sake of your party interests, your party registers cram them here. We can discuss this, besides the esteemed Vice President, this wasn't even the agenda item, this is a later-indicated statement on amendments, we had other laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133549	I thank my esteemed colleague, never Grumoji. We're moving on to the 452nd amendment, I'm asking the secretary of state to manifest itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133550	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the amendment under regular number 452 is not accepted because donations from natural and legal persons against whom the payment procedure for outstanding outstanding commitments to the budget or employees is imposed are prohibited under the draft law and we consider it necessary for natural and legal persons to submit a declaration to the organisational committee that such proceedings are not being conducted against them. Also, the conclusion of a grant contract of more than 5000 kuna is considered necessary for reasons of transparency as well as sanctions for non-compliance with the stated obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133551	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. The 453rd amendment of respected counterpart Sasa Djujic, please welcome the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133552	Thank you. On behalf of the proposer, amendments under regular number 453 are not accepted for the same reason as the amendment of the same agent to Article 18, which is the delivery and statement by the natural person that they are not subject to the payment procedure for outstanding outstanding liabilities does not result in additional costs for natural persons as there is no obligation to verify that declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133553	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We are moving to the 454th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please read about amendments 454 to 465 due to the identical content of the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133554	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the amendments under regular numbers 454 to 465 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens and we therefore find it inappropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133555	I thank the secretary of state. Dear fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133556	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, to which you communicate you have practically created one party, a party of those who have signed that a referendum should be held, one referendum initiative should be held. If you all think they're political initiatives, then they've practically become an informal party. You're creating extra competition. Why in this way even approach that one, an initiative that needs to be one-time on a one-off issue that will be voted on and decided on once. Then what's transparency? When you set too many conditions, then it goes to discourage people and the message is clear, do not deal with the questions that bother you because what is bothering you we have prepared for you. That's the message you're sending because if it were different then you'd actually lose political legitimacy. Believe me, one day we'll probably have a referendum to discuss this bill whether the referendum will accept it or not. But unfortunately, here's how many obstacles there are going to take a lot, a lot of strength, and hopefully as few people as possible to move out as possible to make assumptions that we finally have a referendum on a question that's of interest. This is not a question of life, but it affects some of the life’s concerns that they are concerned about. We will also ask ourselves once whether the slowdown of GDP growth is something of interest, and we will say that, let's see if the people are satisfied with economic policy and see if the people are satisfied with social policy and eventually whether the people are satisfied with HDZ is likely to win the elections. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133557	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to 455 amendments, a respected colleague of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133558	Thank you very much. Of course this article is deleted because the referendum should be arranged specifically... Based on this law, the text governing problems, the problem of the referendum, not the Law on election promotion and political parties where HDZ wants to be able to spend as many millions as possible to possess as they have possessed in the elections, as well as in the following campaigns, while the referendum is being shut down at the same time, i.e. While the referendum in the most morbid way under some democratic procedure is essentially not allowed to state the people's questions about where 400,000 people withdrew their signatures, where Lovro Kuščević, a minister who had no courage to come here, left one woman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He was supposed to show us the invalid signatures and he didn't do it until today. Fellow parliamentary deputies who were there, who voted did not see it, who voted in favour of the proposal to reject the referendum. In Croatia not only the referendum, freedom of speech, the police, means entering the mayor's orders and legitimizing them, i.e. He's putting pressure on them. The only thing that is of interest here is to enlarge the bag of HDZ while the man who runs this ministry along with Andrej Plenkovic, who has been referring to Brussels principles in no way and who is adding to Tajani, Juncker, Tusk, and is not working in the interests of the people, and this is visible from this law that we Croats have been doing since 2021, since 2020 we will soon sell our land to foreigners and natural and legal persons, means we have not protected anything, except the economic belt, labour rights,... I demand a vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133559	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. With your statement, we have finished with the first half, and we are moving on to the second, as a colleague, the 456 amendments of the respected colleague Robert Dolnjak were painted just before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133560	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Within a few days, when elections are called for MEPs in the European Parliament, the political parties will compete with the funds they have from the budget, which have provided the basis for other political activities based on annual funding, and that is what is appropriate for the regulation of this law. But look at the civil initiatives that are created spontaneously by organising citizens who are not previously defined legal entities, who are actually organized from nothing on a topic that can be of state or local character and these subjects, ordinary citizens will have to be very well organised under this law in terms of keeping accounting, accounting, reporting, reporting, publishing, publishing, careful management of all the details prescribed by the law on referendum and especially this law. And this will make every citizen's initiative extremely difficult because let us not forget not only that this law sets out a great deal for citizens' initiatives it also foresees significant sanctions. So financial sanctions for natural persons, for representatives of the organisational committee. So the citizens who will be organized. And that's why we're against this law and I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133561	I thank my esteemed colleague. We are moving on to the 457th Amendment of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Runtic, please. He's not present. Dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, 458th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133562	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, we continue this debate until we're exhausted, but, what's here is, the session is under way. Most of the time, yes, we have already referred several times, the issue of referendums and referendum initiatives is quite different than the usual political action, as political parties have independent lists, which, for their work after their success in the elections, also receive contacts, i.e. financial resources from the state. And these, therefore, are as well explained to you by professor. The bottom floor, self-organised groups of people, citizens who share one, the only interest, is that one, for them, an important social issue appears in public and that is being discussed. And it's desirable, we repeat, a desirable act. This is something to encourage because it is clear that it is much nicer to decide important things at a political level, when there is a very defined factual opinion, therefore, by citizens. That's why we need to change this urgently, so we can't let it become a country that's opposed to the referendum. So this is something that Croatia should not allow as part of a civilised European Union. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133563	Thank you. We move to the 460th Amendment, since there are no colleagues, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, a respected colleague. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133564	The Honorable Vice-President of the HS, the Honorable State Secretary, respected fellow MPs and fellow MPs. This amendment says it does. 68 deletes because we believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. In addition to this, the proposer considers that the proposed law does not address the problem of funding referendum activities as it regulates only citizens' initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign nor regulate the rights and obligations, i.e. restrictions on state bodies, government and HS in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information from the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-Council, the institute for pro-tureendum initiatives will also be introduced, as confirmed by the minister himself. Thus, pro-referendum initiatives should also be registered and registered by their representative, and according to that logic, such anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign, so it is only justified to regulate and finance the referendum and pro-tourendum initiatives at the same time in one law. We're going to ask for a statement on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133565	I thank my esteemed colleague. You've made your point, and we'll vote. We're moving on to the 461th Amendment of the esteemed colleague, Vice President of HS, God of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133566	The Honorable Chairman. I hope you're not bored in that place and there'll be more time, we'll still hang out. We entered the 16th hour debate on the bill you're trying to enforce. I wish we had spent 16 hours this number of hours on laws that would really help the citizens. Whether you want to admit it or not, this bill only helps you and no one else, and it's amazing your will to go through this post-poo. And the law isn't just a matter of that law that you want to give yourself 3.4 million kuna. The problem is that you're trying to choke the referendum, so, indirectly, I could almost use a word of prank, because, let's send people to fill out reports. So he'll give up there and give up more rigorous conditions, so maybe he'll give up. Although the referendum is the most important thing, when it comes to people living in a country, it is their last word and they define what is best for the country the most important issues. The same in this law you suggest the possibility of ingesting more people, and all of this wants to be presented to one, once as a desire for general well-being, for well-being. Who? Whose well-being? Political parties? Please remember your pre-election promises and begin to keep them, I'll stand here with a thick eye in the evening, if that law, any one of you who promised to make them, is really going to help the citizens. I'd like to ask you to vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: I thank my esteemed colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133567	We are crossing the 462nd amendment of the esteemed colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133568	Thank you. First, I'll say again, what I always say. I'm sorry that the minister isn't here, which he hasn't found the time either yesterday all day, here all day long, actually to come and to hear what they have to say to him to those who have a new electoral legitimacy, so Parliament is an electoral legitimacy, and actually the members of the government are a derivative, a derivative of that legality. What I would like to say is that we have proposed, or I have proposed, through this amendment to delete the whole article and to actually include that part of the text in the referendum law. Why? So you can't equate referendum initiatives with political parties, people who sign referendum initiatives as professors have already said. The bottom line can be people at local level, they can be people at national level. You think someone who signed a referendum initiative knows the one in Pula or the one in Split or in Osijek or the one in Virovitica. In which way you demand a series of them, meaning 6 months before the start of that referendum initiative, they should open an account, so they must be some initiators. Who says these initiators want to play such a high-level organisational role in terms of administrative and financial and all other elements? Are you trying to create political parties out of actually spontaneously organised citizens who only decided to join in this initiative or some other initiative and when this initiative is over, when it ends, nothing else binds them afterwards. I therefore propose this amendment to delete that article and ask for a vote on the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133569	We're moving on to the 463rd Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so here we have been all night discussing amendments so 888 amendments and one sleepless night is nothing compared to people who do much harder work, and here as a classmate when I took the kids to prom because we were responsible, we kept those children and teachers paid about 150 kunas a daily, but that's a lot more since how much this government predicted for young people when Croatia presided over the EU, it predicted exactly 0 kuna for 6 months of work, but that's why it has money for political parties, especially for one party. So, 4 million kunas granted to one political party by this law are practically given that it is 3 times the previous law, and that Croatian GDP has not grown more than 3 times, that Croatian wages have not grown more than 3 times, so it is that in Croatia everything is stagnating, that everything stands, so that they do not increase wages, that they increase unknownly, that the cost of living works, that only those in Croatia are political parties, i.e. One side. I have already said, this law will make the most of HDZ, HNS and Foreigner Milan Bandic, who have the largest donors of suspected origin, and we want to order it and we will order further and I want it to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133571	Thank you. We are crossing the 464th amendment of the esteemed colleague Ines Strenja, not present. In 465, dear colleague Nikola Grumoje, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133572	Thank you, Vice President, it's clear here what your intention is even though employees are tired but everyone has to suffer just to fill a party bag. It means that this law is being broken, but it doesn't matter that the employees will last, and we, if it's due to end, won't give up, so because we want to warn, as we've been arguing all night, specifically and civilisedly, what your intention is. The intention is to increase the amount from 1.5 to 4 million kuna and your intention is also to disable the referendum of citizens. This is what you are trying to do with this bill, and the only political option here that has proved to you as a tough nut, which opposed you is MOST and we will continue to do so, as counterpart Sladolov said, we do not consider that we have done anything special, this is our job, so that we are opposed to all those legal proposals that do not go in favour of citizens, and they go in favour of party elites, which go in favour of HDZ and which from the laws that intend to disable the referendum of citizens. I repeat again, although we are tired of meaning because this has been unseen so far in the history of the assembly, the assembly has sat down one more time all night, but it's been interrupted by the breaks of the Rules of Procedure, so we've been talking here all night long, but we're not going to stop, we're going to try to stop you from passing this bill before the president calls the elections. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133573	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We are moving on to the 466th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I ask the Secretary of State to show about the amendments under regular number 466 to 477 due to the identical content of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133574	Thank you, respected on behalf of the amendment's promoter under regular number 466 to 477, are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133575	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133576	Thank you very much. Of course, we all want to have an orderly system in which every Croatian citizen is exercising his rights and also has his obligations. The right to self-determination, the right to participate in social and political life is also something that is inalienable, just as we want them to have the right and this obligation, strive to come out, vote, choose those who, by their work, will contribute to the better by political action. We must point out that there are times when a policy that is ruling cannot respond to the needs of citizens. Then these citizens want to have a quick, short, I say, short-term opportunity to make a decision and thus resolve political elites from responsibility. Unfortunately, and what's built in is actually standing in the way. It's just another obstacle. You may think it's a good intention, but looking at all this document that came before us, we definitely can't agree that it's something that's in favor of the citizens. If citizens were to go to ask if you wanted to organise and even the smallest local referendum under such conditions would say that, and surely then there must be another way because this is no longer the referendum that we should have at our disposal to resolve a number of issues. What we're going to do now, right here, here's colleague Podolnjak was saying, small local initiatives that need to resolve the responsibility of the commissioner, here's a question I don't know the signatures, contracts with new companies from the Agrokor system, will not be decided by the mayor, the mayor, not by the city or municipal council and say people decide. ... Well, but there's an account that needs to be opened. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133577	Thank you. We're moving on to the 467th Amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133578	MOST will defend the right to a referendum and indirect democracy. It is our obligation as a national representative and this representative body cannot be played with the will of the people because we have come out of the will of the people. We cannot submit to the will of Lovra Kuščević, Vladimir Seks, Andrej Plenkovic because they do not obviously work in the will of people who want to direct democracy both at local and national level to raise a number of issues such as in Western democracies, and Switzerland is the best example in all matters of environmental, secular economic, all regarding the protection of national interests, as regards life, better life, citizens have the right to decide. You are fundamentally right, Lovro Kuščević, who was supposed to be here as well-respected secretaries and not that you sat all night and he cowardly turned his tail like I said and hid in his bed under the Jorgan Mountain that in the case and the greater threat he would behave the same way because it is such a character, it is such a character. And I believe that Miljan Brkic, as a Croatian defender, knows that this freedom has been acquired and he understands what is done to the Croatian people, to humiliate the Croatian people, he is currently in the merciless structure within the HDZ, so he stands here and has to defend and from it would be able to break this session exclusively to protect the values of the Homeland War, democracy, the values of the referendum, the rights of decision and above all the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for which we fought and the elections. I therefore request a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133579	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. 468th Amendment of Honored Fellow Professor Robert the Downworlder. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133580	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State and colleagues and fellow MPs. All day long we have been fighting the battle by proving that we cannot put citizens' initiatives in the same basket that finance a referendum for some state or local referendum and political parties and independent representatives and independent council members who, by other principles, finance their political activities, receive continued annual funding from the budget, political parties can receive money from their members, as well as donations to regular political activity not only for election promotion when some elections are called. All this is lacking in civil initiatives, they have no characteristics that political parties have nor are legal persons nor have continuous behaviour, continuous existence. They do not have continuous financial resources available to organise their activities, they are emerging spontaneously because of certain issues they wish to make known to citizens. And there is simply no place to regulate these initiatives and their funding in this law. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133581	I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. We move to 470 amendments, since there are no colleagues from Runtic, a respected colleague of Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133582	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. I am sure that many citizens would agree that too much is paid for Croatia's freedom, that such a legal proposal was not worth giving this number of amendments. So this is a legislative proposal which is a few steps back as regards the democratic quality of our society and is absolutely unacceptable as the first groundbreaking treatment of civil initiatives, which you are critically treating as a particular threat to democratic freedoms, is in fact a threat to the acquired rights of political elites, which hinder the development of this country. And that is why it is worth fighting for different legal solutions, for free simple referendums, to which citizens will be able to express their will, and politicians, political parties, choose to adapt or respond to the elections. However, we can see that this can be treated differently this would be a desirable reaction, and this is an unfavourable creation of any administrative obstacles, which are of course more complicated, which of course also strengthens the cash flows of political parties and, of course, I ask the vote on this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133583	I thank you for moving on to the 472nd amendment, since there is no colleague Pranic, respected colleague Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133584	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. This amendment says that an article is deleted. In 69, we believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text which determines the problem of the referendum. In addition to this, we believe that in the proposed law, the problem of funding referendum activities is not high-quality norms, as it regulates only civil initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign, nor regulates the rights and obligations, i.e., restrictions on state bodies, the Government and the Croatian Parliament in the referendum campaign. According to recent information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in the e-consultation, will also be introduced by the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives, confirmed by the minister himself. Thus, pro-referendum initiatives should also be registered and registered by their representative, which, by that logic, will require such anti-referendum initiatives to finance their campaign, so it is only justified that, at the same time in one law, the funding of referendum and counter-reference initiatives is regulated. I demand a vote on this amendment and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133585	I thank you for moving to the 473rd Amendment, dear colleague, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. God Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133586	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I am pleased to see that the men's forces from the Ministry of Administration have also appeared, may finally land among us and the great reformer, Minister Kuščević, may not be such a coward, but, behold, since he is not there, I hope he at least hears that he hears a grudge on the bill proposed by him here in the Croatian Parliament. Reluctances related to the referendum, as they see it, on the entrenchedness of people who have made it possible to create new offices, on the possibility of donations, which are in great quantities, on 3-4 million kunas, which enable their political parties to vote, etc., etc. The donations, which you have made possible by other natural persons, according to political parties, in terms and ways, as you have done, are opening a huge manipulative, corrupt way of acting for Croatian politics. It is clear to me that this government has been put on sale, I understand what it has been doing for the last year and a half in the Croatian Parliament. Maybe it's this new scratch of liberalisation of our market, so they show it through practice as it goes, all that's possible. But by withdrawing this kind of funding, this kind of money, it actually makes it impossible for anyone who wants to choose a candidate who doesn't have access to that kind of money to be elected. Who isn't someone's player, who doesn't have access to such a corrupt act. I'd like a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133587	Thank you. We are moving to the 474th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133588	By proposing this amendment, I have proposed that the said text of the article be deleted, because this text should actually be an integral part of the referendum law. And so here it is now, and now there's the secretary of state, and the secretary of state came, and he would ask you both to call the minister, to come, and here yesterday we've been arguing without him, today we're arguing without him again. If it's so important to him the law, so important to the law, besides all other legal proposals and besides... The legislative activities, which he has brought for 2018 and which he has not achieved, actually speak enough about, that whoever deals with, does not deal with the citizens, deals with what he lives on, which is politics and this is exactly the way he wants to live on, in a way, that he actually includes through this law everything that should actually be an integral part of the Law on Elections, on a referendum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you through this law, gathered, spontaneous gatherings of citizens, which can happen around some local initiatives, around some local problems, you raise them to the level of political organisation and you do it consciously and you will do everything possible to make this bill voted because you have planned that instead of 1.5 million kuna for these European elections you have with 4 million kunas. And just the citizens could see one thing and I'm glad because I get hundreds of messages that they say they can, so I can pass the law in record time, I can hold a marathon session, I can, so it's clear to the citizens but only obviously when it's a big reformer, fast-tracking, the one holding the feather, unfortunately from his reforms we haven't seen anything yet. You only spent 17 million kunas according to Minister Pavic's information. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133589	Thank you. We're moving on to the 475th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am pleased that another secretary of state has come, so we will explain to him what our main objections are to this law and the main objections are to force the anti-referendum elite to which the Government belongs and the referendum initiatives that come from the people, so these initiatives are not the fruit of some stakeholders such as the fruit of the interest groups of laws that are passed in this House, but the fruit of concern for their people, e.g. these initiatives are somehow being certified, given some administrative tasks which they cannot fulfil because they are all volunteers. So we have one conflict now, and there should be no conflict between the political elite that is ruling and the referendum initiatives. I think that living in a normal state should be a common goal, that we should together create this Croatia. And now, we have the fact that the government is afraid of its people, that it is afraid of the referendum initiative and is then mentioned by Prime Minister Plenkovic, you see what happened to Britain, and that can happen to us, so the people are afraid of the referendum initiatives, in fact the people are underestimated because when you see the danger in every referendum, you actually underestimate your people in some way and think of them as stupid because they are unable to make decisions that you are, the great leader of Brussels, therefore, in a position to make decisions. So we consider it unfair, not fair, and we will ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133591	Thank you. We are moving on to the 477th amendment, since there is no colleague of Ines Strenja, a respected colleague of Nikola Grumoje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133592	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State and Secretary of State. I must say that I am disappointed first by your relationship with your colleagues and with my colleague, Josipa Rimac, and also with the secretary of state sitting next to you, you have left two women here all day and night to refuse amendments here. I am even more disappointed with the behaviour of Minister Kuštević who has not dared appear here in the assembly, but what else you expect from you, you intend to deepen your party bag with this bill and that is all you care about. You're very agile to get through it, and that's all you're interested in. Here, colleague Chikotic spoke about when public administration reform should be implemented, when it is necessary to reduce the number of politicians at both local and national level, when it is necessary to reduce the number of municipalities and cities, when order should be introduced and the public administration digitised, you are not there. But what to expect from a minister who says he uses a private or official mail depending on the intensity of the Internet signal. And we can expect nothing from such a man but such laws that go in favour of HDZ, your coalition partners HNS and Milan Bandic. And of course we can expect it, but you've already demonstrated the asphyxiation of every referendum, direct democracy, and it means direct citizens' decision. We're standing up to you here, so I don't know what it is, the 16th hour of this is, and I'm in the assembly, so yesterday morning at 9:30, now it's almost 24 hours, so I had other laws of exposure and a break yesterday at 1:00, but I don't intend to give up and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133593	Thank you. We move to the 478th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I ask the secretary of state to be read by the amendments of the rb. 478 to 489, since they are identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133594	Thank you. Dear, on behalf of the proposer of the amendment under rb. 478 to 489 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133595	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133596	Thank you very much. Here I am, and I'm going to get attached under the explanation of this amendment to my colleague, Nikola Grumoy, when he talked about the reformer as a person and reformer as something that has been implemented and which should also bring positive effects. Unfortunately, here, my colleague, Grumoja, we just meet with reformers, they're all reformers and PRs, so they're just promoting reform. However, when we look at the effects of this government, then we see that only there might they want to change themselves, and let alone change something that will be positive. And then back to this, this is the most important law they're interested in. It means that there are additional funds that they can spend on their PR and their promotion of the political option. And on the other hand, we are not dealing with laws that should address the actual current issues and help our citizens, our entrepreneurs. And here is where justice, justice, organised accuracy, reporting, everything we actually expect from this government, to get concrete answers, which have been made, which are real effects, and not that every day, in every debate, we must find ways, how to present to the Croatian public, what the government, which is most chosen, hides from its people. So, and this, you don't have to make people deal with some initiative and see in advance that they're thieves. Surely, thieves do not go to organise referendum activities, but it is at least 400,000 people, who are to perform together and get support, to organise a declaration of the people. And that's not where we look for a mistake in people, we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133597	Thank you. We're moving on to the 479th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133598	Thank you very much, of course, for erasing this and for the need for a special referendum law to separate the funding of political parties, because it is simply incompatible. It's the same for you to throw in a basket of foxes and chickens and in that situation, you know what's going to happen, and that's your goal, destroying, direct democracy, right to the referendum, and you showed it, Lovro Kuščević who never comes into this assembly because he's a coward. If he were human, then he wouldn't leave two women here to defend the whole evening, all day long, to defend unguarded, and this boast, I won't say the hard words, but he's so proud when he spits on his people, trampling out a referendum and signatures, 1,000 volunteers, thousands of people who wanted to change what was going on in Croatia, who wanted to send a message to young people, there is hope and that referendum initiatives can change things that the policies of 25 years didn't bring. They didn't pass laws in the interest of peasants, farmers in the protection of our exclusive economic belt, agricultural land, farmers. They were all working against the interests of the people. Here, we see there's the secretary of state, good morning, did you get some sleep, secretary of state? Well, it's an honor to treat the two ladies of your ministry, who you left alone, but the important thing is that you in your Senj County of Lika, you walked the ministers, there were more ministers than residents. And that's why he needs a referendum. You have disgraced this time and the ministry, discriminating against your colleagues, and referring to the Istanbul Convention. Nor do you respect, you brought them against your principles, because you had to respect Andrej Plenkovic, under the orders of Junker, to court his friend, Fascist Tajani, for this reason I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133599	Thank you. We move on to the 481st amendment, since there are no colleagues of the Dolnjak, a respected colleague of Hrvoja Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133600	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good morning, Mr. Secretary of State. Here's what I gotta say. I gotta go to sleep for 15 minutes and who I'm new to. So, this amendment, I propose this amendment to delete the article. 70th, and now I'm going to explain it. I believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text, which regulates the problem of the referendum. Now, as I've already said, we've been elected here, fighting for a better life for citizens, not fighting for bigger party registers. You're, like, an employee at the ministry, but now it kind of looks like you're an employee of the party. You're saying that some party gets, I don't know, now in the next election 2.5 million kuna more for promotional activities. So I repeat, we are chosen to improve the living conditions of citizens, to improve business conditions, so that more people are employed, to make better wages, etc. And to ultimately ensure what's become of some kind in Croatia, well, I don't know, it's like, now that you're telling people about human dignity, dignity, it turns out to be some kind of science fiction category, but it's not a foundation. So a decent life, human dignity, is the foundation of every society, not rich parties. Say, in the Netherlands, your shift to work is on a bus, no one knows he's a diameter. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133601	Thank you. We move on to 482nd Amendment of Honored counterpart Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133602	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome Mr. Secretary of State and ask what kind of authority is this, which is afraid of expressing the will of the people? Here, that comes to mind, as one logical question, because what is a referendum? Why is it such a dangerous thing, why is expressing the will of the people dangerous? It's expensive, it's unnecessary to spend money. It is forgotten, however, that today's referendum can be organised in a cheap, simple and fast way. Because we have a digital age. And what is the problem with knowing what the public’s view is on certain important issues? Therefore, this amendment removes what we find unacceptable in the legislative proposal. Something that treats, therefore, the referendum initiatives, as a problematic political action that must be put under strict control. In fact, we believe that we should go in a different direction because we have many countries that have achieved great success, which have experienced a high degree of development, where the highest standard of life has been achieved and there, apparently, that the referendum expression of the people's will did not interfere with it. I'll be happy if we vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133603	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 484th amendment since there are no colleagues, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, a respected colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133604	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, good afternoon Secretary of State, in this 484th, as you have said, the amendment is deleted in Article 71. We believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. The Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums falls within the category of electoral laws, and according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, electoral laws should not be passed in the election year. The Constitutional Court also considers that the Croatian Parliament should respect such good parliamentary practice even though it is not normatively prescribed. Under the proposal, this law should enter into force during the European Parliament's election, which is absolutely unacceptable. As the presidential elections with a possible second round take place at the end of the year, it can be proposed in January to bring the law into force from 1 February 2020. In addition to this proposal, the proposed law considers the problem of funding referendum activities not to be high-quality norms because it regulates only citizens' initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign, nor regulates the rights and obligations or restrictions of government authorities and the Croatian Parliament in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-consultation, will also be introduced by the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives. Thus, the pro-tourendum initiatives should be registered or registered as their representative. According to this logic, the initiative will have to finance its campaign and anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign and only justified to regulate at the same time in one law Thank you. I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133605	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move to the 485th Amendment of the Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. God Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133606	Dear Vice President, I'm just going to briefly assess with a few questions this bill we've been discussing for 10 hours. My question, when you vote this bill, whether because of this law, entrepreneurs will be able to work more easily, will not. If young people might have more opportunities to get a job, they won't. If this is gonna make the family have a better life, they won't. If the workers will live better, they won't. If farmers will have more opportunities, they won't. If the pensioners will have bigger pensions, they won't. Whether they may be executed or blocked because of this law, they won't. Is it possible that any group today in Croatian society will profit from this law other than HDZ? Well, I'm glad if you can't answer, or if you can't answer, the MPs have answered that. That's the law we've been discussing for 17, 18 hours. No one in Croatia but you. Remember I'll repeat it a million times, remember your promotional, pre-election ads, remember your pre-election promises you've had a number of things you've been able to work on for the last 17 hours, which is why at least some of these groups would profit, not just you. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133607	I thank my esteemed colleague. We are moving on to 486th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133608	Thank you. I propose, by the proposed amendment, that this article be deleted in full, because I actually believe that the part relating to the referendum initiatives should be an integral part of the referendum law. You of your ministry have announced that the referendum law is coming out soon, so why are you putting something in this law that is not really an integral part of this law and should not be an integral part of this law? Because the referendum law will also propose means pro-tourendum initiatives, so that it doesn't make sense that those who are doing a referendum and those who are doing pro-tourrendum initiatives actually have one law in which they can look at legal norms, in which they can organise their actions more easily and all others. Why it's very important to you, and obviously it's very important that although the minister doesn't have it yet because he probably knows what law he's defending, as counterpart Bulj said, you defend what's indefensible, and that's why there's no major reformer here, he doesn't have it because he started it and he said what he thinks about the referendum initiatives before he shows under quotes that he doesn't have enough signatures. He said the loser has the right to be angry, which means he played the game with the citizens, you play football with your kid and you say don't be angry if you lose, which means you compete with the citizens, you know who will always win, people. People will always win, and you know why, because there are more, no matter what you have here, you've bought the parliamentary majority, no matter what you've stolen parliamentary democracy, no matter what you're lying to the people, you're stealing people, you're stealing money, you're stealing power, you're stealing influence, you're stealing signatures, and you've archived these signatures in a dark Parliament, in an archival basement, but the people don't forget. Please vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133609	Thank you. We're moving on to 487th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the Secretary of State has now responded to this amendment, that the referendum is the form of political action, and that it belongs to both administrations and funding and their so-called so-called so-called. transparency together with political parties. It's a domestic thesis at the very beginning, so the referendum initiative can't be classified in the same level as the political party that gets a huge amount of money from the state budget and the civil initiative doesn't. and even unions that have, which are financed exclusively from membership fees, cannot be in the same position as political parties that have much more money than they do, political parties have much more money than the citizens' initiative. So that thesis just doesn't stand. The second is that 4 million kunas granted to HDZ for the promotion that out of these 4 million kunas, I believe the most affected lambs in Lika, so I have already said that at the time of the pre-election HDZ campaign in Lica, two lambs are talking to each other to ask if there is life after the HDZ election campaign, so it will be like that in the film, the Lambs are silenced. So they're going to use these pre-election campaigns in some way to win votes and the Licians who went to the polls in a very small percentage, so they're going to look at it unfortunately all the kickings but that's why we're here to fight for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133611	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 489th Amendment since there is no colleague of Strenja, a respected colleague of Nikola Grumoje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133612	Thank you, Vice President. All this time, so 24 hours in the assembly, 17 hours in this agenda point, we're warning persistently what your intentions are. Your intentions are to deepen your party's register, raise the amount from 1.5 million to 4 million kuna for election promotion and you want to do everything before the president calls the election. With all our hard work you may eventually succeed, perhaps you will not, but without a view of what we want to do with this, with this struggle, send a message to people that there are still in Croatia those who are ready to give you resistance, who are not afraid of you, who have publicly foretold you, not only of you but also of your donors and sponsors who have filed criminal charges against your great donors, who are by name and last name, not today we have many anti-corruption fighters who talk about fighting corruption but are not calling anyone by name and name, MOST's are those who call them names and names. I personally have a series of lawsuits, and I'm willing to take anything to make this Croatia change, I'm ready to go in with you to the straight end, and we've shown that here today, we're no heroes like our colleague Sladolov said, but the Croatian people gave us votes to fight for them. We have an obligation, we have a responsibility to Croatian citizens, and we will continue to warn to the end what you are doing, and that is an attempt to disable the referendum statement and deepen your party register. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133613	Thank you. We're going to 490. I call on the Secretary of State, Mr. Darko Nekic, to show about the amendments from regular 490 to 501 since the amendments are identical content, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133614	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I welcome you, and I welcome all MPs and MPs present. The amendments are not accepted for the same reasons as the State Secretary explained for amendments from regular 404 to 415 because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133615	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133616	Thank you very much, Vice President. I welcome the Secretary of State. But here's because you've been calling for before, it's okay to inform a colleague of Maras a little bit about what's been going on here, because now it's actually going to be slowly coming out in the morning news, but here's how better it can be included in what we're doing. So first, it was what was crucial, a referendum, it needs to be prevented in some way and these are all mechanisms that people really want to slow down and in some way dull their desire to solve some of their existentially important problem, one that the ruling party does not want or does not know how to solve. That was one thing. The other thing is that it wants to fill the party register so it could be better and more effective in getting votes if you can't already show your work through successes then through the PR we have to invest a lot more, so we're here to be more picturesque, here's the secretary of state to know, so watch what the presidential elections are worth, as much as it means in the bid, so it means that if we look at the prices that are highlighted for Mercedes, for example, as it has been mentioned lately, so it would be by someone we can get, it's about one 20 Mercedes, but if we see how the minister, she has a much better discount, it can be achieved and a lot more Mercedes means at that price, and so we've considered that she can reduce that amount, it doesn't have to be 8 million, it can be less to get the same result. Most of it all came down to it, we've been here a long time, but here we've concluded that we've gone to Sibenik and we might be able to now here and three times already go to get a better result because there's no hearing here for all of our efforts and amendments. So here we'd all get Mercedes at a good price but for now we're going to ask to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133617	I thank my colleague Panenic. We're moving on to the 491th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133618	Of course, this article should be deleted and that this issue should be regulated by a special law where the referendum belongs and not by mixing pears and apples, where the parties are financed and where you have to get 4 million kunas in order to be able to implement means a Japanese policy, sweep up what you did not sweep,... What's left for the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we look at the referendum and what you've done to it, what you've done to the Constitution, from the basic provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the people achieve power by choosing their representatives and by direct decision. This House, the High House must be the House of Representatives of the People, not the servant of Andrej Plenkovic, who serves the least Croatian people and is at least in the interest of bringing the Croatian people here laws. If that were the case, we'd have a referendum today, who would vote against or for less, because it spit in 400,000 people in the face who picked up the signatures. How many volunteers is that? How many victims is that? I was an activist, I was the coordinator of a number of initiatives until I was an agent. I was created in the fight against Sanaderism, I am the only Sinjan who is not allowed to participate in the pole, while you from Lika-Senj were chasing buses in the blue jacket market "Let's move on, Ivo Sanader". You made Croatia what the Croatian defenders couldn't dream of. It's expensive to pay for freedom, freedom is most expensive paid and you mock the people with sacrifice and blood. The only thing you do is bring the ministers to Lika in a larger number than the residents and you obey Andrej Plenkovic. I ask for this vote by the distinguished Croatian defender, Vice-President of the Parliament, interrupt this session in the interest of those who gave their lives to the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133619	Thank you. At my place, the same place I was born from, it says quit, but they say the Croatian word is interrupted, so here I thank you. We have word from a respected colleague of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133620	Mr. President, I call you to common sense. So these aren't normal conditions, the session's been going on forever for almost 24 hours. People can't defend themselves, give them a four-hour break. [[Invader Brkić: A colleague of Maras...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133621	Comrade Maras, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133622	I want you to stop the session and give four hours of rest to get people to rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133623	Would you like to take a break on behalf of the SDP?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133624	No, I'm not asking, I'm asking you to let people rest for four hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133625	Okay. I take your word, sit in your seat, give you a reminder based on Article 239. We are moving on to the 492th Amendment, a respected colleague of Robert Dolnjak, is not present. 493th Amendment, dear colleague Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you, too, for standing up for us, but we've been here all night, and we'll last as long as it takes, because we've already melted, but we'll be done by the end. I'll repeat what I said earlier, just to sit you down because on the basis of some of these observations I've concluded that I need to repeat it multiple times to sit down, now not to be rude. So we are here in the Croatian Parliament chosen to fight for a better life of citizens. Not a party, not to make fat geese even fatter. So we're not fighting for parties here, we're fighting for citizens, you understand? A party, a woman's name, a citizen, which is the difference between those two words. So we're chosen to improve living conditions, improve business conditions in this country so people can live better. And now a little conclusion in the end. Not only is the government afraid of the referendum but it turns out that the minister is afraid of us here for a dozen MPs who sit all night and don't come here in front of us. It's a bit unusual to me, I always remember his character in front of the cameras when he makes some statements, such a very one-man thing that works, and I'd even say "hahato" and here he doesn't come almost ever. So here's how I greet him this way to come over here and talk a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133628	Thank you, dear colleague Runtic. I'm setting a break to 9.15 minutes. It's 9:00 P.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:16 AM]] We are moving to the 494th amendment of the respected colleague Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133630	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State. Yes, we are holding a price too much paid for Croatia's freedom to allow or at least not to oppose such a law that brings down democratic standards of the Republic of Croatia at least 2 steps back and forth, because hostile relations with the referendum, otherwise the most valuable means of expressing the democratic will of the people, something that should be nurtured and encouraged and others, which is, in fact, nurtured by political caste through various solutions in this legislative proposal from enhanced funding to the fact that there is a minimum funding obligation for local self-government units, etc., of course, also allows for larger, excused, long term this session, how does money, colleagues and colleagues...? ... Yes, such donations, donations from legal and natural persons, therefore, we all find it unacceptable or such a law is not something that Croatia could raise, and therefore we have proposed a large number of amendments between the ines and the one that I seek to reduce the damages that this law brings. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I would certainly like to request a statement on the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133631	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. We move on to the 496th amendment since there are no colleagues, Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, a respected colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133632	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary and the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. This amendment says Article 72 is deleted. We believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the legal text governing the problem of the referendum. In addition to this, we believe that the proposed law does not address the problem of funding referendum activities as it regulates only citizens' initiatives that initiate the referendum but does not regulate those entities that will run an anti-referendum campaign nor regulates the rights and obligations or restrictions of state bodies, government and Croatian Parliament in the referendum campaign. The Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums fall within the category of electoral laws and, according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the electoral law should not be passed in the election year. The Constitutional Court also considers that the Croatian Parliament should respect such good parliamentary practice even though it is not normatively prescribed. According to the proposal, this law should enter into force during the implementation of the European Parliament's election of MPs, which is absolutely unacceptable. As the presidential elections are held at the end of the year with a possible second round and it can be in January according to earlier practice, it is proposed that the law enter into force on 1 February 2020. Of course we are looking for a vote on this amendment and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133633	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move to the 497th Amendment of the Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. God Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133634	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I must warn you that this bill, in particular where you allow people to donate funds in these amounts and multiple times to different parties, you actually allow an extremely large manipulative, corrupt mode of action and I will again quote to you one person who told you when the prey becomes a way of life for a particular group of people in society, then they find a way to make this system legalized, and the same will create a moral code for such a system to glorify. And that's what we're witnessing today, that's exactly what you're doing. Because if you didn't pass that law, maybe one former, still part active politician, down from our neighborhoods might have been convicted because it's even known that your political partner was under investigation because the money was being distributed, so the individuals were paying tens of thousands of kuna to him on account, people who didn't have a job and you're legalizing it now. This is one of the problematic items in your bill, but I will repeat again, the most problematic of all is the way you do it, now for ten hours you have been discussing the law, and by force over your knees you are trying to pass a law that brings nothing but you as a political party to any group in Croatian society. I wish you were fighting for the citizens like you're fighting for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133635	Thank you, thank you, dear colleague. We move on to the 498th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133636	Your Honor, this amendment, which I have proposed, I have actually asked for the proposed text of the law to be deleted because in fact this text should be an integral part of the referendum law that we have information from this ministry, and the great reformer himself has announced that actually the law will soon be in public consultation. Obviously, it is extremely important and very important that this law be passed as soon as possible so that the HDZ actually has 4 million kunas and can implement the European elections. Obviously, 1.5 million kunas are not enough for you to justify all your gaffs, all your mistakes as ruling. Well, of course you do when 78% of citizens say this government is leading Croatia in the wrong direction. That is why we have proposed that this part of the law relating to the referendum initiatives should be an integral part of the referendum law in order to regulate relations or normative regulations between the legislative referendum initiative and the protourendum initiative in order for citizens to actually find all that is relevant to them in order to carry out their intentions properly. You are thus obstructing the will of the people, it was also done by a great reformer when he said, who loses has the right to be angry. You still think you can win a game with the people. Now that battle is lost, and this shows that all you care about is yourself. That's why I don't remember since I was a parliamentary representative that any legal proposal was discussed at a marathon session. I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133637	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 499th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133638	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so the law that is before us has come in a very fast way and the ruling will do anything to vote it. I've got a message coming from the citizens that we can handle, but also messages, you won't be able to change anything they're going to pass that law. We want to get them to clean up, we want to tell them these amendments that you're going to have to postpone the vote either for Friday night or Saturday morning. But now imagine this fact, that it is, that it is hours and days to pass some law in which the interest would be citizens in the first place. I don't think it would be debated at all for hours, but they would bring it in at all for a month, two days if they ever brought it in. But when it comes to 4 million kunas, 4 million kunas that they need to belong to, then it has to be Friday night, Saturday morning, then the phones are called, then the chips are collected by the assembly, and then the goal is to bring together the fast ruling majority so that these 4 million kunas for the European elections will sit on the bill, so that we can have for the promotion, so that we can have them for the jumbo posters, here we see some political parties already starting with the jumbo posters, so we can get off the posters and I'm telling you, so we're laughing, you people are suffering, so we're here to choose for you, the referendum we're not going to let you, but we're going to decide here for you. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133639	Thank you. We're moving on to the 501st Amendment since there is no colleague of Strenja, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133640	Thank you, Vice President, for showing that you care only about you and your party interests, you have shown that you are ready to sit in the Croatian Parliament for hours just to get a few million kunas more for the election promotion and only to prevent citizens from making a referendum statement. It is sad that you are not prepared to make such a sacrifice for the laws that go in favour of our citizens, and we have a series of them in the procedure of declaring only an economic belt that you do not want to put on because it is probably your great friend Tajani who participated in your campaign, who has claims against Croatian territory that you have banned it. You do not want to put in the process of reforming the judiciary that MOST has directed, you do not want to put the reform of the electoral law, you do not want to reduce the number of cities and municipalities, you do not want to pass a quality executive law. You're not ready to sit for 24 hours to do something for the citizens, but for your party pockets you've been ready here for days as party soldiers to sit down. As MOST, we are the only ones here who have given you strong resistance and we will continue to provide it, it may be and we will not succeed but the Croatian people have seen that there are people in Croatia who are willing to fight this way of your rule, against corruption, against affairs, against this compatriots capitalism that you are talking about at your assemblies, and you do not want to deal with it. Here, here you have today and this night and these 16 hours the debate sent a fierce message And I expect the people to send you the same message. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133641	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We move to the 502nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I ask the Secretary of State to be made aware of the amendments under regular headings 502 to 513, since they are amendments of identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133642	I thank the amendments are not accepted for the same reasons that amendments 404 to 415 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133643	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133644	Thank you very much. Of course, people always wonder if you want to condition us, organise our approach to funding the referendum, then we also ask those who are proposing to be the same. In this way that we're going to ask for a special account to be opened so that no one with one booth shows up in Lica, Ogulin, Davor, Ilocka and there asked for signatures, maybe the booth that was marked, something made on it that should be listed as a expense, and on the other hand, when the great officials come, all of a sudden in Lica, Ogulin, Davor and Ilock have something to do that was never urgent until then. And then we ask you, and where is this special account, is it open in the government somewhere? Let's also show these costs to see how many members of the Croatian government Andrej Plenkovic spent on their trips now for these local elections, so when it is transparent, when we can measure it, then we can take everyone else's measure. In this way what the master is allowed, it will not be allowed to the people. But here I would also take the opportunity to get to know a fellow Djujic who came with what was through this debate, we are sorry that here there was no chance during the night that this one amendment that he submitted, defended, it just shows that how much disorganization just waits after 100, 200, 300 amendments when it's your turn, I think it's the responsibility and HS Secretariat to inform you at the appropriate time that you can come and make your point, this is how I hope there will be more opportunities and here, so on that we will give all the expensive support We're looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133645	...to a respected colleague. We're moving on to the 503rd Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133646	After 25 hours we are constantly here in HS, I personally and my colleagues, and we are giving you resistance, we are giving you resistance to, in order to provide 4 million kunas and spend that lamb policy, again I am not thinking about the Ottoman Empire, but to sweep all the lambs into the Republic of Croatia and to buy the lamb with the votes as you have so far. I'll tell you again what I said during the evening and this debate, the one who feeds you, the bread feeds you, call it a chateau, it's an old saying. By the bread of the early people, gentlemen of the MPs, we come here by the will of the people, you step here a referendum, you spit in the face, you swept the floor, Lovro Kuščević, Andrej Plenković, Vladimir Seks and you respected Vice President HS would not dare allow you to be a Croatian defender to trample under the will of the people, this is a constitutional provision art. 1st, all those who were in the Homeland War would try to raise their voice to fellow Djakic, and it is not funny, to trample 400,000 signatures of our citizens for the free Republic of Croatia in which our lives are involved, and that is our obligation to sell agricultural land to foreigners and natural persons since 2020, it is according to the exclusive economic belt, according to our fishermen and our territory, it is our obligation to workers, workers, it is our obligation to protect them and to protect direct democracy, if this Parliament must be the representative body and the will of the Croatian people, not the will of Andrej Plenkovic and his employers in Brussels, Tajani, Junker, Tuska, it must safeguard the will of the people.../Thank you, Mr. President, Vice-President of HS, so ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133647	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. A esteemed colleague, Gordan Maras, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133648	Thank you very much. I request a recess on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club related to this law to warn you that even as chairman of the HS Labour Committee, at this time in HS, a larger amount of people, employees, deputies, HS officials, work for more than 24 hours, means that those responsible in HS are knowingly breaking the law, they are doing counter-requirements of the Republic of Croatia. If they are unable to ensure the conditions for the session to take place, I invite you to stop it because this doesn't make sense, so the people who work with us here are more than 24 hours in a piece, working and nobody asks them anything, or if they can rest, whether they have to eat something, etc., so people are working in impossible conditions. We can't look at it, Mr. Vice President, this isn't about MPs, about those who have submitted amendments, that's their choice, unfortunately, these people have to do it because someone's forcing them to work 24 hours in pieces and more, and there's no end to it. Do you want someone to lose consciousness here, to make someone sick, to lose their health, is that the meaning of the work HS? So, at this point, I'm filing a report to the Labour Inspectorate because there are more officers and tenants at this point in HS than 24 hours and I'm asking you to stop it and I ask you to protect human dignity. to allow people to rest and have a normal life, to work as normal people [[Intruder: Dear...]] It's our job, Mr. President, to allow people to work as normal people. [[Intruder: Dear colleague Maras...]] That they're right, for 4,000,00 kn someone sits here and sits for 30 or more hours, so how are we not ashamed? [[Intruder: Dear...]] I ask you to interrupt the session until an adequate replacement is found for these people, [[Intruder: Dear colleague Maras...]] Please, and I just can't believe there's no hearing about it. [[Intruder: Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133649	You've finished your colleague Maras. I've already given you one warning about the abuse of reporting. You know very well the Rules of Procedure of HS, you know very well that only the item of the agenda can be requested. The labour law is not a item of the agenda. As for the continued work of Parliament officials. They don't work in continuity, they work two hours and then six hours of rest, so they change. So, no, you're not going to argue with me, based on an article. colleague [[Mr. Vice President, don't tell the truth. Look at the video, people sitting next to you all night. Maybe you weren't here.]] Comrade Maras [[Intruder: But they haven't had any six hours of rest.]] Sit down. [[Intruder: So you can't delete the video.]] Based on an article. 240 I'm taking your word and I can't give you a break because there are no conditions. [[Intruder: You cannot delete the video.]] Here you go, Mr. Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133650	Your Honor, Vice President. I have to act as the president of the club who sent amendments to this law. So, it wasn't our intention to argue all night, it was subsequently put on the agenda and it's true what my colleague Maras is saying, and that's what Parliament's presidency is responsible for. These people told me in a conversation many of them have been working for over 24 hours. They didn't rest, and that's not true, Vice President of the Parliament, and you can't say that what my colleague Maras is saying isn't true. That's right. People work more than 24 hours. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133651	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. You didn't call on an article of the Rules of Procedure that was injured. You have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a reminder based on an article. 239. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133652	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've hurt an officer. In 239 and 240, on the basis of which you gave notice to your colleagues, you articles. I think it is irrelevant, and I think you need to give us a break because the break is about the agenda, so today we are discussing entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs, this is the point of this agenda and the financing of political parties and, say, people in political parties who are employees, have the right to rest and have the right to work. They also have Parliament officials, and it's all connected together, and it can't. be one criterion for one, the other for another, you must give us [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to make the break possible and it's not true that people don't work [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So they have footage of a man sleeping next to you, barely looking because he didn't rest because he wasn't allowed to rest. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Đujic.]] Okay, thank you very much. Time's up for these people, too, so people are working. [[Intruder: Comrade Djujic, you've run out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133653	As I said to Mr. Grumoya, you have abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning. Thank you very much. We're moving on with our work. Dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, Amendment No. 504. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133655	Mr. Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. This parliamentary debate on amendments to the Bill on the financing of political activities and election promotions and referendums turns into a farce, unmarked in HS history. I have to say that I'm extremely sorry that you don't interrupt this session, which all the points that are now supposed to be at the 9.30 hearing, all the draft laws, are not important and can come another day, some other week at the hearing. But this law must be passed today, on Friday, it must be concluded, the amendments must be voted on, and it must be passed. As the most important law in HS history, I suppose, because it will turn out that no other law has been discussed in this way, has been decided on amendments within such a short period of time throughout the day and all night, although it has never been decided to harm the employees of this HS, as it will be noted that this is the most important law that HS has ever passed. Are you ready to accept the qualification that the law due to several million kunas for the EU elections will have the status of the most important law in history because it has been discussed most throughout the night? Absolutely incorrect, and I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133656	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move to 506, or 507 amendments. There are no colleagues Runtic or colleagues Dobrovic, neither has a colleague, Pranic, then we move on to the 508th amendment, respected counterpart Ivana Nincevic-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133657	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In this amendment, an article shall be deleted. 73. We believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. In addition to this, I also believe that in the proposed law, the problem of funding referendum activities is not high-quality because it regulates only civil initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run an anti-referendum campaign nor regulate the rights and obligations, i.e. restrictions on state bodies, government and HS in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information from the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-Council, the institute for pro-tureendum initiatives will also be introduced, as confirmed by the minister himself. Thus, pro-referendum initiatives should also be registered and registered as their representative, and according to that logic, such anti-referendum initiatives should finance their campaign, and it is only justified to regulate and finance referendum and pro-tourendum initiatives at the same time in one law. The Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums falls within the category of electoral laws, and according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, electoral laws should not be passed in the election year. This law should enter into force during the implementation of the European Parliament's election, which is absolutely unacceptable and we propose that the law enter into force on 1 February 2020. I demand a vote on this amendment and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133658	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 509th Amendment of the Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, God Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133659	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, is an incredible ease to which you reject the amendments, which you have insisted during all these hours of debate on the law that only benefits you. To you as a political party. The citizens who gave you the vote, who gave you the trust to vote, I don't believe they thought you'd use their trust in this way. And I believe, I deeply believe that this day they will remember. You could have used these 17 hours on a series of laws, already completed bill proposals in the parliamentary procedure, you could have chosen whether to protect the fishermen and help the Croatian economy with an exclusive economic belt, but this is not the case I assume because of Mr. Tajani who is your friend. You could also choose the Microsolars Act to help families and entrepreneurs, no. You could have chosen if you were going to improve the executive law, no, not that either. You could choose whether to allow citizens to choose the name and last name of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, to allow e-vote to finally be a normal election, no. You spent 17, 18 hours, all day, all night and today all day to get three, four million kunas to choke the referendum. Well done, that's what the citizens have chosen you for, good job. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133660	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 510th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133661	Your Honor, I have suggested that this amendment be deleted since it should be an integral part of the referendum law. In fact, this law has been introduced into the law, parts of the referendum law that should never be here, because actually pro-tourendum initiatives have been announced in the referendum law, and then it is normal and should be expected that citizens have one legal regulation in which they will be able to look at all the provisions concerning the start-up and action in accordance with the referendum. What I would like to mention, apart from raising and all the amounts for election promotion, means from those European elections that are now, to those presidential etc., you are predicting this law, you are incurring local and regional self-government and you are determining how much this budget from local and regional self-government will stand out by the elected representative means in the county assembly, in the city assembly or municipal council, you are determining it. You are determining that this is minimal for the County Assembly of 5,000 kuna per individual representative, and we know today that Croatia is facing a demographic breakdown and you are predicting an extra of 200 kuna per child, which is 2,400 kuna per year. So what is the message of this government, the government's message in this country, will be developed by political parties, the referendum initiatives will be made difficult or choked, because the best referendum for us is a dead referendum, while what's most important is that for demographics, health care, social and education you don't have enough money. Well, here's what I'd like to ask you to vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133662	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 511th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so this authority will never allow a referendum on the amendment of the electoral law because this referendum would leave them in the roster of history, especially with regard to electronic voting. So the low youth turnout in Croatia is precisely because of this, the electronic vote would increase youth turnout and Minister Kuščević is clearly colleagues of Nikola Grmoji and Miri Bulju after the TV show said, the referendum will not pass at the moment when the signatures were still collected. So their intention was clear. What is surprising, some are not surprised is the fact that such a violation of national will happens at a time when Croatia is actually at a turning point. So on the turning point whether it will move forward or sink even deeper. In this Croatian Parliament, a number of important decisions were made, such as the current economic situation and the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia. And now you have the fact that Croatia is demographically and economically devastated, and that Croatia has 13,400 paid politicians, and among other things one of these referendum initiatives is to reduce the number of Parliament politicians, and our initiative,... local self-government, to reduce the number of local self-government politicians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this government isn't meant to do it, but here, we're going to fight further and sadden the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133664	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. We are moving on to the 513th Amendment since there is no colleague of Strenja, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoi, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133665	Dear Vice President, you are still persistently trying to push through this law, which brings no good to anyone but HDZ increases the money for the elections and makes it even more difficult for the referendum to declare citizens. And you are so persistent, that here, it has been warned here that you are also violating the Labour Act, just so that before the president calls the elections, we can push through this law and thus increase the amount you will be able to spend in the elections for the European Parliament. If 10% of that energy, wishes, if you could get through this law in some of the problems that affect Croatian citizens, this country would be much more orderly, citizens wouldn't leave it, there would probably be no corruption, but there's no will, no agility. No perseverance. You do not want to implement the reform of the judiciary, we have sent it all the way here to the Croatian Parliament, you do not want to implement public administration reform, you do not want to reduce the number of politicians at local, national level, you do not want to reduce the number of cities and municipalities, you do not want to, so you do not want to reduce the number of employees in public companies, we are free to say, not a single reform, seriously you do not want to implement. But when it comes to your money, you're very willing to endure it, but not just you, but you're willing to sacrifice others, to secure money in your client's register, and it's sad that with so much endurance you're fighting for money, and let's remember the great affairs, let's remember your donors, and it's never enough for you. So are you really going to choke on that big money? Is he the only one that matters to you? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133666	Thanks to my colleague, Grmo, we are moving on to the 514th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most. I would ask the Secretary of State to show about the amendments from regular number 514 to regular number 525 since they are amendments of identical content, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133667	Thank you. The amendments are not accepted for the same reasons I explained to the previous ones. Therefore, a referendum on the forms of political action of citizens, and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum through the same law, which regulates the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133668	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, dear colleague Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133669	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have actually stated in your statement that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are politicians. That's how it turns out. So the whole nation is politicians. And then basically, what's the problem? How can a politician citizen comment on politicians who abuse his trust? Should we talk about a colleague? I'm afraid there are a lot of people, and in particular here's a proponent in a law like this, who do not show collegiation to those voters and their voters and those who, through the referendums, would encourage the resolution of certain issues, which are of general interest and which are urgent to resolve, and there is not enough political power or will to discuss it here or here in the Assembly, we do not get information, nor do we need your discussion and find a compromise solution. Nor do you want to let the people know about it. And your solutions are the ones that were now questioned through these initiatives. What you want to prevent through these specific accounts and all possible obstacles is that no one dares to question you afterwards. You're practically in a situation, you're gods, so that's how it's gonna be. And the one who doesn't like it looks like there's only one way left, and that's the way across the border, towards some better life. This way, problems in Croatia will not be solved and sometimes bad decisions should be faced. Sometimes it may be and the people will confirm that this decision is good. But how do you know that, if you're going to do everything you can to get to that moment, it doesn't come at all. And then we look at other countries, where our people work to move out and they cherish such a tradition and a referendum, but we don't even have a chance here, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133670	I thank my colleague Panenic, we are moving on to the 515th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133671	Thank you very much. I'll repeat again what I repeat at 3:00, 5:00, how much we're arguing that you're breaking the Constitution here with this law. And this is not appropriate for a referendum, to mix it with the campaign, i.e. with the election promotion of your party. You can't mix in the same basket of apples, pears, foxes and chickens, you can't do that. And here it took a minimum, out of courtesy after this much debate and the deepening of your cash register in HDZ, to be Minister Lovro Kuščević, graver of the referendum, it is a minimum of decency, and I think here I call on him once more, and this should also be the chairman, that in order to protect the referendum, to protect the right to direct democracy, the chairman should withdraw this item from the agenda. Otherwise, she came on the agenda counter-worked. Now speak this way, that this is appropriate. What's appropriate? Four hundred thousand signatures from our citizens, trampled and annuled their right to enter the electoral code. Then is it a representative body? Is it natural that in the Republic of Croatia we do not have an exclusive economic belt that has caused our fishermen and the Republic of Croatia to have enormous damage? Is it normal to give so many millions of HDZ in the campaign now, that's why you push it, and Dalmatinka workers cannot exercise their right to give up their rights as the prime minister has promised? Is it normal for teleopers to have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia because you have to listen to Merkelica, Tajani, Junker who holds the Prime Minister in front of all the world's cameras and thus shows his reflection towards the Republic of Croatia, is that state-owned? Is that why Dear Vice President, I see you're busy. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] In other conversations, I ask you to withdraw [[Agreement: colleague Bulj]] this item of the agenda and vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133672	...please respect the time provided for the debate. We move on to the next amendment No. In 516, dear colleague Robert Dolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133673	Mr. Vice-President HS, state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues, I appeal to common sense to stop this debate, this whole-day and night-long debate on amendments because this is no longer the session of HS as it should be, this is work in inhumane conditions that no agent should actually be exposed to, that I'm not talking about employees who didn't deserve this. I appeal to you once again to consider all the negative consequences that will arise from this lengthy debate on amendments that are actually becoming impossible, where any rational debate on the content of this law ends. After so many hours of discussion [[Intruder: Dear, stop time...]] and therefore I ask you to consult, to set a break, to seriously consider all possible negative consequences for HS, by the image of HS in Europe as one democratic home as it should be, because this will be discussed negatively, and we do not need this as a Member State of the EU that chaired the Council of Europe, which is waiting for the Presidency of the EU Council, I ask you to stop this tragic farce that no longer makes any sense and ask that the amendment be voted on. [[Intruder: Dear colleagues and colleagues, please, colleague Bulj, colleague Beljak, colleague Maras, please do not disturb colleague of the Dolnjak while it is obvious about the amendments, please...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133674	I thank my colleague Podolnjak, at any moment you can give up the amendment and we will solve everything, and democracy has its own rules, are prescribed by the laws and Rules of Procedure of HS, so we will continue with the amendments. We are moving to the 520th amendment, as my colleague Runtic is not present, and also colleague Dobrović is not present, and colleague Pranic is not present. We move to the 520th Honored Representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133675	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, in this amendment, the Member of the Commission shall be deleted. The 74th Proposer considers that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. In addition to this, the proposer considers that the proposed law does not address the problem of funding referenda activities as it regulates only citizens' initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign, nor regulates the rights and obligations and restrictions of government and HS state bodies in the referendum campaign. The Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums falls within the category of electoral laws, and according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, electoral laws should not be passed in the election year. The Constitutional Court also considers that HS should respect such good parliamentary practice even though it is not normatively prescribed. Under the proposal, this law should enter into force during the European Parliament's election, which is absolutely unacceptable. As the presidential elections are held at the end of the year with a possible second round, and it may also be in January according to earlier practice, the entry into force of the law is proposed on 1 February 2020. We ask that this amendment be voted on and Vice President HS thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133676	Thank you, too. It's the 521st Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133677	I'm looking for a 30-minute party on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS so that all of us can come together for a little while, if this farce is being performed, I don't think it's good for the public, it's not good for, as a message sent out, it's not good for the opposition or for the ruling majority. What is trying to do, and what is the opposition trying to prevent, is simply, in our opinion, something that deserves us all to rest together a little bit, so that we can all pull out a hand and that the ruling majority in front of the entire Croatian public is not blasphemed, in order to try to push through our law at speed, and to try to finance or spend millions of kuna on something that is unnecessary? The election campaign today in 2019 is not the same as it was in 2001, as it was in 2007, or I don't know what years, times have changed, today the campaign can be run much more efficiently and much cheaper, for example on social networks or other forms, there's no need to spend so much money, even if it was a party, on pre-election promotion. Besides, to you in HDZ, you're not, but you're as if you are, and so it's more appropriate that there's no long political campaign, because your HDZ party army is going to make elections, so it's not in your best interest that there's too much to spend too much money. Now, I think we should all get together, I repeat to the ball, that we should rest, first of all, you who are there all night, I congratulate you on that, on that persistent fight by our colleagues from the MOST, my colleagues from the SDP, but I think that this, this battle where no one can win and that we should, that we should all rest together, pull together, and think about whether it is really necessary for millions of kunas to just spend, it would be better to make some, some humanitarian action, so that these millions of all parties should be separated and given for charity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133678	Thank you. Thank you. I approve of you, of course, a ten-minute break, up to ten and, by ten, let's take a ten- and twenty-minute break. Ten and twenty. Session interrupted at 10.07 hours. Thank you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] [[Good afternoon.]] We continue after a break requested by the Croatian Peasant Party or Mr. Beljak. It is now the 521st Amendment of the Representatives of Mr. God Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133680	Excuse me. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I ask you to stop this, this kind of debate of the bill that has been going on for tens of hours, in a deeply unfair, incorrect way, trying to pass this bill. A bill that absolutely no one, no group in Croatian society makes a profit, but only one political party. Croatian citizens do not believe that they have given their voice to the ruling, in order to take advantage of all institutions to raise their money and deepen their party register, I do not believe that the citizens gave them the vote because...... [[jamour.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133681	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133682	I don't believe that their citizens,...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133683	Here, you'll get more time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133684	I don't believe the citizens gave them a vote so they can choke on the referendum, I don't think they've been given a voice because of the ear, but well, I'm not sure about that. But what I'm sure to say is, did farmers benefit from this?, did not, did the entrepreneurs benefit from this?, did not, the pensioners?, did not, did the young for this get greater opportunities in Croatian society?, did not, did the families profit?, did not. No one in Croatia has been profiting from this Law that HDZ insists on since three afternoons yesterday, all night, today, all day long, from Croatian society except HDZ and because they are asking for another three, four million. Well, after billions of damaged states in the last 28 years, isn't that enough? When's it enough? I'm asking you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133685	Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133686	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Club and for some discussions on this, this topic. The first topic is this, that this is pure mining and sabotage of the referendum to discuss it, and this is a direct attack on direct democracy, and the second issue of increasing that amount for, for the European Parliament, this money which is a pure excuse that there is more money for the ruling election campaign. I'm looking for a break, please, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133687	Thank you very much. I'm obliged to give you a break for 10.34 minutes. Session interrupted at 10.24 hours. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.34 HOURS]] We move on to Amendment 522 of MP Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133689	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here and after today and yesterday, the minister has no need to come and stand behind the indefensible law, which actually turns out to be the most important law in the history of this government. And it wouldn't be weird if 10% of the citizens weren't actually in energy poverty, and it wouldn't be weird if in schools, in primary education, in district schools 24 and 25% of the district schools weren't really heating up on solid fuels, and it wouldn't be weird if anything was going on, and you didn't get scientific research projects for 16 months, and then innovation was getting old before you actually graded project proposals, and it wouldn't be weird if you got six thousand pills without cameras and then you couldn't read QR codes, and so on. All of this would not be strange if the Social Care Centres actually had adequate professional capacities, and all of this would not be strange if by this Law, you did not actually provide five thousand kunas for a minimum fee for a representative elected to the County Assembly, meaning at an annual level for the political action of the political party, that the child's allowance for a child at an annual level would not amount to 2 thousand 400 kuna. With this legislative proposal, the government has said no, something has to be done, when we have no concrete results that we have made business easier for entrepreneurs, that we have removed parafiscal burdens, that we have reduced public administration, and not only have we taken action to move from the Agency to the Ministry, because it is clear to us that in the 2017 budget for the salaries of government officials, 27.9 billion were planned, and this year it is 29.1 billion. I'm going to beg a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133690	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, counselor, thank you very much. Amendment number 523 of Representative Mark Sladoliev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, in explaining our amendment, the State Secretary and the other State Secretarys defended that the referendum was a form of political action and that it belonged to the same category, as regards administrative matters and as regards financing with political parties. I consider this reason invalid, I believe that the referendum initiatives are in a much more unfavourable position than the political parties for the simple reason that they are not financed from the state budget, which is most of the referendum initiatives are actually on a volunteer basis, and even the Syndicates don't have such infrastructure as they have political parties, because the Trade Unions are funded from membership rather than from the state budget, and I think that this equality is going towards suppressing the referendum initiatives which, of course, the government is not responding to. So, these last, referendum initiatives on amending the electoral law certainly don't fit the ruling majority, they publicly said that, and what's wrong with me, is that they settled here in a protureferendum initiative which is therefore not subject to these laws, and as regards transparency with the referendum initiatives. I don't think that's fair, and I personally think that the referendum initiatives and authorities shouldn't be in some conflict, but we should work together on the citizens' interests, here they are opposing, deeply opposed. We want to highlight this in these amendments, and we ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133692	Thank you. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bernardich. I, I'm obliged to just warn that the president of your club has said to book a break, but I guess it wasn't about you, so I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133693	As party president, I'll...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133694	I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133695	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, thank you very much, I'm looking for a break. The motive of our break is to once again warn the HDZ of this Law, the ruling one, raising the eligible amount that can be spent in the campaign to somehow justify the money they receive from the black funds. We all know that HDZ is funded from black funds, we all know that these black funds also finance pre-election campaigns. By raising this amount, they de facto want to legalise money from black funds, they want to launder money and show it in a pre-election campaign. As for the referendum, I think it is important today to send an important message, no matter what the referendum question will look like, under what conditions a referendum will be conducted, we in the SDP will never allow the referendum to challenge the Constitution of guaranteed rights of national minorities, religious minorities, gender minorities. We don't share people in SDP whether you're male or female, whether you're young or young, gay or straight, whether you're Croat, Serb, Roma, Bosniak, Italian, Hungarian, Catholic, Orthodox, or Muslim, for us in SDP is irrelevant, everyone is invited to make their contribution and all people in our country must be equal. However, in order to avoid any further doubt that the HDZ's leadership is missing ballots, as money disappears, we warn of the importance of more rigorous control and implementation of the referendum itself. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, these are very well-founded reasons for the break, and I ask you to grant a ten-minute recess.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133696	Of course I'll approve, up to ten and fifty-two minutes. Thank you. We can't talk because it's a break of ten and fifty-two minutes. .../Laughter./ Until, like, one o'clock. [[/Intruder: How long do you preside? By what hour?]] Session interrupted at 10.42 hours. [[/Intruder: Around one?]] 10.52 minutes, proceed with the amendments. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.50 HOURS]] But I would sooner, on behalf of all of you and my personal name, welcome the members of the International Women's Club Zagreb, who are with us today... It's nice to have you with us and a lot of greetings from all of us, as you can see. [[Applause.]] Now it's 524th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133698	The Honorable Chairman. As you can see, we continue to fight our fight, the fight against this law, which is the Law on the financing of political activities, election campaigns and referendums as a whole, and which do not contribute to the restriction of donation of political money, but rather, will cause an increase in the total amount of political funding and contain provisions that will potentially enable political corruption and fraud of voters. Badly regulates the funding of referendum campaigns, which should not be the subject of this law at all, and therefore, we at MOST as such are unacceptable. After all, the promoter did not accept any of our proposals from the debate in the first reading. We have therefore submitted such a large number of amendments to the final proposal, wanting to point out once again that the way you're going to implement the hack over 570 local self-government makes no sense. We want citizens to hear it, we want to stop political corruption because, as we have already stated in many amendments, it will be possible to multiplely, by one person, multiple parties and more individuals, be allocated money during the campaign. Therefore, the MOST of Independent Lists with these amendments primarily wants to point out that the party must receive money that it has earned on the basis of the election result, rather than the basis of political trade and refugees. And for this reason, we advocate that this legislative proposal does not see the light of day, before the president of the Republic of Croatia sets out elections for the euro of parliamentary elections because we want to make it clear that already in these elections HDZ will not receive 4 million kuna from citizens, from the taxes they have drawn from their salaries. I demand a vote on this law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133699	Thank you very much. And we're moving on to the 525th Amendment of Representatives, Mr. Nicola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133700	Your Honor, Vice President. You're not so involved in this law. This also shows that you have not participated in this night's debate, have failed to force you to come here, because your political option will not get any increase, or you do not plan to spend, even if it is possible, so much money for the election promotion. But the other vice presidents were very agile to do everything to make this bill go away, so that HDZ would increase the amount of funds from 1.5 million kuna to 4 million kuna and, therefore, justify some of the money for this election campaign for European elections. We think it's totally unacceptable, when we propose laws that go in favor of our citizens, they don't come here at all for discussion in HS, and when HDZ needs to deepen its party register, its party bag, then we have a situation to push the law like this, here, now I'm receiving information, so that tomorrow, allegedly at 15 o'clock, I don't know what's going to happen. They obviously realized that we were determined to continue to defend these amendments. They may finally pass the law before the president calls the elections, but in any case, for those money they intend to spend and raise to their parties, or to their HDZ party, they will have to work hard. However, they weren't exactly, so here, Mr. Secretary of State, they left two women here to defend day and night, that is, to refuse our amendments, he only appeared this morning. Apparently, they weren't aware of what would happen here, from the Most as the only true opposition here in HS. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133701	Thank you very much. We now move to the 526th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. He refers to Art. And on the 75th, we're looking for a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133702	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I welcome you, as well as all MPs and deputies who later joined. The amendments are not accepted for reasons which we have already explained in Amendment 404-415 because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133703	Just to remind you, from now on to next, to the amendment to the next article, we'll talk about erasing the article. 75. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please, Mr. Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133704	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course this is a very indicative article, he's actually saying that the public funds used are not supposed to be used for personal purposes and it's good to recognize that it's a problem, and the best thing to do is recognize that it's your problem. But, again, to this stage, Croatian citizens are practically impossible to reach. All you've done with the amendments is to prevent a referendum from happening at all. To get people to decide on some issue they think politics is not capable or politics makes a wrong decision. So, all of this in the end, it's just the continuity of what we've been saying. There is no need to bring a whole set of new articles, if in the end no one can benefit. I'd like to see you put in law how you plan to hold a referendum. So we had three during the modern Croatian state, after the Homeland War, actually one sight, two after the Homeland War, and people simply can't organize themselves the way you plan to do it according to your proposal for this law. Not to get the funding. That's why by considering what we've had during this whole debate that's been going on for hours and hours now, we can only confirm one thing. This is a law that only corresponds to the current ruling option, and to those to whom it should be most intended, it is for people who want to make a statement through the referendum on some key issues that Croatia is primarily plagued by and what should be made easier by life, primarily by the parties, which is that you did. for your own purposes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133705	Thank you. Amendment No. 527 of Mira Bulj's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133706	Thank you very much. It is not appropriate, secretary, that in this law with political parties and state financing, citizens' initiatives around the referendum are mixed as foxes and chickens in the same basket. It's important to figure it out here. But it's none of your business. You like this, you only care about one thing. To get the HDZ to $2.5 million for the campaign. That's what matters to you. It doesn't matter to you what kind of health care is in the area of the Republic of Croatia, what the rows are, you don't care how it goes, whether it's going to be those referendums at all, it doesn't matter to you what it is with schooling, which is with two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia that are in mountainous areas, which have been embezzled and manipulated by this law that was a hoax. The whole area is empty because of your policy. And the referendum is the only means of citizens in a democratic state who can plead on certain issues. But you don't care. Everyone had a good night's sleep, you ate well and drank during the election campaign in Lika, important that there were more ministers in Lica than citizens, our President of Parliament sang patriotic songs, important that you showed up downstairs, did you have the Ministers down there now? Empty. Empty schools, empty maternity homes. Empty classrooms, empty stables or farms. You don't have anything, you've ruined everything. Worse than all occupiers, from the Turkish Empire to free Croatia, you have done more damage because of this behavior, when you wrap in a tie and come here. There were more ministers behind each beech than there were in Zagreb. I'm asking for that vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133707	Thank you, too. Amendment No. 528th Representative Robert Dolnjak. He's gone, and then he'll be voted on. 529th representative of Hrvojo Runtic. He's gone. He'll be voted on. 530th Representative Slaven Dobrovic. He's gone. He'll vote. 531st representative of Ante Pranic. He's gone, he'll vote. 532th representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. She's gone. He's got it. Until you turn on the light.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133708	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Respected State Secretary, Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and fellow MPs. This amendment says that the article is deleted. 75. The proposer considers that the legal text should exclude the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum itself. In addition to this, the proposer considers that the proposed law does not address the problem of funding referendum activities as it regulates only civil initiatives that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run an anti-referendum campaign nor regulate the rights and obligations or restrictions of state bodies, government and HS in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information from the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-Council, the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives will also be introduced. Thus, pro-referendum initiatives should be registered or registered by their representatives and such anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign, and it is only justified to regulate the financing of referendum and pro-tourendum initiatives at the same time in one law. The Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions, the referendum falls within the category of electoral laws, and according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, electoral laws should not be passed in the election year. According to the proposal, this law should enter into force during the implementation of the EU parliamentary election, which is absolutely unacceptable, so we propose that the entry into force of this law on 1 February 2020. I demand a vote on this amendment. And thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133709	Amendment 533 by God Petrov, please welcome Mr. Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133710	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, once in a row of these hours, I said the quote of a politician, I will repeat it. That politician said, "It's not my success, it's not my success in my appearance, it's in my pocket." And that's what this law is trying to do amongst others. So, they will approve more millions of their site to use a little bit in political marketing, to make them a little more beautiful, to do a little bit of Brebranding, to build some of the pokin's villages, to allow other natural legal persons to donate a lot more money and with more parties, to spot a lot more money in the political campaign, all of it will do so in order to show that Croatia is the way they imagine it, and unfortunately they are born so much that they can't even imagine how the average Croat lives today. This law is not used absolutely by anyone, no group in Croatian society, and I will repeat today a million times, except for one political party. And the frames have been discussing it for almost 20 hours to get to their goal, to take it for themselves, yet. It does not benefit entrepreneurs, nor farmers, nor young people, nor pensioners, nor families, nor benefit anyone, but to them alone. To take another little bit of a million. When's it enough? Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133711	Thank you. Sonja Cikotic will now explain Amendment No 534.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133712	To the proposed amendments, I suggest that the above text in the article be deleted, the part relating in fact to the financing of the referendum. Why? Because we're coming up with a new referendum law, he's going to be on e-consultation soon there will be an institute actually introduced a protureferendum initiative where the closer ones will edit. Therefore, it remains unclear why the Proposer wants to put this referendum initiative into this very law, and it is not at all in line with the spirit of the law. Reference initiatives are, in fact, spontaneous gatherings of citizens who can by no means characterise themselves as organised political actions, because they are temporary. What I would like to point out is that this law is transparent in what it intends to accomplish. What he means to achieve are increased funds for electoral political promotion, which is an increase in all election cycles, means for all representative bodies, for the president of the state and in all actually election races, because obviously I don't know and I don't understand, if someone is ruling and if there are 20 ministries and there's also a bunch of state secretaries and a bunch of assistants that all these powerful officials fail to achieve results that can be affirmed in the Croatian public, without the need for such political actually money for political promotion. So it remains absolutely unclear to me that besides everything, of everything you actually have at your disposal, you're actually down to promiscuity. That's why when the results are missing, then there's something you need to say. The referendum initiative is commending a valuable initiative and it is actually the Institute of Direct Democracy. I'm going to beg a vote on this amendment and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133713	Thank you very much. And now I welcome the members of the Moto Club Osijek who are with us and we're glad you're with us. Let's move on with Mr. Mark Sladolev's 535th Amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so the whole intensities of this law, so according to the rulers, were therefore two words used, rationalization and transparency. And so this amendment that I'm proposing now refers to as that. Now it's not clear to me, it doesn't make sense to me, so rationalization seems to me that when you rationalize something that reduces something so that some means are reduced, it's increasing here. So that logic doesn't suit me at all, so at a time when Croatia is in crisis, at a time when GDP is growing, at a time when wages are growing we are increasing the amount for political parties. And on the other hand, transparency a few months ago here in the Croatian Parliament was the Law on the Register of Real Owners of Companies, and it was one of the EU Directives that the rulings extended for a year. And now we're going to have donors to the political parties of certain companies, and we don't know who the owners of these companies are. So it also points to Europe that we must bring in everything from Europe, which is bad, which means we are adopting it, and what we are making it right. So, if rationalization and transparency are the intensities of this law, then I ask that by ruling me be assured that it is possible. So, we believe that at a time of crisis, political parties need less money, that they need to know who the donors are, and not that one donor can donate more political parties like Ivica Todorovic did, that's what we're going to fight for, that's what we're communicating and we're asking for to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133715	And now it's Amendment 536, Madam Ines Strenja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133716	So today, we are only fighting here so that in Croatia citizens have the right to a referendum statement and against increasing the amount that you want by quick vote of this law to assign HDZ to have the best, most beautiful, most magnificent campaign now coming for the European elections for the European Parliament. And that is why we ask that articles on referendum activities be deleted because we believe that a special referendum law should be drawn up but a good referendum law. In addition to the above, the proposer considers that the proposed law does not define the problem of funding referenda activities because you only edit citizens' initiatives that initiate a referendum but do not regulate those entities that will run an anti-referendum campaign or regulate the rights and obligations of state bodies, government and Croatian Parliament in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in the e-consultation, will be introduced by the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives and confirmed by High Minister Lovro Kuščević. Thus, pro-tourendum initiatives should also be institutionalised. Register, report to your representative, etc. According to the logic of the matter, such anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign and it is only justified that referendum and pro-tureendum initiatives will be regulated at the same time in one law. And that's why we think that this kind of law can't be and that's why we're asking to delete article 75 of the proposed law. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133717	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Nicole Grmoy's turn, Mr. Agent Nicole Grmoy, and the amendment is number 537.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133718	Thank you, Vice President. It's clear what's going on here, they don't intend to give up, they're ready to hold a vote tomorrow just to deepen their party bag, their party register, but I have one proposal. I call on the President of the Republic of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic to call the European elections today, to start running deadlines and to have this farce you're spending here, in order to fill the HDZ party register is over. If really Kolinda Grabar Kitarović is the president of all citizens and not the HDZ President, she will because I think that all Croatian citizens who watch this are having a hard time watching you fight for that 2.5 or 3 million kuna. How many affairs were you involved in? How much money you've stolen and not enough and now you're asking for more, even more, so you want to pass this law, here Parliament employees are barely sitting people over, after this debate that lasts means 27, 8 hours and 18 or 19 is about these amendments, so you don't want to stop just to deepen your party register. I said on several occasions that a small part of this energy you invest to deepen your party bag, invest in changing Croatia, do not let the young leave Croatia, we would not have had Mr. Boric, Slavonia empty, the Dalmatian Zagora would not be empty, this would not be happening with our Croatian what is happening at this time and I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133719	Thank you very much. Now we move on to Article 76 of the amendment is to delete Article 76, that is, 538. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, Mrs. Secretary of State Rimac will manifest himself, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133720	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the proposer of this law, I am aware of the amendments from regular number 538 to regular number 549. The amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing and financing other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133721	Thank you, too. Mr Panenic will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133722	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I see you've been refreshed, and I'm glad we're hanging out here again, and we've all kind of wanted to have one beauty treatment so that we can contribute this debate to her not only to what we're discussing but also to be happy and that means that you accept it, so accept that these changes are not appropriate right now. Why do you even put your party in a position to be called public that he wants only money? Why is it important to spend more than a million and a half kuna on these elections that will now be for the European Parliament? Because you're afraid, I've heard your president say that we're going to get the bottom of this election to a maximum of great results, but we're already proud of why spending money if there's already such a situation, there's no need, that 2.5 million kuna we'd spend more, you can donate somewhere well. Well, at the end of the day, here's a colleague of mine who mentioned Mrs. Devereaux. President, what I'd just say, and she gave you her money back then from the campaign, so when she got it for success, she gave it to you as strangers. There's probably something left of it or you've spent it all. However, it is also a challenge for the president to call elections today, it is easier to have 8 million kuna in the presidential elections than with twice as much. So 8 million kunas to keep someone president. And today, if this isn't adopted, you only have 4 million, it's too much of a risk, it's a risk that one person is hard to expect to make a decision, and that's why you as a party have to protect the president and remain president of all Croats and that you don't have to present yourself with an invitation to call today's elections and ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133723	The 539th identical amendment of Mr. Representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133724	Thank you very much. It all came down to the fact that HDZ is increasing its bag, in cash amount, and that Prime Minister Plenkovic is making a campaign so that, not in the interest of the people who feed us the Crown, but in the interest of Tajani, an Italian fascist who says that Istria and Dalmatia, that they are not, but the Republic of Croatia, in the interest of the European regiments where his friend and colleague Aleksandar Vucic, a brusher in the war, for these people, is important to him to lobby there to make Minister Buric the head of certain institutions, which is important to him. But she's got a saying, and I'm gonna do it again, and whoever feeds you bread with your dad, you call him, and you're the only one who accounts for it. And this representative body, the only one who has the right to account, is to the Croatian people, not Tajani, not Junker, who holds our prime minister's hand in front of all the world's cameras, and he calls for his friendship. Neither Macron nor Merkel, to which it favours its German-owned company, has the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia at the expense of Croatian education, health care, local self-government, county road administrations. The only one we answer to is the Croatian people, the Honorable chairman. No one has the right to answer to the Croatian parliament, but the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that is very important and most important, but Lovro Kuščević is a coward, graver of the referendum and one obeyer of Andrej Plenkovic, who serves only these characters. which I have listed, I ask for this vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133725	Amendment 540 of Robert Dolnjak, identical content, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133726	I regret Mr. Vice-President HS, the respected State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, that, as my colleague Grumoja has said, this can be stopped by the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia which can now call elections for members of the European Parliament, and this is in its power, it does not have to wait until tomorrow, or Monday, that decision can already be made today and thus, by making a decision, this law cannot be applied to the upcoming elections for the European Parliament, regardless of this strong insistence of the ruling that the ruling be made by force today or tomorrow, in order to give it as soon as possible to sign the head of state which has to sign the law and to send it to the People's Journal as soon as possible and to come into effect at the same time with a decision to call the elections, and before next Tuesday. And this Zeit note is at all asked whether all of this can actually be done in such an extremely short time, given that in front of us and the weekend where the National Journal is not working, or in fact all together will have to work overtime, not only here in HS, but also in the National Journal to print the Official Journal in order to make it public and to make all legions of artis work and pretend that everything is in accordance with the Constitution and laws. So I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133727	Thank you. Amendment of 541, MP Hrvojo Runtic... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know, listen, you... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, I said you can't ask a question, that I'll answer you, I found out from you, let's move on... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I found out from you that maybe tomorrow they'll vote, so now you see where they're supposed to go, I don't know. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Representative Hrvoje Runtić, identical content, art. In 541, he's gone, it's a vote. Sir. Representative Slaven Dobrović, identical content, 542. gone, gala. Sir. Representative Ante Pranic, identical content, 543th vote. - Mrs. Crescent. Representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, here he is or is not Here you go. [[I'm here, I'm here.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133728	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear State Secretarys, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, this amendment says that an article is deleted. In 76, we believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. The Law itself on the financing of political activity and election promotion and referendums falls within the category of electoral laws, and according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, electoral laws should not be passed in the election year. The Constitutional Court also considers that HS should respect such good parliamentary practice even though it is not normatively prescribed. According to the proposal, this law should enter into force during the European Parliament's election, which is absolutely unacceptable, and as the presidential elections with a possible second round are held at the end of the year, it may also be in January according to earlier practice, and therefore the entry into force of the law on 1 February 2020 is proposed. In addition to all of this, we believe that the proposed law, the law on the problem of funding referendum activities, is not high-quality norms, because it regulates only citizens' initiatives, which initiate a referendum and do not regulate those entities that will run an anti-referendum campaign, nor regulates the rights and obligations, i.e. the restriction of state bodies in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-consultation, will also be introduced by the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives, as confirmed by the minister himself, and it turns out that funding for referendum and proturefrenda initiatives will be regulated in one law. We demand a vote on this amendment and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133729	Thank you. Mr. Representative Bozo Petrov, Amendment 545 of identical content.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133730	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I can understand that it's not easy for you. You don't have much use for this, except you obviously have to help your political partner. But this whole bad bill, bad, because it chokes the referendum, bad because it creates earrings, bad because it gives millions of kunas to political parties, that is, one of the most. The whole circus they've been having since yesterday morning, during the night and today, can solve one person. I call on Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, if she is the president of all Croatian citizens, and not only the president of HDZ citizens, to call today's elections, so all this circus and this disgrace, caused by the last 24 hours, will be as healed. Here, I invite her, if she has cheeks, if she wants good for Croatia, let her break this shame. I'm aware that you can't, that you can't, but she can. Let her do it, because as far as we can see, they're not enough, after billions of blackouts in the last 28 years, from which they could finance 6,000 campaigns like this, they want more and they still don't have enough. There's one group of people like that, in a society that gets used to it. And obviously these guys, they got hooked on a different kind of substance, it's not enough. And okay, I can accept that it's not enough, but that person, he can stop this. This madness of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, if she is the president of all Croatian citizens, can stop this disgrace today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133731	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much for your concern, but I'm fine. But I want to inform you, for those of you who don't know, and I suppose you all know, that all the time, if someone's not doing well at the Steinmiger clinic, all the while, if someone's not doing well, 50 meters from here, they can be obvious. Thank you very much. No, because they're worried if I'm okay, I'm fine, no, thank you very much, thank you very much. Representative Sonja Čikotić, please, 546 amendments of identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133732	The Honorable Chairman, a respected secretary of state, as we can see, the minister has not arrived yet, although the defence is actually a two-day debate on this law. He hasn't arrived yet. He sent you to defend what's indefensible. In fact, it is inconceivable to identify a referendum initiative, with the action of political parties. It is inconceivable that the same organisational, administrative, financial capacity of the referendum initiative, which occurs, can be local, can be national. It actually appears spontaneously, it appears as a gathering of temporary citizens to resolve a particular issue. Political parties, do not associate temporarily, political parties, have a series of public policies that want to act to improve quality and society or their own certain other things. What I want to point out is also unacceptable, to me personally, which is that you, by this law, actually prescribe, how much individual, local, regional budgets, will have to single out per elected representative means, fee per year for political work. So it's simply unacceptable because it touches jurisdiction, local, or regional self-government, and we know that under the Constitution, local self-government cannot prescribe these financial obligations specifically for this kind of political action. Also, Croatia is faced with a demographic breakdown and you have provided the counties with a minimum for political action, according to a representative of 5000 kn. Today the child's allowance is 2400 kn per year for 1 child, 5000 kn minimum for political action 2400 for children's allowance, per year... Please vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133733	Thank you, too. 547 Mr. Representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we started talking about doctors too, so I'm going to say that in medical terminology I've heard different phobias, from claustrophobia to xenophobia, but I'm not familiar with phobia from my own people. I think this law is marked by this phobia, although I don't understand it. Therefore, referendum initiatives, which may be accompanied by a certain political option of good or bad, are being prevented. But I think it prevents so much of the referendum initiative, which has good intentions, for example. A referendum initiative to introduce the euro or such things, I do not understand. Well, that's already another topic, but in this law it's about funding the election campaign president, so, as we all know, she doesn't have too much authority, and here's the power of opportunity MOST has led to today's ability to show one power, can justify this great money, and it can call elections, and can prevent the adoption of this law. So, I think it's good to go to the game of the Croatian national team, and I think it's also good to prevent bad laws, laws that don't use these citizens, and I think the president would in some way justify herself for the questionable donations and who are burdened on her and about Zdravko Mamić, she now has a chance to do one good thing, and we're going to ask to vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133735	Thank you very much. Ms. Ines Strenja, Amendment 548, same content.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133736	Thank you. With this amendment, we asked to delete another in a series of articles that regulates the referendum initiative. First of all, I would like to invite the President of the Republic of Croatia, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, to sign and sign the Decision and call the euro parliamentary elections, thus preventing this farce from being imposed by such a law, which will further pump up in the HDZ campaign, two and a half million kunas, and which they will once again be able to demonstrate during these two months that they are the best, most beautiful and strongest party in Croatia. But I'm sorry that HDZ didn't show so much strength by changing some of the other things that should have been changed in our country. Tonight, I said on several occasions that one of the reasons about, one of the reasons why you should have considered, especially as regards donations to political parties, and the additional funds you want in this system, is that, after two years after the VAT is abolished on the food donation, the food donation system is not working, and a thousand tonnes are thrown in Croatia daily. And in order to encourage food donations, we need not only to bring some quasi intentions and guidelines, but we need much greater involvement of donors, trade chains and producers, and as an example of good practice we need to look at how some people in Ireland did it, where there are a lot of our people, so they can pass on some of their experiences, and they have organized a whole system of food donations by making one big world-renowned trade chain TESCO realize that food is better to donate than to throw, and it works there, not with us. Thank you. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133737	Time. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133738	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I request a three-hour break to consult within the Club on the fact that the government intends to allow the parties to spend 30 to 40 million kuna in the euro parliamentary elections, and already in advance all seats are divided in the European Parliament, and possibly one or two places will change sides during the campaign. It's really sad that so much money is given to two politicians, and at the same time they could have invested in, say, a helicopter rescue service that saves 900 people a year, and it doesn't have enough capacity, so they would have saved lives, and they wouldn't have made life easy. Also, money could be given to firefighters because it would not be a crazy cost like this for the campaign, but this cost would actually be income, future firefighters who will now be defending Croatian property and lives all summer, killing them doing a very good job not only for Croatian society, but also for the budget. Also with these 30 to 40 million kunas, about five thousand state scholarships could be given to students at the annual level, and we know that many students, or their parents, cannot cover the cost of studies, and this, unfortunately, they have to work to even study, which is, of course, very difficult, if not impossible, and many of them have to give up their studies, because simply because of these 700-800 kunas are not able, therefore, to become academic citizens. In view of all the facts that he has now presented in this comparative analysis, I ask you to be so kind and expedient and to approve the request for a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133739	Of course I'll approve the break by 11.50. Thank you. [[Session interrupted at 11.40 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:51 A.M.]] Now it's Amendment number 549, Mr. Agent Nikola Grumoy's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133741	Dear Vice President, just before I called on President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who has announced that by the end of this week he will call the elections, to do so and to end this farce, to disable the HDZ that insists on pushing this law, here it is now announced that tomorrow there will be a vote on amendments and the law itself, so trying to push this through, the president can end this whole, because if the president is now calling the elections this is, there is no reason to continue the debate any longer when we have to discuss these amendments, we have when to vote the law, but then the law will not apply to these elections. So I call on the president and ask her if she is the president of all Croatian citizens or does she do what Gordan Jandrokovic and Andrej Plenkovic say. Whether President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic is waiting for the law to be passed here in the assembly, to be counter-constitutional, which means that the Legislative Committee decided to immediately enter into force on the day of its adoption and then sign it for the vote to be called. If that is true, if the president works in such a way in favour of a political party it is absolutely unacceptable and we call on the president to call the elections at this time, we know that in Zagreb, she was at the game last night, so there's no problem signing to discuss the elections and that simply this story here, this attempt by HDZ to get the extra money for the election campaign, means that this story ends. He's telling me now that a colleague from HDZ is here, so we're going to vote this bill regardless of your resistance. We know that, but we want to show you what's important and important to you. All that matters to you is the party money. And that's what interests you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133742	Thank you very much. Now the new content, the new article of the law in the amendments, is Article 77 and, of course, is proposed to be deleted. The first amendment is 550. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, but before that, the secretary of state will be manifested, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133743	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs, on behalf of the legislator, for the amendments from regular 550 to 561, the amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133744	So 550. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Article 77 is deleted, please see Mr Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133745	Thank you very much, imagine the secretary of state so it would be nice if the president said no party could spend more than 1.5 million in these elections, it would be, wouldn't it sound better to our citizens. Or that she says the law will be passed and 4 million will spend large parties, we can't even spend 1.5 million of what, but she's just doing such an impression for big parties who will try to spend a lot of money to achieve great results, but on the other hand, who they fear, those in power who, they think are excellently ruling the state, that there's prosperity here, that people will recognize that they will get a bunch of mandates and not necessarily expose themselves to that mountain of mandate being spent another 3 larger hills of money. I think 1.5 million kunas would be one such beautiful number and it would be proud of the HDZ party, it would be also to the president himself, and you could probably buy the Styrofoam and a little bit for those who have been in the party for so long if you put around them to neutralize them that would be great, that would be wonderful. It's the ones who, if they looked at themselves in the mirror, would probably be aware of how much damage they've done to the Republic of Croatia, its citizens, and even today they like to make fun of MPs, too, with those citizens who are trying to manipulate them, is it? But let's go back to this serious topic where this report itself would show how rational we can be and fight for the right of our representatives in the European Parliament to represent our interests justly and ultimately be at the least cost that we can actually achieve by a law that would not be in such a proposal. And that's why we're asking for the amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133746	Amendment 551. Mr. Representative Miro Bulj, same content.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133747	Well, let's not repeat ourselves, Lovro Kuštević was trying to be here, and not all night to keep Josipa Rimac lady defending the amendments here and another lady, so it was first discrimination against women otherwise the hero Lovro Kustević, the minimum courtesy was that such an important law he defends, and not leave this to those who are at the mercy and mercy within the HDZ. And that's how it is. And as far as the law itself is concerned, it is now important that the HDZ this amount of $4.5 million will pass, 2.5 million more, and that is important to them. That it's so important to them, for example. The Swiss resolution or franc, the franc loans and the EU courts and yes, so I voted it here, and that the EU courts, that our European practice is a principle and principle, these are superjudicials, let's solve this problem, let's solve the problem of the law that we unanimously voted here, the law on the integrity of the RBA loan of cooperatives, so on. lex kibola, let's get busy and discuss it and solve the status behind it no matter what the European Court says, let's not stop here, let's stand behind the referendum being more open, more transparent, simpler, so that people can decide, rather than graver Lovro Kuščević, stop in essence, spit on 400,000 voters' signatures and here in parliament mock us in fact where the will of the people needs to be, and not. Therefore, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, a colleague of the Grmoja River, and the rest of it is from the same incubator as Prime Minister Plenkovic and President HS Jandrokovic, and they will work in co-ordination as they have so far. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133748	Thank you. 552. Robert Podlonjak, he's gone, he's gone, he's going, he's going to vote. 553rd MP Hrvoje Runtic, gone, will vote. 554. Representative Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133749	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I also welcome a respected secretary of state who is still alone, representing, or refuting, our amendments. So, this amendment concerns the referendum, so we think that the referendum issue has no place in the law that defines or solves, regulates the problem of funding political work because I don't really know what, why the fear of a referendum, is so worried that any referendum could endanger some democratic freedom or the quality of democratic political life. This can be said in particular after the vote-counting experience when two initiatives have recently been identified by a very large number of invalid signatures without being properly documented. In fact, the referendum, I think, should all agree on this, should be one decoration of a democratic society, so the referendum as the most direct way of participating citizens in political life is something that we all have to cherish. So we ask that, of course, this article is deleted and that we generally require a different relationship with the matter of the referendum. This law, which is announced, is necessary, but it must go in the direction of affirmation of such a political declaration by citizens. I will, of course, beg to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133750	Thank you. Five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five... What... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you're looking to find out if you're voting today or tomorrow, we don't know, nobody, I don't know, I don't have that information... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] You mean to tell me, you're a lawyer, what? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133751	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to give you a statement. 228th century 2. The Rules of Procedure, which shall state the order of discussion of the agenda points, as set out in the rule, shall not be amended in the current week of the sitting. As you know, we've received a hearing schedule for this week and now at 12 o'clock it was scheduled to take place in HS. You just told my colleague Bauku you didn't have any information, I beg you for that, but not according to the article. 248th because I have no right to do so, but please, from the point of view of common sense, to determine one break, even if it takes half an hour to meet the presidency of HS and to inform parliamentary representatives of when they will be the vote shall take place [[Intruder: Thank you]] Excuse me just one more moment, this is about a very rude violation of a parliamentary procedure that has not been usual so far. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] in HS because this situation as far as I know, so far we haven't had, you're here a lot. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] sued me and you know it well. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133752	I know well that in this HS there was, and your club president knows that in this HS there were all these, but also all sorts of debates and all sorts of decisions, so he wouldn't engage in that matter, but he would give the word to Mr. Bulju.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133753	Thank you very much. I also, what my colleague Grbin asked the question, yesterday exactly said the president of HS that all the points discussed by 12 hours would be voted, and after that will continue the debate on the agenda. So, first of all, he broke the order of the agenda, but he did point out that all the points discussed by noon, today Friday, would be a vote at noon, which means that the Rules of Procedure are being violated here and essentially here, the Assembly MPs are being manipulated [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133754	Thank you very much. Yeah, yeah, breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're entitled to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133755	Dear Vice President HS, Art. 228, which regulates the publication of the agenda, clearly and unequivocally confirms that the Rules of Procedure have been broken in these provisions, as it is explicitly stated that the President of the HS hereby publishes the established agenda, and the order of discussion of the agenda points as set out in the rule does not change in the current week of the session. Therefore, we should now have a vote on the debated points, this is not happening, the Rules of Procedure has been broken and beyond that we cannot simply cross over. Please, you are in the position of the chairman and you must conclude that the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133756	What I have to decide, unfortunately, is me, and you can turn around, you know who. I'm going to work now and you're doing your job, and I'm going to do my job and I'm going to give Mr. Petrova my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133757	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 228 has been broken, and I think you're aware of that. Yes, you have the option since you're currently chairman, to decide whatever you want, that's correct. But on the other hand, I invite you to a grain of reason throughout this story and correctness, you know that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, so don't you make your decisions to further violate the Rules of Procedure, go over it. I understand you can do that, I apologize, just one more sentence. I understand that this can cause the market, everything is clear to me but each of us is an individual, but each of us is an individual, you as chairman are not in the role of a political partner, but you maintain order and stick to the Rules of Procedure, I beg you, please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133758	As soon as the amendments have started to be voted on, I will not enter into the debate, I will continue to declare the amendments and you have the right to your opinion but when the debate on amendments begins, the discussions on amendments must be concluded before voting. It has happened in the assembly several times that we started voting at 1, at 2 p.m., not at 12 as planned because we haven't finished voting on the amendments yet. As you know, you know, because you have submitted these amendments, we must vote to the end on these amendments, I will give you all my word, and in the end I will continue with the amendments because that is what I must do as chairman and as at this point one of you who must coordinate and who must finish the job. Here you go, Mr. Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133759	Vice President, Article 228 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure, it is clear that the vote has been announced but thanks to these tenacious and courageous people here, it has been disabled. I, as club president, can't tell them anything else but I love you and I'm proud of you. So we won over HDZ who tried to deepen his party register and now he's here and the vice president is confused and it would be best to be vice president, now you're probably talking about what to do, you're consulting, but the best thing to do is to stop the session, to consult what to do because it's clear that you should have a vote right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133760	Thank you, you've come a long time. Please don't, I don't want to give a warning, the vote will be like every time a statement on amendments begins, we've had such situations, not so long, but we've had an hour, two hours, just a little, I have to say something until the end. When we started to declare the amendments, we all know that some time we didn't vote at 12 but at 1, at 2 p.m. when the vote on amendments ended, absolutely yes, absolutely yes, and so will I. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133761	You've injured Rules of Procedure 228, article. Just don't make a circus out of the Parliament. Don't create and potential some things that just haven't happened since I've been in Parliament. When the vote was announced, there would be a vote, maybe there would be no quorum or something, the vote was said to be at 12 o'clock. You're deliberately provoking some kind of anti-reaction, that's what you're interested in. But this is a very important thing to vote on. [[It's over, you're done with, I'm sorry...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133762	I'm sorry, don't let me start making warnings. I've already answered that question, don't ask me that question again, you know that you can ask that question to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, I say that no Rules of Procedure have been broken because it's not the first time that we've made a statement, today they're going to vote, they're going to vote after or today, or when we're going to end up with the amendments, and you know about the amendments when we're going to end up and not us. I'm sorry, but if you have another question to ask, there are warnings. If you have it again, because that's what I answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133763	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Article 228 has been violated. Rules of Procedure, please do not create double criteria at the moment when you as chairman actually have no solution because it is not at 12 o'clock vote. So don't give us any warning when you don't have a solution. Be aware that we're only on 600 and some amendment, there's 900 amendments times 2 minutes is actually too much time, you can't vote at 1 or 2 hours That's all I'm saying. [[You'll last, you're young.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133764	Who wants to talk any further? I won't give you a warning because if you don't continue [[Intruder Chikotic: Please give us...]] If you don't continue, I won't give you a warning, if not, I will, both first and second. [[Intruder Chikotic: Please inform us.]] Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133765	Dear Vice President, I just want to warn you of one thing. I want to quote to you President of the Parliament yesterday who said 12 will vote, until then discussed points. So 12 will vote until then. I think it's quite clear that at 12 o'clock there was supposed to be a vote and that this point wasn't discussed, here's just so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133766	Okay. I repeat, when the debate on amendments begins, it must be brought to an end and then voted. That's how it's always been, I'll keep going and you have the right to your opinion and you know where to point it. 555, Mr. Representative,... Not the same because I'm going to warn you immediately, not the same, I'm sorry, not the same, I'm sorry, not the same. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, because after voting on the amendment,...... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] After voting on amendments, this is how it's always been, and I'll keep doing it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, ma'am. Shots fired.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133767	.../ The speaker is not on. you are the President of the Croatian Parliament, acting on the basis of Article 229, chaired by the President of the Parliament or, if absent or prevented, by one of the vice-presidents. I think it is your duty to continue what the President of the Parliament has said, and that is to stick to what he has told us, and he said that at noon he will vote on the points discussed, and after that we will continue to declare the amendments. Have you checked with him whether that is the case, or if this is your decision, I am interested in it now, because we want to respect the decision of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133768	We will continue with the amendments, and this one, can I finish?, we will continue with the vote on the amendments, with the vote we have started. Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133769	Dear Vice President. It is not correct for you to injure Article 228, you are warned by so many MPs and MPs, do not insist on it. It's not about the vote, it's about the debate, it's about the order. So it is known that at 12:00 today we need to have this, and they are right colleagues and colleagues who claim that we should now have what the President of the Parliament has decided. If you can't make a deal with him, consult, but the best intention was to take a break and make a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133770	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133771	Dear Vice President. I refer to Article 228 which has been broken, because in the end we have two vice-presidents of the Parliament, of which here he, along with fellow colleagues and colleagues, claims that it was said so, too. In the end, you claim not to. To me it's honest as an advocate, it's unclear who's telling the truth here, that. I would demand, what, to determine what was actually said yesterday, to then act on it. If you feel that the President of the Parliament has not spoken the truth, then it seems to us that in future time it is not relevant to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133772	Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133773	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. As long as the President of the Croatian Parliament does not decide otherwise or change his decision or what was said yesterday, I think we need to stick to the dynamics or schedules as it is officially determined. If you want to change the same, it would be okay to sit down, declare a break, agree, and that the President of the Parliament or you with his authority, you say that in the meantime there has been a change of schedule that has been established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133774	Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133775	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I've got one...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133776	Oh, no, no, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133777	...so I have one rational proposal, if you don't believe us, so I think ten minutes is a long time to look at the stenogram, and to see that the President of the Parliament has said it. If you don't believe us, then it's very easy to check it out and it's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133778	So I, I to you, I, so that I would not believe you, hear you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133779	Well, no, but you can take a look.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133780	By 15 and, not ten, 15 minutes, by 12:30. Okay? Session interrupted at 12.15 hours. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.30 HOURS]] We're moving on. Please, let's get back to work. I've consulted with the President of the Parliament, and I have two things to tell you, or I'll give you two news, one for you will certainly be good, and the other for you will be safe, quite certainly bad. But that bad for you, I have a responsibility for her. While I'm sitting here, we're going to discuss the amendments, for the simple reason, which has always been a practice, so that starting amendments are discussed until the end and then voted. And the good news is, pretty soon, in about 20 minutes, the President of the Parliament will come and then you'll have a chance to discuss this decision further. Thank you very much. Let's go 557, MP Ante Pranic, he's gone, he's going to the vote. 556. Representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, is here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133782	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, this amendment says it is. The 77th deletes, because we believe that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. In addition to this, the proposer considers that in the proposed law, the problem of funding referendum activities is not high-quality norms, as it regulates only citizens of the initiative that initiate the referendum, but does not regulate those entities that will run the anti-referendum campaign, nor regulates the rights and obligations, i.e. restrictions on state bodies, government and the Croatian Parliament in the referendum campaign. According to recently published information, the new Law on Referendum, which should soon be in e-consultation, will be introduced by the Institute of Protureferendum Initiatives, which is also confirmed by Minister Lovro Kuščević himself. Thus, against the referendum initiatives should be registered, i.e. to register their representatives, and according to this logic, such anti-referendum initiatives will have to finance their campaign, and it is only justified that, at the same time, they regulate the financing of referendum and pro-tourendum initiatives. We will ask, that is, for a vote on this amendment and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133783	Thank you very much, 557 Mr. Representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133784	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I find it deeply unfair in this way to pass the bill, where happiness is repeated a little million times, where happiness, that in this way, you struggle so hard for the interests of the citizens. You have almost 100 bill proposals in the parliamentary procedure. You have an exclusive economic belt, which can bring you 10 million kuna for the state and protect the fishermen, you don't want to. You have the law, that parliamentary deputies are chosen by name and last name and to introduce e-voting, you don't want for years, rotting in the parliamentary procedure. You have the Microsloari Act, which can allow both families and entrepreneurs and savings and profits, you don't want. You have the Heat Act to finally resolve the dividers, you don't want to. There is no group, currently in Croatian society, to which this law brings profit except for you. And for more than 24 hours you've been fighting to strengthen your party register. In addition, in an indirect way you begin to choke the referendum. And it's clear to us, your secretary, the current president of the Parliament, who said a year and a half ago, that the ruling is the biggest problem, the social network. We understand that it will eventually try to destroy freedom of speech, and that is this direction you are heading. I'm asking you to stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133785	Thank you. You're asking for a vote, aren't you? Okay. Madam Representative Sonja Cikotic, please. Okay. Don't abuse it because I've talked about it, I've already given you the answer. Okay. Don't abuse it because I've talked about it, I've already given you the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133786	So, Your Honor, you didn't give me a warning. Dear Vice President, you yourself were determined to take a break. [[No warning, I said the answer.]] After that break, we didn't hear the answer to the question why there wasn't a vote at 12 o'clock. So he's been broken. 228th, and you didn't give us an answer when there was going to be a vote. So we don't intend to be here, sitting down so we don't know when we're going to vote at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133787	Time. I said. You were outside. I told you that the vote will be after the amendments have been discussed, but that you will have, and that is my decision, but you will have the opportunity to discuss what has been said and what has not been said with the President of the Parliament in one 20 minutes, as scheduled, anyway. 559th Representative Marko Sladolev. Ah, Chikotić, I apologize, my mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133788	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here, Thursday's over, Friday's halfway through. Minister Kuštević is not here. The great reformer is not here, and this law that he sent you, sent you to defend something that is indefensible, has actually sent you to put certain articles that should be in the referendum law into this law because, logically, all articles concerning the referendum initiatives will be on the referendum law because in the referendum law, as announced by the great reformer, there will be a new institute, and this is a protureendum initiative. We heard that your candidate for president, before she became president, Croatia will be Switzerland. Switzerland is known for its referendums. Why are you afraid, why are you making it difficult and why you impose a completely unnatural framework on the association of citizens who can actually happen on local initiatives or national initiatives and which only happens in relation to this single initiative that has no wider meaning. So it has no broader importance for society, citizens may seek a referendum on some environmental problem in the area of their municipality. Citizens can look for a referendum on exorcism, related to some of the things they want to live in, and you're putting that referendum initiative right now to get all the outlines of organisational actually, political parties. And that's what doesn't make sense and why today, and it's clear to everyone because I'm getting messages, he says, we can't believe that hundreds of laws are waiting, and when they need the law, then everything can be settled with a marathon session. I'm going to beg a vote on this amendment and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133789	Mr. Representative Marko Sladolev, Amendment 559. He's gone. He'll vote. - Mrs. Crescent. Agent Ines, and he's got you. Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133790	It's all right. So here are the two words that appear in the law, and which the secretary of state insists on repeating are transparency and rationalization. When it comes to rationalisation, it should also be said that Croatia is the country with the highest number of politicians paid, 13 400, that it refers to the salaries of politicians to 4.8% of Croatia's GDP. And that we are here at the EU summit. And now a referendum initiative that wants to reduce the number of parliamentary deputies is experiencing such resistance. I don't know, under this new Electoral Law, I haven't done any analysis of the Electoral Law proposed by the People's Reference Initiative, and we're also similar to the law in the parliamentary procedure, whether MOST would have more or less representatives. But to tell you the truth, it doesn't matter at all in that whole story. It is important that citizens are dissatisfied with the electoral law and that they started it. I do not claim that we must be Switzerland, although the president in the election speech said that we will be the richest country in Europe or the world, that we must be Switzerland as regards the standards of the referendum. I'm not saying that we should call a referendum on the smallest details, but on the essentials, I think we do. Reference initiatives reflect dissatisfaction with political elites, and they appear when citizens are dissatisfied and if everything were okay, they would not appear. So, we return power to the hands of the people, we take them away from the political elites, and here, I demand that my amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133791	Thank you. It's real now, ma'am. Agent Ines Strenja. Here you go, 560.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133792	Thank you. So our only intention in the House today is to fight as an opposition for the referendum of citizens and against the increase in the amount that HDZ will have in the next Europarliamentary elections in order to have the most beautiful, most brilliant and qualitative campaign. And the referendum initiatives are important for every country, for every democracy, and so is for this country. Do you know how much the average life span in Croatia is? 3 years shorter than those living in the EU. And we are now extending the time to retire to 67 years, and we are already living shorter than Europeans. So in one parameter we try to get close to them, but we haven't done anything for our citizens, so that their quality of life will be such that, over a certain period of time, it will still reach this life expectancy that the Europeans have, and that's the problem. And instead of spending money on improving the quality of life and extending the life span with all those activities that can enable a better and healthier life that will extend the century, we will shoot that money at political parties, if MOST disagrees and that is why we are fighting. You'll probably, with the help of defectors and all those who give hands to minorities and so on, vote this bill, of course. But someone heard this and someone saw this, judging by how interested they were that after 21 hours we continue to persist and we will persist until all of our 888 amendments are sent, Croatia needs referendum initiatives and we are fighting today. I demand a vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133793	Thank you. Amendment 561, Mr. Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133794	Dear Vice President, therefore this is about the order of both the Croatian Parliament and the entire process means who should be parliamentary, democratic in which MPs should know when they vote, we are announced voting at 12 o'clock, there is nothing from the vote, we do not know at all when we will vote, we do not know whether it will be tonight or tomorrow, we are a respected vice president here in the Croatian Parliament now means about 27 hours, 27 hours, and we are discussing this point somewhere around 21 hours without stopping these amendments. And you can't answer even the simplest question that we ask you, if it isn't the 12th vote now, as we've been announced by the president of the assembly when the vote is. I wasn't expecting it, I was hoping when I saw that you weren't here last night not to play for HDZ, that you wouldn't want to help them fill up their party register, but I have to do what I thought unfortunately to pull because you're still holding the HDZ ladder here in this attempt to increase the amount of money that will be spent in the election promotion. We have strongly opposed it and in a very civilized, reasoned way without any excess, we have not received almost any injuries to the Rules of Procedure throughout the night and day, persistently here we are trying to tell the Croatian public what is going on here, but no one has heard of it, But you're not respected. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Vice President. [[Intruder: Time, time, thank you time.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133795	We move on to Article 78 of the proposal to delete this article will be the first State Secretary, Mrs. Rimac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133796	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs, on behalf of the promoters, for the amendments from regular 562 to 573, the same amendments are not accepted because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, and therefore we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133797	So, thank you, so Amendment 562. The club of the representatives of the independent lists, Mr Panenic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133798	Thank you very much for the clarification to the secretary of state, but it will come to mind, so we have a statement not so demanding but we are tired, we are tired and we are tired and you are tired of last night and we remember that it is repeated, so we are constantly bringing some new moments we are talking about these articles, it is listening to the same answer, and so it goes endlessly, here I do not know why my colleague Grumoja is surprised if someone who is in that joint government supports HDZ. Well, isn't that normal? It is my view that they only do what is their duty, because if HDZ falls, neither do they, therefore there is no debate that must be heard, executed, and there will be peace. Now, as far as the article itself is concerned, we have media advertising services that and those to whom you provide services should be reported. Of course, they'd be very happy to do that if they increase the budget for everyone there's more, a little more paperwork doesn't hurt anyone, from 1.5 million to 4 there'll be room for a lot of them who advertise. But then they're still watching it's not just the ones from the pre-election, there's also those who are fans of what's at the moment and they contribute to this government, and when they get together, I really don't think about PR activity. There's number one. So everything will be covered with posters, lenses in national television, radio media, and I think that's a good plan. It will be very easy to make a media plan when you have money, with 1.5 million to feel closed you can't wave what and then you're afraid what if I don't do it with some gray streams, I think this is good for you, and for our amendment please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133799	Thank you, too. 563rd Mr. Miro Bulj, identical content.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133800	Thank you very much. The MOST representative club has resisted this anti-constitutional, protureferendunal, anti-citizen, exclusively under the HZD law. Huge resistance and we're here as an opposition party basically winners. The president of the assembly said yesterday that the vote will take place today, after the vote, although the agenda has passed, after the vote, that at noon there will be a vote for all the items discussed at 12 o'clock. Now it's 14 and 49, no voting. What does that mean? That MOST is the only and best opposition that we have won all the smiley bellies of Andrej Plenkovic, his friend Tajani, his fascist, his friend, who put my Dalmatia, my Son, in Italy, he is a fascist for me, we have had enough of the occupiers who are afraid to declare an exclusive economic belt to appoint Minister Buric, which is why he has good relations with Alexander Vukic, otherwise the same member of the European People's Army, did not object, but to put out the will of the majority and to strike the Constitution exclusively and only to be a greater amount of funds for HDZ and to be able to bow to the mountains of Tusk, Junker, Tajania, Merkel, to the harm of the Croatian people. Referendum, a referendum is the right that arises from the Constitution, I ask for this vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133801	Thank you. My colleague Grumo, please choose a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133802	Thank you, Your Honor. A series of MPs, not only of the Most, but of the entire opposition required a violation of the Article. 228. because we had announced by you, voting today at 12 o'clock, we didn't get any notice, the vote didn't happen, and we don't even know when the vote was going to be, thus breaking the Rules of Procedure, Honored President, Vice President Radin was confused. He couldn't give us an answer, could you give us [[Intruder: Thank you]] give an answer to what's going on [[Invader: Thank you, colleague Grumoja]] [[I'll give you an answer now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133803	I'm going to give you an answer, and I'm asking you to stop using the Rules of Procedure's injuries because you've repeated one more time and I'm going to give you a warning in the following situations... You've already received an answer from your colleague, Radin, and now I'm going to tell you again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, we'll be working until the end of today and pleading on the amendments, and then there'll be a vote... Depends on when it ends, so the current estimate is about 22 hours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, maybe even in 23, maybe in 24, it depends, depending on how long the amendment debate... [[/Intruder: will there be a vote?]] So, just to tell you something, I respect you, you're, you've decided on one procedural option, you're fighting politically, it's okay with me, but also don't expect us to throw the spear into the thorns because you're going to be exhausted, we're aware that you can do it, you have the right to do it, it's part of a parliamentary struggle and we'll vote when the conditions are met, and that's when the amendments are over, that's it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Also, given everything that's been happening through this time and given one obligation that we have, and then I announce that at the next session, the one that comes, so after this, we're going to go to the adoption of an ethical code to solve all these situations that we have... No, no, all in all, well, there were hard words and accusations, etc. which we will do through the ethical code, but there is no good now, I'm not giving it to anyone, but that's what we're... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, well, that's the obligation that comes to us, you asked for the code of ethics yourself, I now announce to you, so that we will bring an ethical code, why would he threaten? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I said to respect, respect your political struggle, you decided on such a persistent, strong resistance, it's okay, you're right, you have, the procedure allows you to, but the other side will fight politically as you do. Here, I ask you now to move on with your work, you plead the amendments, and everyone else will do the same. Now it's time for my colleague Robert Podolnjak, 564th Amendment, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133804	Mr. President HS, the Honored State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, this law that we are discussing today has been last amended in 2017. in July. So, in this session, we had one small change from several legal articles, and we brought that amendment to the July 7th 2017 session, and then that law was signed by the President of the Republic of Croatia 6 days later, July 13, and the law was published in the printed edition of the National Journal on July 19th, 12 days later, after we voted here on this law. And now I am asked a logical question, what is this all about, why this 30-hour debate, when the president will probably, in order to come to her in a consolidated text after the amendments that some of you have adopted, how she will sign on that law within one day and how it will be sent to the National Journal on the announcement, to get all published on Monday and to come into force, when one small law, this same law, less than two years ago, which had over four articles, and this one has over a hundred, took 12 days from the adoption of the law to the president's signature, therefore, pointed out the declaration of the law until its publication in the National Journal. I wonder if the President of the Republic of Croatia will do the same thing as it was two years ago, or if they will sign this law by express procedure. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133805	The 565th Amendment, MP Hrvoje Runtic, is gone. 566nd colleague Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133806	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, the respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this legislative proposal exudes with care towards actually partocracy, and is quite aggressive towards democracy. I'm going to explain a little bit now, let's say these increased amounts of money that are allowed to be spent in election promotions for individual elections. We know that the PR can do wonders, so it's like makeup, miracles means public opinion can change or affect it so that something that's pretty hated or that's presented or misunderstood in public, so it's possible to change it by certain procedures, so it's embellishing one actually image of a reality and the worse the situation in society, it takes more money to change it. And in this light we see this need to increase the money for promotion because you watch the situation, on the one hand young people leave, the demographic situation is a picture of our country and catastrophic, there is no strategy, any policy that part of here could change something but is passed by these laws, which are in fact anti-demographic in itself because people are very much and are running away. Please make a statement under this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133807	Thank you. 567, MP Ante Pranic, gone, and we will vote. 568, representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133808	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear State Secretarys, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, this amendment says Article 78 is deleted. The proposer considers that the legal text should exclude the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the problem of the referendum. We believe that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should only be given to those political parties who, according to the final results of the elections, have been given seats in the Assembly or the representative body of the units of local self-government, and thus, in principle, are governed by Article 6 of the bill, so we do not accept that money for regular annual funding can be transferred from independent representatives or council members after the election of political parties who have not earned such money on the basis of the election result and there is the possibility of political corruption. I will repeat my thoughts for the 20th time today and today, and that is that the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums falls within the category of electoral laws and, according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, electoral laws should not be passed in the election year. The Constitutional Court also considers that the Croatian Parliament should respect such good parliamentary practice even though it is not normatively prescribed. According to the proposal, this law should enter into force during the implementation of the European Parliament's election of MPs, which is absolutely unacceptable and how the presidential elections with a possible second round are held at the end of the year and it can be in January according to earlier practice, we propose that the law enter into force on 1 February 2020. I request a vote on this amendment and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133809	You got it. Now it's my fellow Petrov, 569th Amendment, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133810	Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. In this bill there are several things that need to be changed, that and the reason why we submitted the amendment. I find it not good in any way to destroy what was created and what was the legacy of democracy, which is a referendum. The referendum is the tool that citizens who live in a country have, it is the most important thing these citizens have for the reason that in these cases they are the last to decide on the most important things and decide on their future. By creating administrative barriers like the report you're saying, you're actually trying in an indirect way to disable the referendum initiatives. On the other hand, the same bill did not include what the EU has recommended for you, for example. It is interesting that some of the things that suit you, you, without any problems, recommend or do not adopt the EU, those that do not respond to you even though you are calling for the EU all the time, do not include. As far as I know, they've recommended months of e-voting. Interestingly, you didn't edit it in any law but you should have arranged it to get a few million kunas more in your party register. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133811	570th Amendment, dear colleague Sonja Cikotic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133812	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state. The proposal for this amendment provides that the proposed article is in fact to be deleted, to be deleted for reasons because we believe that this text should not even be part of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. In fact, that part of the text should be an integral part of the Law on Referendum, which announced by a major reformer that it would soon be available at the E-consultation. I would also like to say that this law no matter how hard you try to say it, the public actually saw it and that's what we've achieved. The public saw that you don't really care about the people, that you don't care about their initiatives, that you take everything out of it so that you can actually suppress the idea of having a referendum initiative through the creation of an additional administration, bureaucracy and additional obstacles or complex processes, and that you don't really allow the development of a people's free thought in the form of a referendum initiative that actually brings citizens together around an initiative that is present, which is actually only one and has no resulting long-term action, but when the referendum takes place and if there is a referendum call once the issue has passed, you don't know for sure the citizen in Pula or the one in Poreč or the one in Slavonia who has signed and actually they don't know each other. What is crucial, these citizens actually only have the same goal, the current goal and have a goal on this issue. Such bans are dangerous because you actually saw through the Rules of Procedure when you limit your speech then you report... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133813	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133814	Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133815	571th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133816	Thank you, Mr. President. So this law sort of regulates donations to political parties, referendum initiatives and, in general, politics. So tomorrow, in principle, at my former school, I'll be holding a 6th jubilee humanitarian action, a big spring cleaning where I and my school parents will be selling goods, toys, books for a single mother who's got cancer. It should also be said that the donations of such a type at school are not regulated at all, that they are on some edge all the time, so volunteers must be legal experts to be within the law. And now we come to the fact that a tycoon donation to political parties is being arranged, and for something like this we haven't regulated legally. The same thing is with the donations of large sales chains to social self-services, the Caritas, and that kind of thing we haven't legally arranged. But we're legally editing one such thing, and I think it's a bad thing, so here in this law it says that a certain natural person can donate more political parties. Well, I guess if you want to donate to someone, you believe in that political party, don't you? So you're not going to donate to HDZ, SDP, the Bridge, so you're not going to donate to one physical person? So there's a lot of illogicality. We think it's not good, and we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133817	572nd Amendment to the Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133818	Thank you. Here we continue with our struggle to let the citizens of Croatia hear why this long debate and why these 888 amendments to the proposed Law on the financing of political parties. Because we've been fighting here since yesterday for the citizens' referendum and against an increase in the amount that will be shot at political parties and their political propaganda. So for those who will ultimately benefit from it, and you are not thinking that this money could be more meaningful for those who need it, and I will tell you what it takes. The health care needs to be resolved, because at this point, we're losing 50 million kunas a month and we could save them. And every month we create new, heavy, 2,000 and 800 medical wages. And what are the reasons why we're losing that money? The poor management structure in the Ministry of Health and the hospital system consisted exclusively of doctors, we have not solved the management that needs to be run by hospitals, the fragmentation of information hospital systems. A unique information hospital system should enable immediate monitoring of waiting lists, performance indicators and quality. There is no single clinical registry according to certain diseases, injuries and health conditions. Non-transparently showing the waiting list. Non-quantification of the number of services, operations of the hospital pharmacy, sister records and personnel records. So we could finance all of this with the money we put into political parties. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133819	573rd Amendment of Agent Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133820	Thank you, Your Honor. I am most pleased to see how unhappy you are about what the Bridge has done here in the Croatian Parliament. You're so unhappy that you've even had to threaten, tell us that we won't be able to do this anymore, that it will be arranged by the ethical code. Yeah, yeah, that's what we said, and we didn't insult anyone. This was a civilized, reasoned debate. No excess was. We didn't get a single breach of the Rules of Procedure, and here we are in the assembly so now somewhere for 28 hours, and we're arguing for sure 22 hours about these amendments. So we didn't insult anyone. We are in favour of passing an ethical code in the Croatian Parliament. But apparently that ethical code will be one of the extra tolls that will try to silence the opposition. The Rules of Procedure have already been amended. The Act of Unauthorized Conduct is announced on the Internet, which is what you intend to censor social networks, and everything under cover of so-called. The fight against "fake news" and now the opposition when the business opposed you without insulting anyone, we presented concrete facts, now you announce that we will no longer be able to do so. But believe me, we'll find ways to fight this, I'd say this regime, which already shows certain segments and signs of authoritarianism, which goes with the police, to journalists who threaten the opposition, which means it behaves in one way that is completely contrary to all democratic standards. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133821	Thank you, comrade Grumoya, so I have no intention of restricting your right to speak. As you can see and I said what to do is absolutely exploiting the procedural possibilities and I congratulate you on that, fight. OK, fight the other side, but I didn't say the ethical code in context to ban anything, but you know that it's also our obligation to have, and to regulate all other topics and never restrict the right to speak. Here are the secretary of state, so let's go to the 574th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, make a statement about it and until 585.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133822	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and parliamentary representatives on behalf of the legislators of this law, I am aware of the amendments of 574.-585. The amendments are not accepted, for the reason that the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law which regulates the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133823	I'd like a statement from the House of Representatives, colleague Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133824	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. In this part of the law, which concerns the regulation of referendums and the financing of referendums, there are so many bad provisions, not only should the law not regulate that area at all, but when the government has already embarked on the normative regulation of this area, there are so many bad provisions that I will probably need an entire set of presentations to explain how bad certain provisions are. For example, the time limit for collecting donations, for financing the referendum activity, in accordance with the provision of the Article. 71st donations, from a referendum, some civil initiatives, can be made, but within 2 hours, be careful. The first deadline is when a jury account is opened, so when a referendum is announced, by the end of the deadline for collecting voter signatures. This is the first deadline then all donors must stop making donations, they must follow precisely what is the date on which the signing of a referendum is completed and then they can re-pay in case the referendum is called upon when the decision speaks from which day it enters into force. Then you can re-donation, pay the jury's bill, referendum and civil initiatives. So, there's no such thing as setting up election campaigns, because it's all within one deadline, which is defined by law and there's no interruptions. What can I tell you, how illogical it is, how inappropriate it is to regulate this issue in such a way in a law that does not belong, so I am asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133825	575th Amendment of Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133826	Thank you very much, here I will also say that I am proud to be with a group of MPs, who have been chosen to represent the people, have resisted this poor anti-constitutional law, which violates the article and the basic provision of the Constitution, i.e.. The basic provisions of Article 1, the first article, that the people, that the power comes from the people to have the right to direct democracy. It's a referendum. The referendum and funding of referendums and political parties is absolutely incompatible, you do not need to combine fire and water. You don't have to handcuff a chicken, you don't have to let a thief guard an ATM or a bank. So that's incompatible, that's two different things, because referendums and citizens' initiatives go with referendum issues, when they're not satisfied with the work of political elites, local parties or. I'm extremely proud to be here, we've been here for 30 hours, and I'm personally and most of my colleagues, constantly, warning of concrete remarks that violate the Constitution and the laws. I would personally say that I'm surprised when the President of the Parliament says, we're going to introduce a code, an ethical code. Yes, there are offended shepherds here, shepherds, here are offended by the entire Cetina region, because of my pronunciation. There was a lot of things here that were offended, but I wasn't afraid even during Sanader, but I love Alku Sinjska, so much more of you coming at her, I'm the only Signan to whom it's forbidden. And we will continue to fight in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and he would suggest to you, that the final diameter of the question of a representative who did not answer, and he said that the minister, who is four months old, is not Answered. [[Intruder President: Thank you.]] Don't protect the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133827	Let's now go to the 576th Amendment, Agent Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133828	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's another pearl from this law. So, the representative of the organisational committee, should close the jury account and return all the funds that are on that jury account, so donated funds for the referendum, 6 months after the signing, after the conclusion of the signing, if the referendum has not been held, 6 months after that. However, to remind you of one example we actually had recently, this last attempt at a referendum on the electoral system, we had to collect signatures in June of last year, so in December there would be 6 months, the referendum was not held and then the organisational board, would have had to shut down the jury account, return all the funds, but I remind you, by then, in December, the Croatian Parliament did not decide whether the fulfilment of the assumptions for holding the referendum was met. So we haven't decided at all until then whether we're going to call a referendum or whether the assumptions aren't fulfilled. And a representative of the organisational board would have to close the jury account and pay back the money. This is an example that shows you the absurdity of the solution that exists in this law. And why is that? Because those roof referendum laws aren't regulated deadlines. When? After the signatures have been collected and within what time are the organisers obliged to deliver the signatures to HS? In what time is HS required to verify the signatures and within what time is HS obliged to decide on the call for a referendum? Therefore, for these reasons, I ask that the amendment I have tabled be voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133829	The 577th Amendment, MP Runtic, is gone and we will vote. 578th Representative Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133830	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So it is clear that this law has been passed in an urgent haste way and that it is actually full of surfaces, full of irregularities and that it is really unusual to see that the representatives of the ministry are not at all jerking at all these, I think, well-intentioned and professional warnings. Because the referendum is indeed a desirable expression, so the democratic contact of the people with the political system, it's not like some common political action, so you're after all intending to put this civic political action, in fact, it's about civil initiatives for referendums, to put into this law. I can't be surprised. Clearly, it can be wrong, and when a man, seriously confronts the facts, when he learns about mistakes, then it is reasonable to consider, see how to get out, admit it or not admit it, anyway, but do not do something not to go the wrong way. And in this way, we will have a law that is full of strange solutions, which are here, we heard from Professor Dolnjak, will very easily result in some strange stalemate positions, indecisions. And I think we've had enough of that in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm going to beg a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133831	In 579, there is no representative of Pranic. We'll vote. 580, also representing Ninčević-Lesandric. 581st Representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133832	Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. The referendum is the most important expression of the people's will. Expressing views on the most important issues for the country. What you do in your bill, let them write reports, and then the administrative barriers will do theirs, and people will give up the referendum initiatives. You're creating additional opportunities to entangle people also through this law, then all that I've said before is a little bit of salt with a few million kunas, so you're making yourself a party account. In the end, explain all of this once to the well-being and well-being and stability. One said, the more corrupt the country is, the more law. But the measure of man is measured by what he does with power. And you've been measuring yourself for 28 hours. You are not giving up, and this whole law that you are trying to push through unfortunately, there is absolutely no point of contact with any group in Croatian society. And I'm going to count again, none of this is going to profit from either family or youth or entrepreneurs or farmers or pensioners, just you. And you haven't given up in 28 hours, but I'm glad the Croats are clear today. what's been going on for the last 24 hours. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133833	Thank you. 582. Amendment, representative Sonja Cikotic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133834	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state. This amendment is actually aimed at eradicating the article since the same text should be an integral part of the referendum law. What's important is to point out that it comes from the Ministry of Administration and that the ministry has so many actually benefits that could be achieved by entrepreneurs, citizens and everyone else, and you've caught up with this law and you've caught it right now, to bring it over your knees, and what's important is to stress that you're suppressing the path to actually referencing initiatives because in an unadjusted place in a law where it shouldn't stand, you're putting in a way that should finance referendum initiatives and equate them with political pauses. What's important to point out is that when you defend actually our amendments that you've refused, you're saying transparency, rationalization, and that's what it says in the assessment of the state of this final bill. I must tell you that the only thing that is transparent and rational and that is clear to every citizen of Croatia today is that we have marathon sessions because you would have the financing of the electoral promotion in the EU parliament before the EU elections are called and not in the amount of a million and a half kuna but 4 million kuna, unfortunately, that citizens through screens, social media, through youtube channels can watch all of this. To watch, in fact, without you giving up in your intention in the sense that you never did, you actually showed up because other debates were not easy for some.../incomprehensible/... please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133835	583rd Amendment, Mr. Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133836	Thank you, Mr. President, rationalization, transparency. So there is no greater rationalisation for all election processes and those local and parliamentary and europarliamentary and presidential than electronic voting. All analyses show that electronic voting, so it might cost at first a certain amount of money for digital reasons, but this one, but it would cost the entire election process throughout the process. So, and that's not to be introduced. The referendum initiative was prevented from bringing. Then you have in this bill that units of local self-government are up to 3,000 people to also raise the amount for a promotional campaign, so you have a unit of local self-government where only politicians are employed, so these are not 20, 30 houses, and I don't see why there's even a need for a promotional campaign when all houses can be visited within one day and talk to these people face-to-face. So, I think this legislative proposal is not good, that it will further raise the political elite to pedestal, that citizens are very unhappy with politicians, here's just an example of the City of Zagreb that has 218 local committees and 17 urban districts where these people who get paid actually don't decide anything, where the City of Zagreb pays school boards and therefore it's a political caste that is not to be cast and we're going to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133837	584th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133838	I thank you, so my amendment you have written you will refuse it, but I would tell you why we have reacted to this adoption of an ethical code. Ethic codes are probably now and in the assembly by the noble Lovro Kuščević, which is an ethical code with a strange sentence, which is that signatories should refrain from publicly delivering unverified information. I must inform you that we had a heated session at the Primorje-goranski County Assembly where it is quite clear and that is what HDZ members fought against Komadina and SDP because it is a restriction on freedom of speech. Of course, since the same texts are also in HDZ-led counties, of course our intention is our fear that you will try to get through the same thing here. As we will talk here about corruption in Croatia if we have to provide only accurate information, you always have the information you receive and, of course, it is up to the competent institutions to verify them. It's about the unverified information that we've received, we don't have the opportunity to verify them, but there's false information that's obviously wrong, and they need to be banned from being represented by a parliamentary representative, or being insulted, or being false. And that's why we're very concerned about what this ethical code of yours will look like, and it would be good for him to be prepared and not have such formulas in him that simply shuts up his mouth and prohibits freedom of speech. I demand a vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133839	585th Amendment of Agent Nikola Grmoy, please. You're my friend Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133840	Your Honor, here I am in a meeting yesterday from 9:30 I defended several MOST laws, held a break at 1 o'clock, and then this statement on amendments that have been going on since yesterday from 15 o'clock. So, it's clear that we're tired, but we don't intend to turn ourselves in, this kind of resistance hasn't been seen in the Croatian Parliament for so long, it's never been this long, there's been one angry night here, but then there's another Rules of Procedure who's been constantly calling for breaks, and the whole opposition has been involved in it, there's the Most's people alone here, something this morning a little pause that could've helped our colleagues out of the opposition, but we've already been awake so long that we're just about to get out of our strength, but we won't, we won't stop warning about your intention, and that's before the president makes the election to increase the money, the amount of money you're going to spend in the election promotion and what I're saying all night, if you see so much determination to get through the laws that goes in favor of our citizens, when we see this kind of determination. in the adoption of the Implementing Law, the removal of FINA and public notebooks from the procedure of enforcement, in judicial reform, in public administration reform, then this Croatia would certainly not be more comfortable for our lives if young people went to other countries in Germany, Ireland and would not happen to us. An exodus of the population. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133841	586th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, so please the Secretary of State from 586 to 597 to declare itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133842	I thank the President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs, on the issue of the Amendment from 586 to 597, the amendments are not accepted with reason because the referendum is the form of political action by citizens. We therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum in the same way as the law establishing the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133843	Thank you. Here you go, pal Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133844	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, for your clarification. But just when we talk about financial reports, I would agree with the President of the Parliament, the perfect place to apply the ethical code. The most sensitive place is always what happens to finance. So, how are we going to apply to the user, maybe we should step it up more? But then we have to be more ready for ourselves to apply it the same way. Because if it is, so first is receiving gifts, it does not receive gifts big small, 500 kuna, less than 500 kuna, more than 500 kuna. It should be trust means trust to create in this environment so that not all of them are thieves. Because if we consider them all thieves, then we turn them into hostages of the administration. Then for every detail they deliver some paper to make sure it's all safe, and then we see that those papers don't work either. We are finally, and there has been trust in the arrival of parliamentary representatives in this esteemed house, so there is no representative at the end, but only those who walk with such a full heart are punished, all others are justified. So, if we start with ethics, then really here in this home, the president should do a lot of things without having to touch even the financials. But here, if we're talking, it means financial things that are even more sensitive to those who control and with it is a matter of ethics. So it's multiple times that we can say it complex and it's not just that simple to write here we're going to pick up those reports, control it, then we see that there are different interpretations. They're usually right, everyone, in the end, if someone ends up on some application and they're in court and they're able to banalize it. In a few years, it's all gone while we wait for it to be so, it's the only result that we've prevented one referendum initiative from happening in the beginning. Well, here, I suggest we vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133845	Thank you. 587th Amendment by MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133846	Thank you very much. I will repeat by not knowing which time that simply referendum and promotion of referendums, financial reports or political parties in promotions simply cannot go into the same basket. It's mixed apples and pears because it's water and fire I said it. The people have collected 400 signatures for a referendum on amendments to the electoral law based on the Constitution that the article gives because the people have exercised power by electing their representatives, this is this high home. And the people, of course, have the right to make direct decisions. So the people when the citizens' initiative collects signatures means they're not satisfied with the political elites and they can't go into the same basket because the protureferendum... It's the government because it's always against the referendum. [[You don't understand.]] It should not be against the referendum or use resources against the referendum. She should be neutral. But no one counts. Thus, this law is set against the basis of Article 1 in the basic provisions. What would I like to say again? Well, it's a pleasure to meet you. We can see that the distinguished Mrs. Josepha Rimac is forgiven. Say hello to the minister. Tell him he made a discrimination that women had to defend. If he turned out to be a coward, tell Lovre Kuštević that he should have defended this law. We see on Facebook that he's throwing down the bridges, but maybe we just surprised him. We did it anyway. After all, we are homogeneous and yet we are the only opposition that has shaked you very hard. You've executed yourself. You promised, that's what you'd say, in public in the cameras, you said there'd be a 12 o'clock vote. You can see they're moving. Yes, you did. And I see that you and... Other... [[You don't understand.]] I'm laughing at those... [[You don't understand.]] It's a European Parliament. [[You don't understand.]] But I'm asking because of them I'm asking for a vote... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133847	Thank you. Thank you. I didn't say there was going to be a 12 o'clock vote. You can check the Parliament Service logs. So we're going to the 588th Amendment by Agent Robert Podolnjak. He's gone. So we're going to 589. He's not here either. We're going to the 590s, you're a colleague of Dobrović's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133848	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, I mentioned that this law actually nurtures partytocracy, and it also tramples the referendum as a tool for democratic expression of the people, so I would explain this first. In fact, there are a number of provisions that put big parties in a very privileged position. Let's say the mandatory funding of members of city councils for units of local self-government, then in the case of crossing independent politicians, then the parties acquire the right to their chieftains, so on their political capital, which is thus earned by their election result, etc. This together creates a strong impression that there is a political system, a political establishment that is generally responsible for this difficult state of the state, a difficult state of our Croatia, and which, of course, seeks to embellish the increasing amounts of funds for promotion, or for piar. Of course, however, for many young citizens who are in the tension of family forces, it is not enough for them, or it is transparent for them. So they're happy to leave the country and I'm going to beg for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133849	591. Ante Pranic, he's gone. 592th Amendment of MP Ninčević Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133850	I thank President HS. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, this amendment says it is. 81. deletes because the proposal considers that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. The proposer also believes that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should only be given to those political parties who, according to the final results of the elections, have received a representative seat in HS or the representative body of the unit of local self-government, and so is the principled art. It's the sixth proposal of the law. Therefore, we do not accept that money for regular annual funding can be transferred from independent representatives or councilors after the election to political parties who have not earned this money on the basis of the election result, and there is also the possibility of political corruption. I will now repeat what I have already repeated 20 times at the end of each of the amendments, which is that the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums falls within the category of election laws, and according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the electoral law should not be passed in the election year. The Constitutional Court also considers that HS should respect such good parliamentary practice even though it is not normatively prescribed. As the presidential elections take place at the end of the year, we propose the entry into force of the law on 1 February 2020. I request a vote on this amendment And thank you. [[Intruder: Now it's time...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133851	...respective colleague Petrov, 593rd Amendment, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133852	The esteemed chairman, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs, gives the referendum the possibility that each person can express his view on the most important issues for his country. Also, referendum initiatives are important as a mechanism because they force the ruling to explain their views and their decisions and therefore act as a control mechanism. The referendum is the gain of democracy and respect for citizens. The referendum is also important because with this tool it is the last word for citizens. The referendum also limits the state's strength over society and at times when politics threaten society, it is possible to stop. When all this is stated, that I will repeat it again, I don't know why you're suffocating the referendum? Why do you not support the will of the people? What's the problem? I know it's not the only problem, the only bad point of this bill, but I think it's, I'd dare say, the most important thing. The referendum should be made possible by citizens, no one has sown until dawn, and everything you change today, because you think you'll be easier to rule, you'll end up having it on your head and on those who caused it. The Croatian silence before, it got to their heads. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133853	594. Amendment by Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133854	Dear President HS, dear secretary of state, I am sorry that the minister did not find it appropriate to actually come here for two days we are actually talking about this law on which we have submitted 888 amendments because the law is extremely bad, it is bad because at the very beginning of the referendum initiatives, in fact, they are being suppressed or imposed on them such a legal framework for funding that it is simply for groups of citizens who are organised on a particular referendum initiative that is impossible to respect. What I would like to say further, this amendment is meant to actually be, alone, the text of the article is actually deleted because this text, according to what I have tabled the amendment, is not the subject of this law, this text should be the subject of the referendum law, and for that very reason, because this is actually breaking through slaughter, this is actually one thing that should have a little different view of the old one, because the confidence of citizens in institutions is not built in a way to disable them in something because citizens will always find a way, but it is not good long-term for society and the state itself. What I'm saying is that 78% of citizens actually consider this very law and this is the way HS works now, they observe and think, so is it really possible that there are MPs who are properly defending the amendments and haven't, therefore, slept over yesterday since 6 o'clock, is it really possible that such a pace of working HS is possible for us to practice, there's democracy. About this amendment that I asked to be deleted I'm asking you to vote on the same vote. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133855	595th Representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133856	Thank you, Mr. President. So, the recommendation of the Venice Commission that the electoral laws, therefore, that the election laws are not changed in the year of the election and that recommendation seems logical to me. This recommendation actually opens up the possibility of a fair play game among political actors in some way. I'd like to compare it to football, imagine that in the prime minister's 5-car league before the end of the championship, the Croatian Football Federation decides to change the rules of the game and decides that instead of 3 clubs fall out of 5 clubs. So it's the same thing. So the rules of the game don't change the moment the political game is played. These are logical things, but here I am saying what is symptomatic of this government, so to listen to the recommendations of the European directives, to the case of recommendations from Brussels bureaucrats, and when something is for democracy then you do not listen to the recommendations of committees that are good for Croatia. I would also like to say that if this law is passed, and we will see if there will be enough MPs to vote for it, that I consider it a knife in the back of Croatian democracy. However, there is another worse thing, if a proposal appears in the media that I believe is author Vladimir Seks that a relative electoral winner gets a gratis mandate, I believe it is a death for democracy in Croatia. This is a knife in the back for democracy, and this is going to be death, and we want to warn you about it, and I demand that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133857	596th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133858	I thank you, as I have already said on several occasions, there is no point in further increasing funds to political parties, there is no point in spending money on what is actually possible to use for a better quality of life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And the reason why this law is passed is to shoot down extra money so that you can achieve the best result so far in European elections. It wasn't our intention to obstruct the law, but it's completely illogical all of this you wrote because the way you put this law together is primarily choking every referendum initiative. And I have already talked about this, primarily before us is a referendum initiative on the extension of the working age for citizens to 67 years, which we want to compare and move forward with the EU, and we forget that the average of life in Croatia is 77.9 years and 3 years, respectively, shorter than the average of EU citizens. When we compare this with the information that the vast majority of companies in Scandinavian countries are going to and on a four-day working week, it is clear that we will use our citizens until 67 years where they will practically go from the workplace to the cemetery. And we don't think we're the money you'd give the political parties could give to improve [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the quality of life of these citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133859	597th Amendment of Agent Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133860	Thank you, President, I think it would be my turn to call because there was no free speech at least a break of 15, 20 minutes means we're from 9 and 30 here in the assembly so people can go at least to eat something, I think it's okay for professional services and people who work here, working here, I think it would be a turn if you decided to vote the law, you'll definitely vote it out, whether it's in the wrong 19, at 20 or 21 hours it's less important, but I don't think it'd be right for everyone who works here, and also for us MPs because the other MPs don't have to vote, or out of the lines of opposition, and we're here for about 28 hours or I don't know how much, but mostly we can explain these amendments, we don't think only if someone gets sick or comes out of the lines of opposition, but we don't intend to admit it't want to give you a lot, so much money, so we don't need to pay. in this intention. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133861	We are going to the 598th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, I would ask the Secretary of State to show about this amendment and the amendments up to number 609.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133862	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and also welcome you as well as all MPs and MPs, so the amendments under regular number 598 to 609 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133863	Thank you. On behalf of the MOST Club, a respected representative, Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133864	Thank you very much, Vice President, here I welcome you here to join us, we have extensions like this, the Secretary of State has taken over, it's the new chairman of that, but it looks like we're the only ones who stay here and try and do the same thing, but we can't get rid of any more of the finances you want for yourself, we can't solve the referendum that you want to prevent in every way possible. In any circumstances of political parties, individuals, some lists I would perfectly agree with what it says here. Let us not exploit resources that could affect us as politicians in general, as well as the electoral body. But when we have an initiative that's clearly crystallised, which came from a large group of people who support 400 thousand people, then we really get to it, do we have to look at every kuna, every lime. Or we think that all of this came from support I don't know, some people who are in state-owned companies in the leading places, whether that's maybe exactly what they often quote from the Church, whether it's some anonymous groups that want evil to our country. I'm afraid we're going to find very few reasons for this, but when we look at the initiatives that were, they were all on the trail to protect actually very traditional RH values or to make responsible decisions about the future of our entire country. So this is another one in a series of amendments that we suggest that it be abolished and we ask that it be voted on as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133865	599th Amendment, representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133866	Once again I say yes, and I will repeat always, that this law is counter-constitutional, that the simple referendum is incompatible, the funding of the referendum reporting is financially incompatible with the political parties i.e. by promoting political states. That's two different things. Here the initiatives came about to raise certain issues that would be addressed by a referendum, and the dissatisfaction with the political elite, however, the fact that I, again, will be proud of what we have pointed out, we the representatives of the Most, this happened for the first time. I personally and entered politics because of this kind of thing, when political elites were doing turbulence, I was a long-time activist in a number of civic actions and meant activists, and I was even a coordinator, but this is not what I would have been collecting the referendum initiatives that have been in recent years, except for this last one. Therefore, I know what work it is, which is an effort, but it hurts me more now when I look, after all calls from the president of the Republic of Croatia, who could stop this law, which is only in the interest of HDZ, is not the law of microsolars, which we list, nor helps workers or traffic infrastructure or promised projects, but simply suits HDZ only to have in the campaign from a million and a half to 4 million, which means 2.5 million kuna more and that it is done, such as the respected secretary, which was during the elections, that the village is visited by village, behind every beech being one minister, the lambs are roasted, thus obtaining elections, which is not fair. This referendum doesn't help anyone, not a worker, not a farmer, not a heavy one. except HDZ, and that's why I'm asking for a vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133867	The 600th Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133868	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. You've heard a good part of our debate, the Secretary of State, and he's never had a chance. But so many times we've repeated those key systemic errors in this law and all its provisions. One of the main meetings of our reputation in the international community, in the Council of Europe, in which we have recently chaired, which we propose candidates for the secretary-general and international organisation, which is particularly concerned about democracy and the rule of law and human rules, and which has adopted a number of very important codes that we should follow when it comes to electoral legislation and referendums. But one of the most important recommendations is that electoral legislation is not changed in the year when elections are held. So that's some minimum standard that should be held by democratic states. Members of the Council of Europe, do not change election laws in the year when elections are held. And we, not to do that, change it in the election year, we change it the day before the election. Because this law belongs to the category of electoral legislation, even in its own name there are words of electoral promiscation. And that's just unforgivable, but all we're saying is, I don't know how many hours I've been alone, actually walking through one ear and coming out through another ear, Proposer. So I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133869	The 601st amendment of the respected representative Hrvoje Runtic. He's gone. 602nd Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133870	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, we also heard that during the first reading, many of these remarks were made, submitted, warned, however, there was no real reaction, so it is indeed surprising because Parliament is perceived as one body that it brings, but also serves as a corrective body and where many of the remarks that go for the law to be corrected can be heard. Correct in its implementing sense, to correct any indetermination or any irregularities, so that it is truly surprising that this situation where the law is constantly going to be passed in this form and with these solutions presented. So, here, I'm connecting it really to a young generation that only one can get out of Croatia because let's look at statistics, let's look at demographic projections, and they're all very bad, and I think we're facing a very fast demographic crash. And such a solution and such ignoring these questions certainly helps to further accelerate the problem. So we know that our demographic strategy as such doesn't exist. However, it can hardly exist with such electoral solutions, so with this attitude to the referendum because many people are looking for a solution on the other side of the border.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133871	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133872	I'm looking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133873	The Honorable representative Ante Pranjic, who submitted the 603rd amendment, is not here, so 604. Representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133874	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In this amendment, this amendment says Article 80 is deleted. The proposer considers that the legal text should leave out the part relating to the financing of the referendum and that this part of the law should be an integral part of the basic legal text governing the issue of the referendum. It also considers that the right to regular annual funding from the budget should only be given to those political parties who, according to the final results of the elections, have been given a seat in the Assembly or representative body of the unit of local self-government, and so is the principle and order of Article 6. A bill of law. Therefore, we do not accept that money for regular annual funding can be transferred from independent representatives or councilors after the election to political parties who did not earn that money on the basis of the election result without saying that there is a possibility of political corruption. I have already repeated several times, and in each report on amendments, I will do so once again, which is that the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions and referendums falls within the category of election laws, and according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the electoral law should not be passed in the election year. The Croatian Constitutional Court also agrees that the Croatian Parliament should respect such good parliamentary practice even though it is not normatively prescribed. We therefore propose that the law enter into force on 1 February 2020. I demand a vote on this amendment and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133875	The 605th Amendment of the Honorable Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133876	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. As long as I get the chance, I'm gonna do it again today. This battle of ours today lasts for only one reason, the law you propose is not good, nor is it the correct way you try to do it. And I should especially point out that this law whose debate in continuity has been going on for 30 hours does not benefit anyone in Croatia but only one political party. 30 hours in continuity fighting to get a couple of million kunas, 30 hours. I told you yesterday you'll sweat for them. You will only sweat for one reason, it is not correct for citizens who expect us to fight for their interests, not for some particular or political interests. I believe that absolutely every citizen in Croatia today, when he looks at this, can only feel shame. You've had 30 hours to talk about 100 laws in the procedure of the current surrenders each of which could bring at least something more to them. You chose 30 hours to try in any way to force us to get a few million kunas. 30 hours, good for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133877	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133878	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133879	The 606th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133880	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. I asked through this amendment in fact to delete the text of the law since I believe that the same text should have been in the referendum law, since it is intended to be passed or in a few days will be in public consultation according to the Minister of Resolution. What I'm saying is that it surprises me, and I'm actually glad, I'm glad you're persistent. Because if you weren't so persistent, you wouldn't actually see how barbaric you are by this law, how much you really care that this law is passed, even if you had to gather most of it in the middle of the night, and that's one message. It is one message to all Croatian citizens that you are actually looking for allies in papers, looking for allies in legislative norms, in regulations looking for allies, and you do not need citizens. You've been estranged from the citizens, and that's normal and clear when 78% of citizens think that actually this government is going in the wrong direction. Today we are all seen by all portals and the topic is precisely this law and citizens comment. Is it possible that because of two and a half million kunas, we have marathon sessions? I don't know, I was still young, whether it was just like this marathon session when it was actually the establishment of a Croatian state, whether it was so important and so important then, maybe it was. Certainly, I am saddened that Minister Resorni sent the secretary of state and two state secretaries and did not come to defend this law, and I request a vote on that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133881	607th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the Venice Commission recommends, therefore, recommending that electoral laws and laws regarding promotions are not worked in the year of elections. So it's a perfectly logical fact because, for example, In the middle of the championship, they don't change football rules. So this is one political game where it should be that all actors start at equal, so rules, so equal opportunities, and this law of sports jargon is not fair play. However, one interesting thing, in the Croatian Football Federation, even this happened to change in the middle of the season the way that will turn out, who will, therefore, go to Europe, so it is not a specificity for us. However, I want to emphasise something else, so this law is definitely if a knife is voted in the back of Croatian democracy and there is one much more dangerous thing, and it is a law that will bring even more mandates to the relative electoral winner. We will fight against both this law and against all of this, therefore, by the democratic means that we can, therefore, consider this to be our job, I've received a lot of messages from people that we actually, I don't know, some superhumans that we can endure so much, I'm a teacher who spent 4 days on a senior without a single hour of sleep, I think I'm too well paid for this job and I don't see any here here, asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133883	Amendment of the 608th Representative of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133884	I thank my fellow classmate, I can also say that as you see MOSTs do not give up, we have not given up all these four years to fight for a better, fairer Republic and we continue to continue with all these 888 amendments to fight for some better Law on the financing of political parties because it is actually the only purpose of what we are, to work, but not to be overpaid, to work and to be proud of those who have chosen us, not to choke the referendum initiatives because, as you know, this is the highest expression of democracy in every country. The Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums falls within the category of electoral laws, and according to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, electoral laws should not be passed in the election year, and you want the law already to apply when the president should discuss European elections on Monday. For this reason, once again I call on her to do so today, we call on her all day, she needs to know what her responsibility is, whether she is elected president of all Croatian citizens or elected president of the HDZ, we know who made her president possible, but after that she is the president of all Croatian citizens, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not want to do so in large amounts, in such large amounts, to finance political activities, especially HDZ, be assured that you will not be rewarded in elections, citizens see it and hear it. Therefore, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia also considers that HS should respect such good parliamentary practice even though it is not normatively prescribed, therefore, that no laws relating to the elections are passed in the election year. Requesting vote [[Intruder: Search]] [[Intruder: vote]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133885	609th Amendment of Agent Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133886	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Strenja, it is clear which here is the intention of the beginning, it is clear that they want to push through this law to provide themselves with additional campaign funds, but they intended for tough nuts, such resistance was never provided in HS, there was a situation that the SDP's representatives had sent a whole series of amendments, but very quickly they would have given up, however, MOST's are made up of different materials, no one expected, meaning that 29, 30 hours we'll say well, colleague Petrov, because at 9:30 we came here yesterday to the assembly to continue standing here and to resist this HDZ self-will that wishes to get their hands on the money and only their money is important, but also wants to disable, so the citizens' statement at the referendum. I see that there is a colleague, Miro Kovac, who has been acting as some sort of opponent to Andrej Plenkovic, but without a problem, he will stand on the list that Andrej Plenkovic will make for the European elections, and then this money that we have here, means, which he will vote here, means, an increase of these funds, it will also benefit him for the campaign, and let's remember, colleague Bulj, that Kovač pushed through the Marrakek Agreement without debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy and how he did everything he had to do for Andrej Plenkovic and will now be rewarded for these tasks, a place on the list for the European Parliament I'm looking for a vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133887	610th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, here are 11 identical amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, Amendment 610 to 621 is not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133889	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133890	Thank you very much, here's a little bit to continue on these cheerleaders actually the topics one person on the HDZ list has a problem now huge, on the other hand here you have support on our side for a fellow blacksmith which I think is a constructive we're going to do something and make that list have a outline that people who want to do that and be there in Brussels. So I personally know my colleague Kovac, and he wouldn't mind being our representative in Brussels. But we go back to this, so no, there are no opponents, there are all for Croatia, if we were here with bill proposals all for Croatia then it would only be a job. But let's go back, it's a sign of the very name of this article's ban on guessing. I think that given that we have three lines of what is said very little, we should say more about it, but I'm afraid if we were to ask people on the street that then a ban would be one topic, we would write books here, we probably wouldn't discuss it like this from yesterday to today, but we would discuss the whole mandate as to how it pleases and I'm afraid we wouldn't even be able to agree on such a bad bill, because we wouldn't be able to write all the forms of convenience we have in Croatia. But here I see that the topic is hot, the colleagues are going to probably take the discussions that are the forms, and I wanted to maybe open up the debate there, but I'm afraid it'll end up being clarified by the secretary of state, and we can only expect that when there's a vote on this, we might get another addition. So then we're going to see how these counterservices would actually be done, the benefits of personal benefit as defined, because here we in MOST don't have that experience, so we need to hear from more experienced and I'll ask for a vote yes. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133891	611th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133892	So here in this tone, I will immediately repeat and always repeat that I am proud of my colleagues from the Most Club who for the first time have shown resistance, perhaps in this way in the history of the Croatian Parliament, to bad legal initiatives that are only in favour of HDZ and of course I have mentioned today several times a proverb that is mentioned in my area "the one who wounded you with bread, call it a chat". Our people feed on bread, we are the only ones responsible to the people, and of course if Miro Kovac has done Marrakesh for Andrej Plenkovic he will call him a jacko he will put him on the list. Now it's a representative body that shouldn't behave like that, so if he's on the list he'll get a favor regardless of the opposite current. So that's what the problem is about, and what's the difference between MOST as the only quality opposition that's constructively fighting this harmful law that sticks a knife to the heart of the referendum initiatives, and we know that this undertaker, the minister who tried to come here, Mr. Secretary of Licko-Senj County, is to come to the minister at least to address it. I know you've had a down campaign, that you've been visited, that you've been dancing a patriotic car, but what you're going to do is empty those ends, you know what the effects are. You know why? The basic and foundation of everything is democracy, the most people go away young because there is no democracy, the basic condition for the director of the Krka National Park was the party card that the two HNS and HDZ experienced, and the doctor of science, which was 2 years in the Homeland War on the front line of the front line, was not accepted. Acujale Two Cards HNS, HDZ is exactly the same.../incomprehensible... electoral body. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133893	612th Amendment of the Honored Representative Robert the Downworlder. [[Intruder: I demand a vote mandatory by this.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133894	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will give you another example of how wrong this is that they are doing by ruling. According to the same recommendation of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, the reference legislation should not be amended when a referendum initiative is launched. Which makes perfect sense. So, when you have a particular initiative that has already been launched, then you can't, like your colleague Sladolev said, change the rules of the game in walking. What we have in particular today, you have a referendum initiative launched by the trade unions, which was launched on the day when the decision of the organisational committee was announced to approach the voter's statement on the referendum on amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. And that decision by the organisation committee's voters appeared to me on Monday in a daily list, and a referendum initiative was launched. However, the law that you propose and which you want to vote and to take effect immediately will in fact, in your opinion, refer to the already launched referendum initiative, where you introduce a number of rules of funding for a referendum campaign, a number of obligations of the organisational committee that already exists, the initiative has been launched. And you haven't actually passed the law yet, you haven't passed it, you haven't published it, it hasn't entered into force, and the initiative has been launched, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment that was tabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133895	613th Amendment of MP Hrvoje Runtic, he is not here. Representative Slaven Dobrović gave the 614th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133896	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that this law is not in favour of the referendum to see it as a threat, that this is all in the atmosphere of the recent counting of valid or invalid votes, a declaration of failure therefore by two referendum initiatives which the government has clearly recognised as some kind of threat especially in an initiative concerning the Election Law. So it is quite public until the election law is changed, until it becomes likable, until it becomes acceptable, clear to young generations who will significantly increase their participation in the electoral processes that we see that the continued years are getting lower and lower, which means that the election result is becoming less and less relevant to the real desire and will of the citizens, so the Republic of Croatia will not be progressing. So it is unfortunate that an opportunity is being used for this law which actually has a major task to deal with political parties, their funding, their promotions, and that part of the referendum story has been inserted there. At the same time, another law is announced because this other law would cover both the problem and the issue of the anti-initiative, or the association of citizens who consider such a citizens' initiative...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133897	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133898	Unacceptable. I'm gonna ask for a vote? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133899	The 615th amendment was given by MP Ante Pranjic. He's gone. 616th representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. She's gone. 617th Representative God Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133900	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I can't accept a bill like this because it's bad at a lot of things. I've pointed out several times, and I'm going to point out again, you're suffocating the referendum initiatives with this law. With this approval of funding, you create corrupt mechanisms in politics, make it possible to entangle, disable the mayors and mayors that they can make in their local self-governments and their councilors decisions like those they don't want to possibly receive a council fee. And that's what you hung up on. I just can't accept a bill like this. Most of all, I can't accept that you've been fighting for this bill for more than 30 hours just to do one more thing, which is 2, 3, 4 million kunas for your party's register so you can make it easier to justify your sponsors. It is hard for me to accept it and I believe that absolutely no one in Croatia today can read or an article about what's been going on for the last 30 hours won't accept it. You've had countless other opportunities. You've had almost 100 bill proposals that are now in the process of helping these very people. So let's say that quite a number of them even gave you a vote in the previous parliamentary elections. They're not you, I'm sure I've voiced that for 30 hours in continuity, you're discussing a law that will only help you and no one else in Croatia, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133901	618th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133902	The President-in-Office, the amendment proposed actually proposes to delete the article in the sense that this part of the law should be an integral part of the referendum law. As we know, the Law on Referendum according to the Secretary-General should be passed soon. He's going to public counseling. I don't see the need to pass this law this way at all. You know me when I usually come home to my kid asking me what I was doing and I tell him that either we were discussing some law, or some law was passed if it was something close to him in some way to him, but today I really don't know what you're going to tell your kids when you say what you're doing today. 30 hours you organized the work of the Croatian Parliament in a way that your colleagues whom you should respect and respect their time and their person as the integrity of their person you left without a single break that you can actually go home and that they can eat a warm meal in peace for an hour, that they can take meaning that they can take a shower. And is that the parliamentary democracy? And is this how it is discussed in a free democratic Croatia in this high house? So I don't know her. Maybe it is. It may all be normal, but it will be judged by Croatian citizens, those citizens who say that 78% of them say that this government is going in the wrong direction. If you had stood up for any other legal regulation so barbarous and not to let go, you would have come first and shook your hand, because even after my term as an advisor or a state official, I had neatly handed over everything I did to the Secretary of State. Because I worked for the interests of Croatia. I demand a vote on this amendment and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133903	619th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So Croatia is a country with 14 thousand almost politicians and they have managed this country for 25 years. So Croatia is a country with very weak economic growth, a country left by hundreds and hundreds of thousands of young people, and obviously something is wrong with that. And then there are referendum initiatives that want to change the situation, they think the country's not going in the right direction, I'm not saying that they might be 100% right, but they appear as a side product of the bad policy that ruled. And then we have the asphyxiation, therefore, of democracy and the splendor of the partycracies, where we actually have the expression of the political elite that is ruling through the interest groups. And then again we have in this legislative proposal, so donations, so, individuals who can donate more parties and repeat old mistakes, we haven't learned from those mistakes when Ivica Todorovic financed the parties that were in power, which suit him, and now we have the same situation. So, we want it to change, we want it to be transparently addressed to Croatian money and to the money of the Republic of Croatia, we want to discuss the referendum, discuss democracy, and we will also ask to vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133905	620th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133906	So why is MOST with 888 amendments persistent in hearing at least this way, to hear what we have to say to them, we are persistent because it is obvious that we are the only one in HS fighting for a referendum statement of citizens and against increasing the amount of HDZ to have a beautiful, meaningful, grand promotion in the battle for mandates and seats in the European Parliament. So, perhaps you should say that our intention was not to obstruct the law as such, the law should be passed, but it should also be your intention that, with the proposals of the articles you have amended, you do not ruin the law that should only have been done. And in some ways you show just how transparent the reason was, which is that you want to regulate the promotion and financing of political parties, and the real reason was actually an additional 2.5 million kuna, so HDZ has a full, clean 4 million kuna, and it's probably going to be from black funds, which we already know in which way is very often funded and more, so that legally 2.5 million kuna you get and with 4 million make such a nice election campaign, but the people see it, the people hear it, the people hear us, the people send us here. 30 hours of texting, we'll make it tonight... [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133907	621st Amendment of the Honorable Representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133908	Dear Vice President, is it okay for your colleagues, MPs, if you didn't approve a half-hour break in order to, therefore, get some rest, eat something, or if possible, means that at least women in our club go to freshen up a little bit at home, whether it's normal vice president, you're changing there, where your colleagues from HDZ are, there's one, there wasn't one, there wasn't anyone there all night, and you're changing yourself, you're there for two hours, and you're changing, and we're not people, because, therefore, it's in your interest to get through this law as soon as possible, before the president calls the elections and that's your relationship with your colleagues here at HS. Yesterday from 9.30 we're here at HS, so it's 30 hours full, now it's gonna be at 15 hours 24 hours after we discuss these amendments, 24 full hours without stopping, and you can't call a half hour break at least and that's the relationship and so treat your colleagues in HS. To treat or treat the Croatian people better, to those whom we all need to serve, who chose us here. It's clear what you're doing, so it's just in your interest to deepen your party register, have no cheeks or look me in the eye, but look at the sidelines as I speak to you and have reason to be ashamed and have reason to be ashamed and look away because this is a shame what you do, this is a shame what you do, you are ashamed of both you and President Gordan Jandroković, not a funny colleague Reiner, women sitting there 24 hours, not funny fellow Reiner [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]] I'm looking for a vote. [[Agreement: Do you want a vote or not?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133909	622nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133910	My colleagues, I'm proud of you, especially [[/Intruder: What's wrong with you?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133911	First of all, the secretary of state goes first, I think you could have taught the Rules of Procedure so much in all those hours, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, amendments 622 to 633 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is a political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133913	On behalf of the club, however, respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133914	I'll apologize to my colleague Bulju for going in like this now, but he'll probably have something to add to his presentation when he defends his amendment. But here, it's kind of convenient to connect here, it's about this amendment of conclusions that my colleagues before me, colleague Bozo Petrov, have said that he is unacceptable to this content of the document, colleague Nikola Grumoja, is unacceptable to people as it comes out, and that's probably how he sees not only us colleagues, but rather those who do not rule, have subjects, what, and colleague Sonja is likely to bring her and her children, and that would be perfectly clear to them, so it's clear to us with this kind of document, the money will vaporize. Also, the referendum will disappear somewhere in the clouds of legal provisions, and to these business books that should show how something is done, I'm afraid we won't make it. Very often these books get such black covers, so somewhere they're hiding and they're constantly looking for where that black book is going, but here, unfortunately, sometimes it could come to that book and find out, so, at some point what happened, it's all in some electronic records, it's modernized and the team that works like that, so I'm afraid that, just the business books will remain for those who would do the referendums, try to organize themselves, create some attitude of the people and transfer it to and those that political structures to translate it to make it better for all of us. This is how we're going to call for digitization, so it looks like it's going to go into some cloud, that Cloud, and then who knows where it's going to go? When it's over, God forbid, maybe we'll look in Africa. But here it is, until it's not So much so we can vote more on it. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133915	623rd Amendment of Representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133916	Thank you very much. Here I am now going to take the opportunity to once again, first of all thank my colleagues for showing resistance and giving essentially an indication to the people to resist these harmful laws that are being passed in parliament. Always against the man, always against the individual. Always against nature and the environment, always against the interest of energy Croatia, always against the interest of fishermen, workers, farmers. Only in the interest of HDZ. And you, Vice President Reiner, are laughing at it, as your colleague Grumoja says, so here are parliamentary MPs, I especially thank them, who are still Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, sitting here to defend what the people have chosen for, and you do not want to say here, we will give a break and let my colleagues go, no, you will not. And this morning you're holding a prayer breakfast. You're voting for Istanbul. You just, I can't understand your principles, I can't understand the principles of life. And because of people like you, I got into politics. Here. You're just one of the examples that got me into politics. The exclusive listeners with high titles with which you must be proud, of course, who, by their silence and obedience as an academic community, have brought academic high-school citizens to the Republic of Croatia where they are. So look, please, if you as vice president had said, so come on, Minister Kustević, come here, I think the rebellion is in Parliament, you betrayed the people who collected 400,000 signatures, so where are you, Minister Kustević? Well, mostly because of you, yes. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133917	624th Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133918	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Why, for so many hours, we have fought against the adoption of this law and because of its provisions and because of the procedure and entry into force. Why we care so much about protecting the direct right of citizens and their initiatives to decide on certain issues in the referendum. Our political system is blocked. Every possible reform has been blocked. We have seen a blocked reform of the electoral system that would give citizens far more significant opportunities to influence the choice of those who will represent them in HS. It is blocked here in HS because our law stands for a year and a half on the agenda, the citizens' referendum initiative has been blocked and this has been done in cooperation with the Government and the Parliament and the Constitutional Court. And what else do we have left now? To preserve this little space that still exists for the referendum initiatives, and we see that one just now launched to reject pension reform, and therefore we are struggling not to make the conditions for any referendum initiative any more difficult, and these proposed law on funding imposes very strict conditions and sanctions on all referendum citizens' initiatives in their referendum campaign, when it comes to bookkeeping, on donations, on reporting, on sanctions for any non-compliance with laws that are not proportionate to civil initiatives. I'm asking for a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133919	625th Amendment of MP Hrvoje Runtic, gone. 626th Representative Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133920	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, here is the most disturbing attitude towards the referendum, a referendum that is actually one guarantee of the quality of every democratic system. That the referendum allows, that it is simple, that it is available, that conditions and requirements are not proposed and that definitely always brings fruit because, is it not good to know what citizens think? What are their views on certain important issues? I think it's really okay. Why should politicians take responsibility for something they don't have to, because I can simply ask the people. Of course, it's not just a national referendum, least of all. He can be a local, regional character. However, something that should be facilitated and made possible. But the referendum was obviously so frozen by this government over the past year that they had done it post-traumatically and placed it in this law and defined it as any such, it is the political action of the citizens that has no bearing on any other political action and imposed a whole series of conditions, please the silence of colleagues, conditions, requirements which, of course, make it so difficult for this important quality of the democratic system... I'm looking for a vote. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133921	627th Amendment of Representative Ante Pranjic. He's gone. 628th Representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. She's gone. 629th Representative, God of Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133922	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to single out the moment since you have been very hasty and worked very hard to secure money for the election campaign, how come it has not occurred to you for months to implement the European Commission's EU elections proposal? You have made an extremely fast decision and you are breaking over your knees when it comes to your interest when you need money to clean up your sponsorship funds, and when something by the European Commission you swear to all the time and every law we propose, you say – in, you need first to coordinate and see if it is consistent with other members of the European Union - when this same European Union makes you a recommendation that does not suit you can stand for months and years on the side. So, the European Union has given you a recommendation for e-voting and, behold, miracles, you don't even mention it. You are changing laws concerning election campaigns allegedly to boost transparency, to improve stability. So where do you want more transparency than e-voting? Don't be hypocritical. If one thing you deny and don't want to hear about it, then withdraw this proposal. I ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133923	630th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133924	The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Secretary of State. In fact, this amendment is aimed at eradicating the article provided for by this law for the reasons why this content would be more relevant to the content of the referendum law, and in fact it would be one way to open the public debate and to see exactly this new institute to be introduced, which is pro-tureendum initiatives and in a way to ensure the same institutes for referendum initiatives and pro-tureendum initiatives. In fact, we have a very good argument and we know in fact how the people must participate in the creation of society. He has to participate. It must have a ticket to participate and create democratic processes, to create development. The fact that when it comes to e-consultation and a certain ministry gets countless comments like it was in the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, then it breaks down at the time of the football euphoria in July 2018 and actually more in primary and secondary schools we do not ask that employees have a job experience in retirement, but we are looking for work experience that means that we have demoted one value. That means we went two steps back. It was also when it was enough before that the teaching council in elementary school, or the teaching council, to confirm if the child was left behind for legitimate reasons due to some disease, and then we put only the minister and the amendments refuse to do so, and then it doesn't make sense. If we have the fact that 154 thousand people have moved out of continental Croatia and the representatives of the Mosta propose construction material to donate and it is rejected, then... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133925	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133926	I'm looking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133927	631th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So often in this Croatian high school, I receive high school students because it is my link to some way of former occupation and we talk about the Electoral Law. I often ask them how many of them would participate in the elections if they were two years from now if they could vote. I have to say, there's always a few of them that raise their hands. What is their most common reason for giving up therefore both the electoral process and the struggle for their country? They're all about the same. We showed today that that's not true. So, not because we debated here for more than 30 hours in high school, but because we represented their interests, the interests of young people. The electronic vote would therefore improve the turnout of young people to the elections, but very well it is well known but very well statisticalally known that they are neither HDZ voters nor SDP, this does not mean that they may be voters nor MOST, but turnout would increase, therefore, the share of young people in politics. Of course, young people are most interested in managing their own, therefore, lives. I'll just mention an independent list of young people from Brezovica who went under the Most that won 10% and changed their neighborhood, so it can change, so it can change the situation, and here we are offering it here. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133929	632nd Amendment to the Ines Strenja Council of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133930	On many occasions, I said that this law would further provide 3 times as much funds to political parties, and that it is something that is not good, which will not be well accepted by the citizens of the Republic, and it will not return to you in the elections as much as you buy the beautiful, biggest and most beautiful jumbo posters with these funds and put them in the most attractive place. But what they would appreciate is to solve a problem that is present in many segments of our society, so let's start with the homeless. Have you ever heard of the Croatian homeless network? They are volunteers who are most often in very modest conditions, in some of the places they are given, inadequate, concerned, under the motto “no one hungry, no one without a roof over their head and no one without support ” and are trying to provide in these humble conditions very poor, desperate people sleeping on the road. Do you know that these winters, already several winters in a row, in Croatian cities, this team that barely has gas, sought, and also in Rijeka and in port warehouses, homeless people who sleep on some charts trying to find them before they freeze. The Croatian homeless network is also operating at national and international level, but is not financed mostly by this country, from this country. This network has been established to improve the care of homeless people and other socially excluded groups by providing support and assistance to organisations dealing with the problem of homelessness, raising awareness and the level of public information. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] That's right, they deserve money, not political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133931	633rd Amendment of Agent Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133932	Dear Vice President, you have decided, you have a party task and you will faithfully execute it, as you have faithfully voted on the Istanbul Convention, even though you represent yourselves as a knight of the Jerusalem tomb, so faith will now push this debate until this law is passed, until all these amendments are passed and it is passed. There's no big difference whether the law will be passed at 8:00, at 21, at 22, but you don't want to approve at all any break for the MPs here who are exactly 30 hours now in the assembly and, so, which is almost without any time, that there wasn't a Vice President Brkic here at HS who approved for the second half of the game one break, and that was still, about 10 hours from then, not one break, means, except for these 10 minutes, but by the time we get down to the club, we have to get back here, that's how your relationship with us as with your colleagues shows that you care only about a party bag, up to 30 pieces of silver, you're ready to issue anything and we know who's been the most valuable for 30 pieces, and that's your behavior. So all the time you've been acting that way, and it's embarrassing, so again you, laugh at your colleague Reiner, that's just, that's very funny, you'll have a little bit of an idea about your actions, the way you behave here in HS, but well, we'll No matter what, I'm looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133933	The 634th amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, the amendments under the regular no. 634 to 645 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133935	On behalf of the representative of the Most, the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133936	Thank you very much. The same target, the same distance, means, one good text, is the answer to all the questions, it's like those magical ones, those drugs for all cures, and for this, whatever the question is, is problematic, in fact, the same answer, and in the translation I would say no, we're stuck about not going, we're opening a window, but actually on the window is still standing a chain that you can't break, so this surveillance by estimating the State Election Commission, estimating also the State Audit, I would like to warn everyone that the delivery of the documents is certainly one of the most demanding parts that are expected of any initiative and many independent lists that handing over their reports, now they've been teaching it to March 1st, we're meeting with these problems, a lot of paperwork, it's actually a lot of bureaucracy, some and unnecessary, so to be in some way to be digitized, all of which we have to be able to make sure that the money with the money, because we get it's the money, which we's the money, which we can' so we can' so we can're not, we can't be able to get the money, I'm going to beg a vote on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133937	635th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133938	No matter what I say, here's the political party will get for 2/3 more funding, there will be the most award-winning Milan Bandic, which, of course, is his prize from HDZ, not only for the pokemons he collects, but also for one of the main sponsors of the party of Chetnik Alexander Vukic, that is Palme, it has been rewarded by HDZ, of course, that the tribune is an exhibition for Minister Buric in the European Union, the triba for Andrej Plenkovic because they are the same political group in the European Parliament. But now that I'm thinking, when I turn to my end, according to the person where the secretary comes from, empty space, no cattle, good Senj, let's watch out for the shadowy hands, and Lika-Senj County, they call for Dr Tudjman, people convince that Dr Tudjman is still alive, and when he hears and sees how you behave, he probably turns in his grave every second. You have thus disappointed me, not only as a parliamentary representative, but as an elite for a different opinion. What am I saying that for? So what is there from this law of the Dalmatian Zagora and Lyco? She had when she was a mountain-mounted area, undeveloped, nothing, a pamphlet. What did you have on shipbuilding? Why didn't you talk about shipbuilding when you were in 2013. The state audit said the money wasn't spent transparently, so why didn't you discuss it like this? Only when it comes to your bag, when you want to take away the right of the people to decide, is that's all you do. Against the interests of the people. And this law is against the interest of the people as all you bring, the only one that Juncker, Tusk and Tajani sign, that, that... Laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm looking for the laws just for the pinching of Juncker Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133939	Are you asking for a vote? 636, Agent Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133940	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. If, in spite of all this, this Law is published in the National Journal with Monday's date and to come into force next Tuesday, in parallel with the decision to open elections for members of the European Parliament, I here publicly from the Croatian Parliament's pay phone, I call on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to, on its own initiative, take the decision to launch an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law, and to take the decision that this, all of the provisions and the whole of the Law, be abolished. For reasons contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because it will enter into force, not eight days after its publication, but the day after the publication without particularly justified reasons, by taking effect in parallel with the vote for members of the European Parliament, which will be applied in addition to the elections that have been called at the same time, without respect for good parliamentary practice not to be discussed, that the law is not adopted in the year when elections are held, and does not apply to these elections, and because there are already referendum initiatives in the course of which this Law is clearly proposed, it should apply. I appeal to the Constitutional Court, if they care about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, they must make that decision if this Law enters into force and applies to these upcoming elections for the European Parliament. Please vote, I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133941	637th Amendment of MP Hrvojo Runtic, is not here, 638th Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133942	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we have heard so many criticisms, but no, it's not conjecture, so these are really concrete objections that could and should have been respected and changed. And it's actually a little bit and clear now why there's no minister here, who's behind it all, so the minister who sent two state secretaries here this night, then showed up, uh, and you, the secretary of state, but he himself didn't deserve to come here to this high house, and hear, this one, maybe give a little more explanation, and in a significantly better way, this, take into account what we're talking about. And it's really a sad one really, that won't fix all the PR effort, because people see it, especially young people see it, they feel it a mile away, so you don't have to be surprised at the projections of demographics that are all steep, downhill, so these projections have become part of a state strategy, so you already have a few documents that show up simply, the scenario, the difference in how quickly we're going to disappear, it's all in harmony, so, and with this I'm looking for a disputed law. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133943	639th Amendment of Representative Ante Pranic, gone. The 640th representative, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is gone. 641st Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133944	I'm standing here, respected Vice President HS, and I'm gonna stay here, but I can see there's no HDZ representative, and this is still their law, interesting. The bill you don't intend to change, you're literally rejecting all the amendments, so I really hope that when you get out on the street, when people ask you what you've been doing, so why didn't you accept it, so did MOST really have all the wrong amendments? Can you explain to us what that MOST was doing wrong? You want an answer? Secretary of State, will you have an answer for what we did wrong after 30 hours? Do you read the portals, do you listen to the news? Because it's not just about us 10, 12, it's about you all over the Republic today, you're gonna have to explain to her, you know, those three or four million kunas you've secured yourself, it's gonna take a lot more to make up for what you've lost by your own fault, because you've been fighting for your own pocket, and people haven't chosen you for it, you've lost it. I will never in any way try to exploit the suffering of other people or the misfortune of other people whether they are in politics or not, no matter what happens to your stranger or to some members, but this is a shame, I will condemn this because this is your action, intentional action. Of course. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133945	642. Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133946	Dear Vice-President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, here we are in the afternoon, but there is no major reformer, it must be on its way to its home and that through WhatsApp it solves issues such as the Chief of State already said when he said that actually if Minister Kuščević doesn't contact you, it's on social networks, meaning that if he doesn't contact you, it's going to be on WhatsApp and solve some problems, so that Marina, the Chief of Puspas, he says Lovre needs us, it looks like we're going to be out of class at the clesar school, can you handle that? Then he tells them the same thing, we have building permits, can you decide to actually approve the funding. Lovre, we need a minister of the economy, if you can solve a meeting, you need to sign certain papers. And the next day he says he's coming in from the Ministry of Science and Education to approve the cleaver school, to get rid of building permits, to approve funding, to be admitted to ministerial cabinets at 6:00 p.m., and you know what it is? The Republic of Croatia is the Republic of all of us, not the Republic of the individual chiefs, individual ministers. I want all young people and all the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia to have the right to an opportunity, and you and through this law steal their opportunity to direct democracy because you prescribe something more complex, more lasting, you prescribe something to make it difficult for them, but people always find their way just like water, slowly, but they will find a way, I am convinced. And on this amendment I have submitted, I ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133947	643th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladoliev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133948	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Secretary won't show up at HS, if he will, maybe for the last 15 minutes. He didn't even show up when a colleague of Bulj, a colleague of Nikola Grmoy and a colleague of Podolnjak went to pick up so-called. Incorrect signatures, therefore, he has sent again women to defend him and I don't know, in his apartment he's designing a new facebook status with a picture of a broken bridge, that's his range of political confrontation with political opponents, so putting pictures of a broken bridge. But I want to say something else, so MOST is to the ministry, the same ministry, which he, therefore, holds the presidency, left an action plan for the reform of local self-government, which, of course, stands, so these money has not been used, and has not been used for two reasons, for incompetence and because the reform of local self-government would reduce the HDZ voting body and it is all true by its work in that ministry. What was the most and the most disappointing of the people, even those who chose him although he did not get many votes, was that the apriors before the referendum initiatives were against them, being appointed as a political actor of protureferendum initiatives, and no one supervised him and his pyr as he ruled it. So we, I want you to vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133949	The 644th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133950	Dear Vice President, here he is and after 30 hours MOST's men stand firm in their positions, it is that we want to show to the entire Republic of Croatia that there is someone who is fighting for the citizens you want to take this law and three times as much money for the political parties you want, about our colleague from the far south, strengthening fresh power, we can do another 30 hours. So you want to take the right of the citizens of Croatia to a referendum statement, the greatest democratic right that can be consumed by a citizen of every modern democratic country. And you who boast as well as those who are at the head of your party with pro-European style and aspirations, you want to put out referendum initiatives by means of a bill that makes it completely difficult to organise a referendum. And all we asked was to write a quality, brand-new law on only a referendum. And as you can see, the citizens actually see and you see that we are strong and the citizens see that there are no more representatives in this House than MOSTs. And I suggest they imagine when one day they think about who was fighting for their interests, who came and came in three times to fight and not stop. Everyone will remember those 12 people standing here, they didn't sell themselves and they wouldn't let Karamark re-shape and over-shape like we fought all night for Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This is just the first one in a series of our nights we'll wake up in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133951	Would you like a vote? 645th Amendment of Agent Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133952	Dear Vice President, we ask no more of you or any rest, we want to torture you to the end, we want you to work hard and sweat each and every one of these 2.5 million you get for European elections, and you've worked hard. You were supposed to come here at the Croatian Parliament at 3 o'clock tonight, now you're sitting there for two or three hours, there's no one to replace you, that's how much you care about you as an academic, an elderly man, so everyone left you, left you, and you as a faithful party soldier defend the party's bag and the party register. We also have a replacement here, we're ready to meet you, just if you are, [[We've got a replacement, here's the vice president can.]] When your HDZ people don't think of you, we think of you as a respected, respected vice president. [[Oh, thank you.]] So it is clear what your intention is to get as much money as possible for the election promotion and also to disable the referendum. You wouldn't argue here for hours if it were mountain-mounted areas, you wouldn't be here for 30 hours to discuss assisted areas, you wouldn't be discussing blocked 30 hours, you wouldn't be discussing our entrepreneurs, you wouldn't be discussing our fishermen, you wouldn't be discussing our workers, you wouldn't be discussing the declaration of an exclusive economic belt because you can't be discussing it because Mr. Tajani, who was in your campaign, has banned you from discussing the announcement of an exclusive economic belt here, but when it comes to your bag, when it comes to silversmiths. I'm looking for a vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133953	646. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendments under regular number 646 to 657 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133955	Dear fellow Panenic on behalf of... A representative of the Most. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133956	Thank you very much. But here's what I'd like to add to my colleague's bush, so it's not the Secretary of State that's interesting and interesting that we have a replacement for Reiner, so we've found a replacement for you, too, so don't be afraid, there's a whole government. But what I would have actually come back to our colleague Bačić's statement, we haven't seen him today, but he's very well aware of it, so he's commented on us all, I've written a lot here, I've gone to such cartoons, but I can see that it's accumulated. So today's your last time for people to pass this law. And that's why we suffer them. If they'd told us it was the last deadline, then they'd probably have considered it, and they wouldn't have tried to change something like this at the last minute, but they would have said what we should have talked about a month ago, but here we didn't know, I apologize on behalf of my colleagues, colleagues and colleagues here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133957	You can still stop You still have a chance to stop. [[/Invader Panenić: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133958	Yeah, mostly, what we've made to just meet you is actually a play, it's officially called a plaything and what we're saying is that it's going to fill the HDZ bag, that's one statement says the flossula and the other is that it's a stupid thesis. Here, here we are somewhere, so we should put ourselves into our future amendments just like that. And 4 million kuna really isn't HDZ's fault, it's SDP's idea. And I'm sorry that there's no colleague from the SDP because if it was their idea then we really have one problem, what we've long established both HDZ and SDP is the same, but here's the chance and to check, they'd probably know better to say. What is the conclusion of Bačić's colleague and what we need to take into account, so actually nothing changes, everything remains as before, absolutely nothing changes, I don't know why we're dramating about those couple million when it's absolutely no difference. But here, let's put it to a vote, that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133959	647th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133960	The only respected Mr. Reiner, a knight of Jerusalem's grave, some say from an Istanbul grave. The only thing you want here in this law is to fill your bag and now you're fed up with it came here from Lic-Sen County Secretary. There were more recently ministers from the government, the president of a 200-seat assembly entered the parliament, went down, the poor around her hungry, killed those lambs, sheep, swept down a genocide behind every beech, that's funny to you. Do you then know what you have made of that end, and do you know why the people were bleeding down below? Do you know of the Dalmatian Zagora? So you make fun of us, a meeting of the Government in Split, you mock, so you mock the people and you laugh, welcome the biggest coward in Croatian history of Lovre Kuščević, greet him with the praise of Jesus. He adheres to the principle as well as a knight of Jerusalem's slave, some say they now call him from Istanbul, so I don't know exactly what the name is right now. So that's where Prime Minister Plenkovic said he would solve the problem of Dalmatinka's 10 million kuna workers who worked night shifts, who were squirming in debt, had no discipline, that the state would give up those funds. Do you think she gave up? It's not. But you see the debate about the bag from HDZ, you're gravediggers, gravers of the referendum, gravers of this Constitution, and of Shakespeare's Rules of Procedure, you're shutting down the press, you're pushing them out of work, HRT's office to the press, you're ashamed of yourself. Is your shame at all how you behave, look at the council of knights more than that the knights of the tomb of Jerusalem or of Istanbul. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133961	648th Amendment of Agent Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133962	I thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, so here is my colleague, Miro Bulj, also mentioned how the election promotion recently took place in the elections in Ličko-Senj County and how the entire government actually sat there in that election promotion, but here is a legal provision for how they govern it and how they actually enable themselves to do what they do. You have in Article 37 that, for the purposes of election promotion, it is prohibited to use office rooms, official vehicles, office equipment of state bodies other than those subject to special rules on protected persons. So there's the Prime Minister, there's ministers they're allowed to use, they're allowed to use all of it, official vehicles, and they're in accordance with the law, and here's how you're actually proposing to legalize it, they're okay with it, they're allowed to do everything. They can really cruise all over Croatia in official vehicles and thus use state property for party purposes using the legal formulation that they are protected persons and that they can do so. You see how far that law goes, and they say they're making the best, most transparent law. So is it fair that members of the government can use state property, official cars to visit places and cities throughout Croatia for election promotion, which is undoubtedly happening in Lika-Senj County and that it is in accordance with the law. I demand a vote on the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133963	649th Amendment of MP Hrvoje Runtic, he is not here. 650th Representative Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133964	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice-President of the Assembly and esteemed secretaries and respected colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that unfortunately our minister, or the entire government, is experiencing a referendum as a major threat and that this law immediately served as a way of dealing with the referendum as a possible problem. It doesn't matter what else there is a question of protourendum initiatives, it will already be resolved when it is resolved if it is resolved. The fact that Croatia is affected by significantly bigger problems, the more the Croatian population disappears, not only because the birth rate is smaller than the mortality, so the natural growth of the population is smaller and the growing difference is greater, but even worse than that of the entire family, so young people are very often educated people with families that grow up, with children they go across the border and as educated people see that there will be much easier to get basic conditions for life, so work, perspective, growth, family, school, kindergarten, everything. And that's one disaster nobody here thinks about. However, this law provides expendable amounts for promotion, guaranteed amounts for political work in local self-government units, etc. So it's actually one senseless political behavior. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133965	651st Amendment of Representative Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133966	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, for 24 hours, I have been following a careful debate in this assembly about a law called the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, and instead of discussing 20 to stop the debate, or to discuss what we should have discussed next week, you keep parliamentary representatives there for 24 hours, and you hold only because next week there is an election opening for the EU Parliament and these are the last hours when you should adopt this law that raises the censorship to four million kuna of electoral activity, for the election promotion allowed. More than that, this Law brings up another harrassor for units of local regional self-government, and it is obviously that decentralisation, functional, which everyone mentions in Croatia, where something new is imposed on cities and municipalities, is actually imposed on residents of these cities and municipalities, because instead of the extra funds being financed in children, preschool systems, everything else, you impose a minimum which units of local self-government or representative bodies should be paid to the central political parties located in Zagreb. If we have a censorship, an additional robbery, it's one system of withdrawal money, because we all know who's going to do the marketing for four million kunas, who's going to print posters, who's going to do a lot of publications, the PR services sure, those firms that favor the ruling foreigners. All taxpayers' money through this one legal system of the law will go to gray zones, and instead of having a reduction in censorship, we still say we're doing well, because...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133967	Are you asking for a vote? Comrade Pranic, are you asking for a vote or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133968	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133969	Okay. The 652. amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is gone. 653rd Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133970	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Some may say out loud, some may not say out loud, but the same thing they think, the bill that we got on the bench is disastrous, in much to be changed. Unfortunately, the political will is missing, because it ruled out the political opportunism of individuals led by the current ruling parties, so that we will have the suffocating of referendum initiatives, the increase of the party's cash register, the additional integration into the public sector, the centralisation of decisions regarding the local level rather than decentralisation, all contained in this law that you are trying to forcely push through the last 31-32 hours. Unfortunately, I would really like it and it's not flossula, I wish I was, and I wouldn't mind sitting here for 32 hours and discussing a law that will help people, because it's my duty, because it's my responsibility, because it's my job, but I feel really bad because I spent 32 hours trying to stop you from taking political and financial advantage of yourself, because we need to think on behalf of you, because you're just looking at yourself, and you're not looking at people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133971	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133972	Of course I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133973	The 654th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133974	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here, you have foreseen certain mechanisms in which the political action of parties acting on local and regional self-government should be financed, and if I were certain to ask any of these existing parliamentary representatives, some would say okay, five thousand kuna a year, probably a colleague of Pranic would tell the aunts in kindergarten, per child, Miro Bulj would say for sure about the workers, Minister, former Minister Panenić, he would say we need a stronger economy, we need entrepreneurial zones, we need actually one quality economic policies, Ines Strenja would say our health care, primary health care, inaccessible parts of Croatia, Marko, a colleague of Sladoljev would say you know have small salaries, and fellow Nikola Grmoja would say you know I am a teacher too, and today the children, 25% of them, the schools in Croatia, the rural, heated parts of Croatia, and he would say something that the teachers would have not really been able to stay in the local months, so much longer than the local, so that the locality of the locality, so that the locality of the locality would be important, so in the locality of the locality, so that the locality of the locality, and the locality, so we would be the right of the locality of the law. And that's why I'm glad to be part of this team, although here everyone else would invest, but we're simply on the same side as the benefits and quality of life of citizens. Thank you. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133975	655th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133976	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I have to comment, therefore, on what happens at least has nothing to do with the amendment, but here, Mr. Miro Kovac will enter the annals of political inreality, I don't know if I can take advantage of any worse word, so he has commented on these amendments, and he said so what you would like, we need to get more money from the state budget and start looking back at parliamentary representatives, that we in the Croatian Parliament are actually very badly teamed here, that our poor working conditions, and he doesn't really know what law this applies to, so this is not the Law on the financing of parliamentary representatives, but political promotions. I must also remember, and yet it has to do with this Law when MOST proposed the amendment to abolish 15 million kuna political parties and assign Croatian science, that I remember as a young representative who had just arrived at the Parliament, that I had an attack from Mr Saucha who was then in the SDP and who was very aggressively performing and said that we were one of the poorest parliaments, that he had nowhere to put his laptop, which I only mentioned to the Croatian hospitals and nurses in what conditions they were working on, Croatian teachers who had one computer in the chamber and had to wait for a printer. And then I reminded him, so did you Mr. Saucha ever go to the Assembly Library, do you know that you have a computer there, that you have a printer there, that you have all the conditions to work there? So this is one boast of both political elites that are totally disproportionate to the reality in which the Croatian people live. So here they are just more shown up in these statements and we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133977	656. Amendment of the Ines Strenja MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133978	You know what you said to your colleague, so you know what they hold most against Milanovic? They resent all the strong hands he has brought to the Assembly and who have now fled to the other side and are holding most of the HDZ. And of course they're the same. Well colleague, colleague Maras took advantage of even this day and instead of giving support when we weren't here tonight on duty and fighting which one was... I'm sorry, who said that we could better propose amendments to this law that was passed, etc., and actually instead of giving us advice, he could have helped us with some 800 amendments and perhaps even more because they still have some parliamentary representatives still more than MOST. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, what we heard was blasphemous. that Mr. Kovac has said, and that we should have less money from the budget. [[Intruder Rainer: Triple.]] But he also argued with a journalist on the same show and said that the session's transmissions should not be public. Of course, you can't hear this, but the citizens who have no more transmission, the citizens are watching and sending us messages, looking over the people.hr, they want to hear what we have to say to them, and what we're saying to them is 32 hours and we're not going to let it go below what they're doing to Croatian citizens, they're taking away money, they're raising money, and then they're giving that kind of money to political parties, political elites, we're not part of that political elite, we're still thinking it's too much to pay, we're going to cut income, we're going to have to pay, This is how much to increase the amounts for political parties. [[Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] Yeah, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133979	The 657th Amendment of the Representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133980	Your Honor, Vice President. This freedom we have would not give for anything in the world, there is no money for which I would give this freedom that I have. Because out of pure freedom, I stand here defending these amendments and you are standing and sitting because you must because you have been ordered to do so because you need to fill the party's election bag for the European Parliament. I wouldn't give this freedom to anyone, and I wouldn't give this club to anyone, a club that's been supported here more than 30 hours together, bravely, to stand to the end, to stand up to you if we didn't even manage to make it impossible for you to increase the amount you're going to spend on a European election campaign, to at least torture you. You easily came to Croatian citizens' money, you dragged your hand into their pocket which through taxes, which through criminal affairs, there was no one to prevent you, there was no effective or fair judiciary, but now that you want to put your hand in the pocket of Croatian citizens, your hand in the state budget here prevented you from Most. We may not stop you again, but we will make it very difficult for you to do so. For that reason, I am proud of my colleagues and this freedom we manifest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133981	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133982	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133983	658th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So change under rb. 658 to 669 are not accepted. For the reason that the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133985	On behalf of the club, the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133986	Here, thank you very much, what we stayed really surprised now that this isn't accepted, we expected at least at the end because after this secretary of state to come to the criminal, in fact the provisions on that one, we don't have yet, we don't see ourselves there means we don't see ourselves at all that it might hit us anywhere but you'll probably find a way and for us to apply something from that and this was the last part of the eight in which we have three amendments and we're trying to try to solve it here and then maybe retroactively come back but here's just not going to go, I have to say that we're going to have to have a chance, we're going to ask for a break but we can't ask for any more because we're looking for a deal here, so don't be angry if we't get a little bit out of a vote because we didn't expect that we't have a result just like this to be that nothing to admit anything anymore. But here I'll just take the opportunity to correct my colleague Ines, we're not just representatives of MOST, we have Mr. Reiner, he's from the ruling option here, therefore, we need to reflect that we have meaning here and who we are constructively talking to if we should expect the ministry to be a mediator, so he'll offer some solutions that we don't have to compete here who has more hands, because unfortunately we can hardly win in that battle, and now that we see that the SDP is the worst idea of HDZ then it's clear that we'll stay here in the sandwich, we'll probably be against these solutions which are at the expense of those who would take action for the referendum, but now we'll probably have the opportunity to correct the whole law, so here's how we resisted, we recommend for your actions, and now we'll ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133987	659th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133988	He says, well, when we talk about this main referendum that came from the Constitution, the right to decide.../incomprehensible/... the people has, so I remember my activists since 2007, I've had an independent list of those times so that before that I was an activist, I was with the workers of the Dalmatian woman, numerous criminal applications, the workers of Auto Transport, the environmental protests, they shut down the birthplace in Sinj during the Adriatic Kosor, so I had to protest, so I had petitions, but it comes.../incomprehensible/... no matter where the Alkars had been born, so they were under the pressure that I had to stop it. And so all the time, in all the referendum initiatives, I've been coordinator, I've been through everything, and I've known everything. I've got criminal charges for being on the sidelines of workers, men in these fights to protect the environment from throwing industrial waste and waste, so Mladneo and the team would raise billions and throw along the Cetina River. We see here today is water, we see what they're doing to us with these dumps in Lečevica, Marinšina, in Lečevica heart of Zagora Dalmatian, we see what they've done to us from the river Cetina's largest drinking pool of water on the river Cetina and Lake Peruci, we see what they're doing to us from the Dalmatian mountain, so I have a number of, just now, my colleague Chikotic said what I would say to the workers' river, so she always led me to the urge for love after her end, for her homeland, for her homeland, for her homeland. And here, the most important thing is to fill the bag with HDZ for the European elections, which is the most important thing, is to pass the Marrakech agreement that Miro Kovac pushed Andrea Plenkovic through and he will be on the list now. I'm gonna do it one more time, whoever's going to hurt you with a crown, call him a jackrabbit. Our people are wounded and we answer to the people, and Miro Kovac, of course, if he will put it on Andrej Plenkovic's list. Of course, because of the EU list of HDZ. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133989	660th Representative Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133990	I thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, we do not already know how many hours we have been fighting here, above all for respecting the Constitution, for respecting international standards of rule of law, for protecting democracy, for respecting good parliamentary practice, for respecting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, for respecting the rights of our citizens who want a referendum initiative that can be used as a legitimate means of achieving their interests. And in the protection of all those subjects who will be subject to this law and of course against all these bad provisions that we've been talking about for more than 30 hours. That this law provides for no limitation of political funding, that it also allows legal persons of millions to donate to different political parties, to oblige local budgets already adopted to provide money to political parties and independent council members in accordance with this law, to provide donations that can be made to both natural and legal persons for regular annual financing and for electoral promotion without any roofing restriction on these donations, so it is really possible for legal entities to donate to millions of kunas to political parties or other entities during one calendar year and there is no limit And that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133991	Here's the 661th amendment of MP Hrvoje Runtic, he's gone. 662. Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133992	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly and the Honored Secretary of State, the politician should actually serve the people, but of course the people feel that way, and when it's something else. Here in this law, everything is full of provisions that actually create a completely different picture of politicians because they prescribe various financial obligations of the local community towards political parties where donations are made, I'm not saying that donations should not be, but it only cares about how to feed in fact the political caste. And the concern about the people being able to express their will, so the political will is clear that the political outcome should be in the people, there is no or no difficulty here, is being suppressed, it is being problemed here in various ways and puts into the same basket as fellow Bull says, fire and water or fox and chicken, because there really is these symbols and connections. In fact, this is the direct political will of the people through self-organised civil initiatives that are very difficult to compare with political parties, and here they are very easy to compare and put into the same basket. Of course. to beg [[Intruder: Search...]] [[Intruder:...voting]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133993	663rd Amendment of Representative Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133994	Thank you, Vice-President, Your Honor, I really don't know why the intensity of this law is to raise censorship for the election promotion for the European campaign from 1.5 million kuna to 4 million kuna, and also for the presidential elections from 4 million to 8 million kuna. The Republic of Croatia is run by former diplomats who have been standing in the Brussels halls, and the current situation in the Republic of Croatia, so I don't think there's ever been any worse and just this raise of censors should be some marketing curtain that citizens don't see the real situation in the Republic of Croatia that's happening. And what happens in the Republic of Croatia? Young people are leaving us, 150 people leave the Republic of Croatia daily, not just young people, they leave complete families. Today I came from Vrgorec by traveling in rural areas that empty both the Dalmatian Zagora and Lika. Public disposal systems, waste maintenance are becoming inert and as such they will not be able to work at all in the future, rural space is empty, health is completely in ruins, and our administration has remained in the past century, instead of catching up with digitalisation, what the neighbours have done as a prerequisite for further economic growth, in the Republic still can't do anything without paper, it's a real fact of what our Republic looks like and that's the real reason why you raise the censorships maximum for election promotion because this really should be hidden before the EU elections, ahead of the presidential elections and ahead of parliamentary elections. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133995	The 664th Amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is gone. 665th Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133996	Dear Vice President HS, State Secretary, colleague Pranic, so they didn't just do it, you know they took away your ability to define council fees at local self-government level. Now they know better than you how many councilmen should win, and even when councilmen don't want to win, they have to win because that's what the chief said, and the story is about decentralisation. The much worse thing is that you've made it possible for huge financial resources to enter the political arena, so that now natural persons can, on many occasions, give large amounts to different parties, so that in the end, the situation will happen that those who have a better amount of money in the bank account will be elected, not those whose voice weighs more. I don't know what's worse than what's worse in a bill like this honestly. I will repeat what one man said when they made it possible in that other foreign country, and he was successful, under quotes, a politician, successful because he admitted to himself that he was not successful because he was handsome, but was successful because of the personality of his pocket, in this direction you are leading us, these changes of the law along with all the other bad things you managed to install into that law. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133997	The 666th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133998	Dear Vice-President HS, dear secretary of state, as I pointed out in earlier these amendments, today I am extremely sorry that an important law regarding the financing of political activities, election promotions and a referendum which should not have been an integral part of this law since you are passing a new referendum law, I am actually sorry that there is no major reformer here, which is out of the total of 880 million kuna, whose plan is actually confirmed by the European Commission on 2 February 2017. and after that, projects could be started, so no ex ante conditions were met before, so the conditions without which you can't get EU funding. The European Commission has accepted the plan without any change of score, literally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is 14.12.2016. adopted the plan, sent it to the European Commission although two years earlier it could not have been adopted and major changes were present, in fact, 2.2.2017. The plan has been adopted, but of that money you have submitted to the Ministry e-mail, so both the administration and the Ministry of Labour and the pension system submitted total claims for compensation of 17 million kuna, which is 1.75% at the level of the statistical error. So when the government needs 1,000 cars, it gets them, when it needs cars to preside over the EU, it gets them, when it needs another 283, it gets them, and when it has 880 million kunas available, it doesn't realize them. Why? Because obviously it's not in the interest, and today you've been fighting for 2.5 million kunas for 30 hours. I'm asking for a vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u133999	667th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134000	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, the State Secretary's reaction is all the time and other State Secretarys is that the referendum is a form of political action and that it must actually be even with all the referendum initiatives and as far as the administration is concerned, and as far as funding is concerned, and maybe even has some logic about it every referendum is a form of political action, but this political action is not from the state budget, equally, there is no equal support. So political parties, especially those parliamentary ones, have a large generous funding from the state budget, have, of course, funding from membership fees. And the citizens' initiatives that run the referendum don't have any. And I don't think that's right. I was on the stands a few days ago. People decided in Samobor, where the issue of referendum initiatives was highlighted. So, the referendum initiatives are a reflection of the current political situation and this opportunity would like to praise one portal, that is the people.hr that is following us live I think this assembly session deserves a public debate, i.e. It deserves people to see us. There are some people there who praise the Bridge, who criticize the Bridge, but we have no problem with it. We will fight for the referendum as the most excellent form of funding and ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134001	668. ... Representatives of Ines Strenja. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134002	So, the Bridge insists and for the next maybe 8-10 hours, it will fight for the people to hear what we want to tell them, and that is enough of the political parties that are the centres of power, who decide who will already be hospital director, who will get a job in the county, whose entrepreneurial incubator will be financed, which ships will be bought, which catamarans will be bought, which company will co-finance, which will be left to foreigners. So, that's enough of that. We want to send a message that citizens are the ones who decide and the citizens will, once they hear why we have been fighting these 30 and so many hours, be there probably 40 hours in continuity, the citizens will hear it and the citizens will decide, decide whether to support someone who increases three times the funds for political parties or decide who has fought against it this persistently and has proposed 888 amendments. Of course HRT doesn't carry this, but they're transferring portals and that's good. The people.hr is objective, as well as index.hr passed on everything that was happening, they were a little surprised, they were a little surprised that no opposition party supported us, they went as you can see and they didn't give us support. No, we didn't expect him to remain HDZ representatives either, but it was expected that we would be supported by opposition parties, unfortunately not. This is just our initiative, and we're looking for another message. This way you won't take money from the citizens, I demand a vote. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134003	669th Amendment of Agent Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134004	Thank you, Vice President. So, here it is, four hours, 25 hours since the amendment statement started, and it means more than 31 hours since we've been here in the assembly, uninterrupted, except for that one break about 10 o'clock last night. So it's clear that you're going to do everything you can to get this bill through, to increase the funds you can spend in the election promotion to 4 million kuna, but it's also clear that we're going to give you all the resistance. We are not like others here in the Croatian Parliament, who easily give up, who pretend to be some sort of opposition, but in most cases work for the ruling. So the Bridge has shown twice that he's willing to give up the opposition. And let us remember that first Oreshkovic government, when they offered us everything to agree on, and 12 Bridge MPs, including our representative Ines Strenja, rejected it, rejected all offers, signed for the disbanding of the Parliament and went to new elections. It's impossible today, in this assembly of parliaments, where it's being transferred from one side to the other, where people are being sold, but we've never been or will be. We left the second government because we demanded the responsibility of Minister Maric, and now everything we said was true, it was not just his connection to Ivica Todorovic. We now see the connection with entrepreneur Gjoli from Sibenik as there is a connection between Minister Žalac. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134005	670th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134006	Thank you. As for the amendments under regular number 670 to 681 and they are not accepted, for the reason that the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law, which regulates the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134007	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Mosta, a respected representative of Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134008	Thank you very much. So part eight, second time, we have another shot, so we're going to try again in a constructive way to appeal to be seen. So here we are, following a little bit of media, our view is that this law significantly raises the ability to spend money on the parties, and primarily the largest HZD in the election campaign. And the logic of all people, let's save on costs that are unnecessary. We've got one HDZ that's gonna wipe it all out anyway, and there's no need to spend money. On the other hand, we're the modest means we're going to try to make out of them the best we can do for you here's what our power is. Here we have shown that we may not have the money but we have the heart, we have the heart and let's try to do the best we can and offer solutions, but here's what if you don't recognize it then our voters will recognize it and they'll reward us for this effort. It's not the first time, this is already happening, no matter what you say it is, it's the game, it's the obstructions, but no one can sell the story that a million and a half is the same thing as 4 million you're going to spend in the campaign, or for the presidential election that 4 million is the same thing, which is now 8 million. I don't know how you're counting it, I'm your mathematician and by profession and I'm eight is twice as big, that's four million more. For $4 million, you can do a lot of things, and somehow, that logic that my colleague Bacic made can't possibly sit down. What we're trying to do here is create an environment that this law of yours has a head and tail and finally that when it comes to those, primarily political parties, independent lists, referendum initiatives to accept them all and say you gave it to the ministry, the government has made a good proposal. And of course we're asking for a vote. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134009	671th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134010	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Reiner. It was expensive to pay for freedom to the Croatian people, long waited for its state, waiting for the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, when freedom was met, when the most prominent sons left their lives, when we returned to the not-so-distant past, then I was 19 years old, I remember all these brave people who expected much better, hoping much better. What are we waiting for? Today, we have welcomed that HDZ is just doing its own bag to fill in to win the election, and that is exclusively up to the parlour that works that way. When we look at the way and the behaviour of a party that wants to remain strong in the European Parliament, with whom it is in the coalition, whose interests it defends, it is disastrous. Thai, fascist Italian, is he your role model? He's your friend? He who wants Istria and Dalmatia my that's in Italy. Alexander Vukic, so I don't know how the people stand up. Why don't we talk about the Dalmatian Zagora? I was an activist. Why aren't we talking about Face? Only pre-election time, since you're the secretaries from like, I've said 100 times, more from Senj, of course, and you represent HDZ's character interests and you've done more damage than all the conquerors of the Turks do today. Empty land, burned ground for violation of the Constitution That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134011	672. Amendment of Agent Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134012	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have read now that somewhere your president of the Club of Representatives Mr. Bacic has written to me that this is a play by MOST at the Croatian Assembly. What kind of play? This is a legitimate parliamentary struggle in which we highlight all the bad features of the law that you are proposing and you want it to be passed today and to come into force before the European Parliament's vote is called on to get much more money to finance the electoral promotion and we have been repeating it for more than 30 hours. And it's not a play, it's a legitimate way of protesting. We speak in Parliament. Let me just remind you, in the U.S. Senate, senators are using a speech about some bad law and preventing the law from being put to the vote and eventually being passed. And this technique is well-known, which is called a philibuster, known as the American Senate. This prevents senators from passing bad laws for days, days, and days. What we're doing now is applying that same principle. With our speech based on the amendments we have submitted all these hours, we use the opportunity to tell citizens all the bad qualities and features of this law and why we are against it. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134013	The 673rd amendment of MP Hrvoje Runtic, is gone. 674th Representative Slaven Dobrovic. The famous Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134014	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, the same interpretation by which I do not know which time, so all the concerns about the referendum as the political will of the citizens can be reduced to any other political work that I have repeated many times an amazing fact. But don't be surprised, then, that you'll have a very difficult time keeping young people, that you'll find it very difficult to motivate them to stay, to open certain businesses, for business activities, because, of course, in our country, most of the economy is controlled in one way or another by the state apparatus, and that political caste is the one who cheers and dresses and, of course, those who would like to live on their work, and they wouldn't want to depend on the political powers that they have to donate in one way or another, there's not a lot of places for them here, and that's a big problem. So, the political caste that is forecasted to be bigger and bigger money, and of course these coins could be better used for various programs, whether they're kindergartens, whether they're programmes for gifted children, whether they're sports facilities for children, whether they're helpful for a variety of beginnings of hopes. Thief, etc., I want to vote anyway. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134015	675th Amendment of Representative Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134016	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, means, since we are raising the price allowed for election promotion from 1.5 to 4 million kuna only for the EU Parliament, what kind of message we send to those political options that are currently not represented in political, HS, and they will likely go to elections or these or future ones, they certainly cannot be equal in the beginning when this censorship is raised to 4 million kuna, when we know that this money can malte not these two largest political options accumulate and spend the maximum. Not only are they not equal, they are not equal neither in the constituents of the electoral committees, and our entire political system of the Republic of Croatia is not focused on the political options that are coming in, new political options or smaller policy options, but only on the two largest policy options that allow them to get better and better alive because they are at the start of a major advantage, instead of reducing this advantage, to participate equally in the elections with significantly lower rates of maximum censorship for the European campaign or parliamentary campaign or presidential elections, we are creating political options in an unequal position by raising that rate, which is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134017	Thank you. The 676th Amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is gone. 677 MPs, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134018	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, counterpart Pranic, you are actually talking about the fact that with this law they will introduce a rule that whoever has a fatter bank account will be the one who will be the driver of democracy, and it will not be the voice of a person in the Republic. Unfortunately, but true. And with this bill of law, the government finally showed to which at least, at least now we know economic orientation, it's a complete liberalisation of the market, the government is on the market, for sale. After all, it's not weird, it's happening in HS, they've been doing it for a year and a half, buying-sale, it's known, but now they're introducing it in a way to legalize this bill, and I've already said it once again, and I'm going to say it again, when there's a group of people who have been preying on the only goal, then they find a way to legalize it, authorize it, while the devices and the moral code that they're going to glorify it, that's what we can witness today in Croatian politics, in HS and from the rulings, but again, I'm going to say no one has so much as shined by dawn and all of what you do if you can keep power in your hands, and that's why you're horrified at the mentioning a potential referendum, and, let go on your head be robbed by those who once tried to make Croatian silence, haven't been famously finished. You as his heirs will end equally. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]] Of course I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134019	678th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134020	Dear Vice-President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, MOST has brought about 888 actually amendments to this bill of yours, colleagues defend them and, respectively, explain them. What is important is that I have proposed in this amendment that, in fact, the article for which the text is proposed is deleted, and that this text does not actually belong to the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, or to the second reading of this law, but rather to the Law on the Referendum, which is announced and which soon, according to your respective minister, comes to public consultation. What's also questionable to us is that it breaks over its knees, it's disputed that the electoral rules, so political promotion is being funded and changed itself before the elections, it's certainly not a good practice, we've heard from Professor. The bottom line is that it is not a good practice, and despite all the 888 amendments that you are neatly all but all of you are refusing to do so, we believe that it is a controversial moment, and the entire Croatian public considers it because, in fact, on social networks, citizens comment on the portals, commenting on a way to rule because they did not experience in two years that we have been around any law concerning 2/3 of the RH mountainous areas and assisted areas, you have provided only 120 million kunas, and here you have worked out detailed mechanisms which would be if it were and please ask that the proposed amendment.../Are you asking for a vote?/...you guarantee the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134021	679th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, therefore, I will repeat, the recommendations of the Venice Commission which says that, whose recommendation is that the laws on the Election Law and on the financing of political parties, the referendum initiatives, not all political actors be passed in the year when the elections are held. We have a Europarliamentary election this year very quickly and this law is passed very quickly, so it is written expressly and it is seen by the fact that it is so unprofessional. We have one fact and since I really like football, compare it to the football league, as if at the end of the league a certain football alliance decides to change the rules and decide to say, it doesn't turn out to be two first league clubs and go to second, but three or four. Of course it would be a scandal, so I think it's this. I think all political actors must have equal chances and have to start, so they have to rest on fair play. So, this law extends certain political parties, this law has been passed for the sole purpose, because of the Europarliamentary elections, because of another 4 million kuna and that is a bad message for Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens are on the verge of existence, they are disappointed in politics anyway, I believe that this law will still, even more so, throw faith in politicians and political parties, but it is obvious that it suits someone and I want to vote on this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134023	680th Amendment to Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134024	Thank you. I will repeat once again that this law has something to do with the Arkan. Ruzatovic Arkan. I've said that before. And why is that? So by this law you wanted to enable the mayor of the City of Zagreb to spend a million kunas in its election promotion, a million kunas of money from our citizens, and we asked that it be reduced by at least 200 thousand. Perhaps we should have done less because it was the mayor who, with great honor, received the president of the Jagodina Assembly, Mr. Palm, who, you can imagine, founded the party during the war with Raznatovic Arkan. And it was all forgotten after that, such a man, the mayor of the City of Zagreb receives, with our money, with Mr. Maras' money, but it is also my money, and it is known that everything is in Zagreb and who pays all the taxes in Zagreb. So it's the money of all of us, he's hosting such a man. And then we're still giving him a million kunas for his promotion, so I don't know which time, which, by the way, 12 times, becomes mayor. That's what this is about. So, we have deeply disrupted the relations that we need to finance, we have greatly disrupted these relations, but we have also disrupted the relations and ratios that must be costing in the promotional campaign, primarily as regards major political parties, the europarliamentary elections, but also for the mayor of the City of Zagreb. I demand a vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134025	681st Amendment of MP Nikola Grumoje Comrade Maras, what? [[Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President. Please.]] Your break took advantage of the break, your word was taken from you. You can't because your word has been taken away [[But it's not for a break, I want to intervene outside of this.]] You can't talk because you've been taken from your word, and besides, you've taken advantage of the break. [[No, no, no, but this is on behalf of the club.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134026	Wait a minute, Mr. Vice President, this has nothing to do with this particular pause, etc., I mean something like a representative in HS. I can't speak in HS? [[Intruder: You cannot when your word has been taken away.]] But wait a minute. [[Intruder: Not when your word is taken from you.]] I don't know what you're talking about first. So I want to be represented, it's not allowed here once. And the President of Parliament allows, when you raise your hand to say what you think and it has nothing to do with a break, it has nothing to do with anything but common sense. I want you to give me 30 seconds to tell you something. But it's not about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, etc. [[I can't give it to you when I have information that your word has been taken from you.]] Mr. Vice President, I appeal to you. [[Intruder: Irrelevant.]] You're a doctor, you're supposed to be a humanist, you're doing charity work. You're a knight from the Cross of Jerusalem, I beg you, allow a break for people to rest. [[Intruder: Comrade Maras, please.]] There are people in this House. It's been over 33 hours. [[/Intruder: colleague Maras. You have two warnings.]] Thirty-three hours working people in pieces. Please allow a break of several hours for people to switch, rest and allow colleagues and colleagues [[Intruder: Please leave the hall.]] What? [[Intruder: Leave the hall, please.]] What am I supposed to leave the hall for? Which is why you provide inhumane conditions. [[Intruder: Because you are violating the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134027	Because I won't let you speak, you keep talking, you have your word taken away, you have two warnings, please leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134028	Yeah, this is amazing. You're not a humanist, Mr. Rainer. You're not a humanist, you're not helping people... [[- Intruder: Excellent.]] Intruder:
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134029	Comrade Grmoy, here you are, you have the word. You are making it impossible for the session to take place normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134030	SDP colleagues weren't here the whole time, if they were, they would know that the chairman is certainly neither humanist nor Catholic, as he seems, because if he were, he wouldn't behave like this. So this is one unspeakable behavior and experience towards party colleagues, that is, to fellow parliamentary colleagues, but it doesn't matter, we're going to take it all, not a break is possible, but we're not complaining, so we're ready to be here until the last moment to torture you in this intention to deepen your party register. So it's absolutely unacceptable what you're doing to raise from 1.5 million kuna to $4 million for election promotion, this is absolutely incomprehensible what you're doing and you're pushing it at all costs. So we've given you a tough resistance here, the question is what's going to happen to this law of yours, I hear you're sending messages that HDZ's are gathering around 21 hours, and I see that your colleagues from the HNS are already in position and you've decided to push this bill at all costs, but we'll continue to give you a tough resistance if there are no other colleagues from the opposition, we are here from the MOST, and this resistance is quite enough for you. So we're not going to let you do everything you want to do, or you haven't already succeeded in your intention, because at 12, there was supposed to be a vote on these amendments and this law, and it's clear that the Most gave you a strong answer to these attempts to enlarge your party's register. I'm looking for a vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like to vote on it?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134031	Thank you. The next 682th amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, amendments under regular number 682 to 693 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing and financing other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134033	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134034	Thank you very much. When you thank the Secretary of State, the first thing he respected was this amendment and that we had one tiny mistake technically, so instead of paragraph 7, it was paragraph 5. But here I am glad that you considered that it was just a technical mistake and that the intention was actually to get around paragraph 7. to the solution. But here, so now we've come to the end of the eighth act, as you might say, and the third accident. There's no third luck but also a third accident, so it's just an indication that it just doesn't work out, and then it won't, then we have to look for another option, and hopefully the next election will show that we can find such a solution, and then what we've discussed today, because we already have a good discussion, we'll just give these amendments and change that bill and everyone will be happy. Now, unfortunately, we're going to have to go to the part that doesn't make us happy, and these are the provisions that will be punished, and we'd say in advance, have mercy because the way you're punishing primarily a number of independent lists, where for some small mistake, some failure that certainly isn't intended, and it happens that they don't have enough knowledge because these are extensive documents, you write these laws like this, and so for those of us who are verifiable, it's hard to keep track of how many of them there are, so here's hope that we'll still have some concrete suggestions on your part, because this is what I think and my colleagues and colleagues have memorized in mind what the secretary of state and the other and you said, and this was such reading as a poem, we felt like in the first grade of elementary school. I'll have a vote, please. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134035	683rd Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134036	Where'd the man go? Where did the man Lovro Kuščević go? HNS colleagues, have you seen him? Or will they just line you up to vote for this damage, a violation of the Constitution, for this trade that's going on in the Parliament? This must be the representative body of the people, the people, the representative body and these are harmful laws for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Harmful. First of all, the graver of the Lovro Kuščević referendum has in this way not only euthanized citizens' initiatives and the first article of the Constitution in the basic provisions violated, did not violate, but those who died for freedom did not die for the dictatorship of Andrej Plenkovic or Vladimir Seks. Vladimir Shakespeare designed all of this. He designed it to be a proportionate system, not to be what the People's Initiative is looking for to change election law, you know why? Because he must be inspired by the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, who inspires him? Is fascist Italy where the relative winner was given mandates? And they even mentioned it. But from this law that you've proposed here, the only thing that's going to get rid of the mustache is the fat ones who ate all the lambs and all the herds, HDZ. HDZ will desecrate, of course, PR services, various promoters, various commentators, only them. My poor secretary, what have you made of like acting, the Dalmatian burns, but it'll fit in your end, but you won't. I want to because of this because you won't do what you want. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134037	684th Amendment of Representative Roberta Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134038	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. You are convinced in the parliamentary majority and in the government of the Republic of Croatia that you can do everything you want and that neither the government nor your parliamentary majority is limited and that you will force this law and that it will come into effect where you will actually achieve your plans to increase the funding of elections for the European Parliament and that all this will be achieved. However, we have already shown you in this debate these days that it is not that simple and that you may not succeed here in the Croatian Parliament. But in addition, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, this system of parliament is based on certain checks and balances. And so today we have pointed out the great responsibility of the president of the Republic of Croatia because she calls the elections, she can do it with today, she signs an order to declare the law, and she doesn't have to do it tomorrow if you vote today, it depends on her. And we also called on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia if you will still succeed in voting this law, we will announce in the National Journal that it will enter into force before the next elections for the European Parliament. And they have a great responsibility to protect and defend constitutional values. Therefore, I do not believe with all the dams that this Constitution has that you will succeed in achieving your intention and this plan that you are carrying out without regard for any constitutional value, democracy and rule of law I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134039	685th Amendment of MP Hrvoje Runtic, he is gone. 686th Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134040	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, yes, and this amendment has been equally rejected, so it needs to be protected from the referendum, it is indeed one big threat, a threat to a political caste that is capable of taking care of everything and which certainly does not need the opinion of the people, no questions should be consulted. For example, strategic decisions that could be taken to harm me now come to my mind the choice of this famous waste management centre in Lečevica. You know how it was chosen? It was chosen by one arbitration decision, you don't even know from anyone, but in no time that location entered the documentation, and now it's being repeated for 15 years. And now, what kind of decision is that? How much does she weigh? Will he have consequences? Yeah, all these questions are all, are answers worse than worse because it's a completely insane idea of people who are completely ignorant of solutions, so for a question where and what and how to put them. Not only are they ignorant but they are persistent in that wrong solution and persist in that wrong direction, of course, to the harm of all those who are under their authority. These are these harmful decisions that lead nowhere and cause great disappointment among the people And that's why I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134041	The 687th Amendment of Representative Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134042	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We see that, with the proposal for this law, we are also raising the maximum funding rate for the election promotion for the president or the president of the Republic of Croatia. I really don't know why we're raising from 4 million to 8 million, I'm honest with you so we can start reforming the purpose of the state and finally decide that we're in a parliamentary system or some semi-presidential, presidential system. Let's look at Germany for choosing the president, how many they choose, how much they invest in the campaign for that function, which means that function in Germany, which means in Croatia. I don't see no matter who's at the head of Pantovka, I don't see a battle for young people to stay in Croatia, that EU funds are being withdrawn faster, that our agriculture is better, that our health care is better, that our industry is better. And with all the will of the future president or future president, they will not have the authority to decide. And again, we're raising censorships from 4 million to 8 million kuna for the election promotion for that function at the end of this year. For what? If we raise powers and not make this system literally where it all comes down to painting, to certain PRs, marketing and everything else, and there's no PRs that will illuminate the current state of the country that's not good, because the biggest resources of the state are people and people are getting less and less and less. Sure, thanks. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134043	The 688th amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is gone. 689th Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134044	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. We invited President Grabar Kitarovic to take advantage of the possibility he has available to stop the literal rape of the procedure and broken over his knee which is working here currently ruling size and to show that she is not only the president of the HDZ, but that, as the president of all the Croatians said in time. If the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not HDZ in the first place, will very well promote what happened in HS in the last 30 and a few hours, then they will look at what kind of bill was put on the table and why the ruling majority eventually wanted to implement it and vote to get an autograph, and then eventually they will realize that this law does not apply at all in any way to citizens, but only to HDZ, so if it cares about citizens, if it is the president of all citizens, then it will know that it will recognise and judge for the benefit of citizens, and not HDZ, because the current law that they have proposed in HS rule only serves them to make one beautiful, beautiful, podekin's villages and nothing more, in order to smooth their cheeks, it has absolutely nothing to do with the benefits of citizens, they had 100 ways of producing benefits for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They only cared about themselves, and I believe they will, and I hope that the president will. [[Intruder: Are you asking for a vote?]] Knowled, of course I'm asking you to vote [[Intruder: 690th Amendment...]] on this amendment. [[Intruder:...representatives Sonja Čikotić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134045	690th Amendment [[Intruder:...representatives Sonja Čikotić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134046	The Honorable Vice-President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, in fact, this amendment, which has been tabled, is in fact, seeking to delete this article, given that the article in question should be transferred or should become an integral part of the second law, that is, the Law on the referendum. The referendum law has been announced by a major reformer that he is going to go to public consultation soon and simply there to foresee all this that is foreseen here, to arrange how referendum initiatives will be launched, in which way they will be financed, and certainly to regulate them in relation to protourendum initiatives that the really great reformer has said will be introduced as a new institute. So what matters to me in this law is that the whole mechanism, the whole mechanism, is secured in a way that increases political promotion and not only in this EU elections, normally, they are the key because they are the first to come, but also for the presidential elections both for parliamentary elections and for the county and any other election. We mean, you by this law, and we oppose it, you increase your finances for political promotion, you actually define here a series of provisions that make it difficult to implement and start referendum initiatives, you put them in the same rank with an organisation or with political parties, simply, it's not the same. So, please, about this amendment that I've put into that article. Yeah, I want a vote. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134047	691th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so, people are sending me nonstop messages and I believe in one spin of HDZ, a piar, and these messages are already starting to be sent by the president of Mr. Bačić's club that Minister Žalac should have been more careful, therefore, to overshadow this debate, this debate where we have debated this harmful law for 30 hours, I believe that HDZ today will replace the minister of regret to focus, not this. But if that's not the case, we expect the Croatian media to also focus on, not our 30 hour watch in HS, so that's our job, but this harmful law, it's important here, so he's focused here and that's why we're here. I think that in our society everything was somehow wrongly set, when we didn't want to agree two years ago, then it was a miracle, of course, that it was a miracle when all the political elites had not done so far, and this should be normal in Croatian society, that we are normal Croatian society, such phenomena and such political moves should be normal, as well as this defense, so this struggle for the Croatian people. So, I will repeat again, so we want to place in the public's focus that this is a bad law, that it violates the referendum initiatives, that it is re-allocated to political parties, that there is no concern for the people, and that I will also mention the donations of humanitarians that are in an unequal position towards political parties, and I think that this sends a bad message and ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134049	692th Amendment of the Ines Strenja MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134050	Reading through the portals and messages on social networks, I actually see that I was wrong the whole time. So, all the time I think HDZ thinks it's a big party and it just wants its victory to be even bigger and even more magnificent, that it has the largest number of MPs, to be the most beautiful, the smartest, and then I actually realize that you really don't believe in a good result, that you need an extra 2.5 million kuna to achieve such a result and try to get as much as you get the last time. So you're not sure of yourself. Well, you see, we're sure of what we're going to do, we're safe in our score, we're sure that the money that we've got now as a political party is more than enough because it's the taxpayers' money we really have to be responsible for, and you think we need to dive even deeper with our hands, with our fingers in our citizens' pockets because they need to pay you beautiful big jumbo posters in the most attractive places, the most posters, the most musicians and famous stars to sing and work with those sheep and oxes that Bulj mentioned, so I don't really follow that much. So obviously you are insecure and it is not good to believe that you will achieve with the help of your volunteers who have been giving you their voice faithfully. We don't need any more money, and both citizens think you don't need any more money. That's why I'm asking you to vote on this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134051	The 693rd Amendment of Agent Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134052	Thank you, Vice President, there are no opposition representatives, there is no colleague Škorić and a colleague I don't know now, but the two of them, I apologize, yes, yes, this one, these two are here and our vice president of the Academy Reina Assembly, so the three of them should, but academic Rainer should certainly have some distinction he likes medals, likes titles for this as he defended the party register could be called a knight from a party register or a knight from the Fimi Media or a knight from, of, of, from some party HDZ fund. So he fought bravely here to get those 2.5 million kunas in the party register, but neither we, nor we give up, the support comes from all sides, so people send messages, they thank us, they say we're heroes, we're no heroes that we've been discussing here for 31.5 hours, but it's certain that we're a team that decided not to tell HDZ and this way that, past the Rules of Procedure, we're trying to impose a certain law before the president calls the elections just to fight for additional funding. And when we last discussed Croatian defenders this much, when we discussed the completed, blocked, Croatian entrepreneurs, you did not show this kind of agility either you or your HDZ colleagues, but when it comes to the party register Then you're ready to discuss it for hours and days. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134053	694th Amendment, I assume you'd like a vote, 694th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134054	The amendments under regular number 664 to 705 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134055	Honored representative on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134056	Thank you very much, so we have now entered those provisions where it stands from 10 to 100,000 kuna for the political party, and for independent lists from 2 to 20,000 kuna, what I have mentioned is slightly inappropriate. So it's inappropriate to have an independent list that, with 2, 3, max 5,000 kuna, makes elections in a municipality, gets these elections, and eventually makes a formal mistake and eventually the fine is 20,000 kuna. That's what if you make a little bit of a mistake, you won't be dealing with politics anymore. So there's no mistake. If, for example, it were to be evaluated in this way. HDZ, oh, boy, you wouldn't have been here for days and days, so you wouldn't have gone out with those tunnels in daylight. But you see that it brings you back.../incomprehensible/... in some way you're constantly recycling there, but you need to have the understanding that even a little bit of living would come out of that shadow of yours, try to bring some new thinking, some new way of managing. We see that people recognize it, and it's a good correction to you, and that you feel that in the field, especially in such environments, you see that you didn't function very well and that you need to be repaired. Of course it's always a phenomenon for us too why it doesn't happen to you, why always some people who are troublesome are coming back so I'm picking up those mayors 1, 2, 3, 4 and you're wondering what it's like for those in the county community to agree to act like that, but here's what maybe I've just expanded the story now, but just so those who listen to us realize what we're trying to say. So it's important to recognize if I have a good intention, and not at the end of it because of some formal pea punish someone, and those who are great are never reached. We are also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134057	695th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134058	Thank you very much. I see that the president of the assembly announced somewhere on the facebook he wrote that he was moving into battle and that they would go into battle now. What he's going to fight for, how he picks up here, grease his mustache with this money by increasing two million kunas. So if that river were going into battle before he was with Ivo Sanader, the foreign minister, we will not give Gotovina, we will declare an exclusive economic belt, we will protect the interests of Croatian farmers, Croatian workers, Croatian shipyards, I would say, come on. Now that he's destroyed everything, and with this law, he's gonna take the money, he's gonna kill the referendum, and he's gonna write on the official pages, the facebook pages of the speaker and the secretary, and we're gonna go into battle and we're gonna vote whenever we want to. That whoever comes will come, so those who are ripped out, those who are Vladimir Seks and PPD and all those institutions that are now working how they have huge profits, the waste mob all who function in the way that the fight will go, that HDZ will have 2 million more and of course I will say it openly here, with the support of the SDP. Because the SDP has a lot more parliamentary representatives 3 if they'd given five amendments, so you'd see if there were 150 more amendments. Where are the other colleagues from the opposition? I don't usually like calling them, but I don't expect anything else from HDZ. Croatia has been swept away, 2/3 of Croatia is a shot-out country. 2/3 of Croatia is a firing country. And now you're shutting down democracy, closing down journalists. You're defending parliamentary agents from speaking... This is exactly why I'm asking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134059	The 696th Amendment of Agent Robert Dolnjak, he's gone. In 697, the representative of Hrvojo Runtic, was missing, 698th MP Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134060	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome again the secretary of state and all my colleagues and colleagues. Yes, that's the same logic and that same lack of real strategy, that is, the same tendency to the wrong strategy. And go back to this lens I mentioned earlier. So the whole end, the whole one county is actually, the hostage of one wrong decision, one wrong policy that keeps pushing. And it was interesting to listen to the contemporary mayor of Split's Dalmatian County, who has just cited the centre as the main strategic centre. I don't know what role he thought it would bring in employment, in new products, because it's actually just a bag, a bag with no bottom and a water soil devastation and the whole environment. So positioning one such center in the area, pure, angry,... unexplored junk, where there are definitely strong hydrogeological activities where it is defined, definitely a land area, for important springs of drinking water in the coast and put it there 50 km away from the largest centre is a complete madness, but a good example of this nakaradic approach, and a lack of strategy, which often meets Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so, we insist on changing attitudes because we... Yes, and that's why we're asking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134061	In 699, the amendment was made by MP Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134062	Thank you, Vice President. In this law, it is not clear to me why the price for the election promotion is needed, for the European Parliament, from 1.5 million kuna to 4 million kuna, which is all wonderful and wonderful and wonderful, as it has been shown to us for months, as it has shown us for the last year, two days. What the majority party is afraid of, that is, what this government is afraid of, so it needs another 2.5 million kuna of marketing, a promotion to prove to people. If we do everything great, if we make a great living, if people say we don't move out, if we solve the problem of waste, if our health care is so good, if we're on top of a scale of European countries by withdrawing grants, and we're not. And our citizens know it well, and most of all those people who have moved out of Croatia, and these are not young people anymore, they are complete families. You are experiencing a situation that may not be seen from these 2 Zagreb hills, from Mark's Square and Pantovac, there is a situation that the rural space of Croatia is empty. So the families are leaving, they're not coming back. Infrastructure's bad. Unsustainable because of the people who go away, the ones who stay, the duties of many are increased, the beautiful does not live. And that's why you need to invest an extra 2.5 million kuna in various P.R agencies, marketing... presented a different picture of Croatia, requesting a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134063	The 700th Amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, is gone, 701st Representative God Petrova.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134064	Dear Chairman, I believe that after so many hours have been spent, you will know very well with us what our objections to the bill of law your political partners have released. Well, if there was absolutely nothing else we could do, I believe you would know how to explain it to your colleagues. Maybe that's enough satisfaction, because as far as I can see your colleagues have no intention of listening at all they've decided what they're going to do, whether there are correct, concrete suggestions to perfect something. And I'm going to ask you, do you consider this law correct to the citizens? You don't know the answer, and it says enough, if you don't know the answer to that question, and at least then we might have done something if you were convinced, that after 10 hours, you're not already safe, you're moving, thank you for that. I believe that after 30 and a few hours spent and all the people who could read, people know that the law isn't good, it's a real satisfaction, that at least people know what's going on, because you thought the law would get under the grain like that, you won't notice it, which is 2-3 million, nothing. It's not a two or three million problem. The problem is you've never had enough. That's one problem. Another problem you've tried to touch into freedom, and whenever you touch into freedom, you'll get this answer. As long as we're in these benches, I'm telling you and Mr. Bačić, Mr. Jandrokovic and Mr. Plenkovic. Whenever you touch free, you'll get an even stronger answer. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134065	Are you looking for a vote? Of course, I'll definitely pass it on to my colleagues, especially after you've insulted me so much, I enjoyed it, believe me. 702. Amendment of the representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134066	The Honorable Vice President of HS. Today, we are discussing the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums and, in fact, the amendment proposed, proposes to delete the whole article in order for this text to be an integral part of the referendum law. Why? I think we need this law. Well, I mean, that's what you'd be able to talk about, but this way you need it, is it exactly like this? Is it really necessary in such a way that you so, so much, really want to increase these, promotions actually and these campaigns that you have to bring it now before the EU elections. Otherwise what? Otherwise what? And now, if MOST hadn't given 888 amendments, in fact, part of the law on difficulties, shutdowns, complications, increased complexity, the launch of referendum initiatives, it would have passed you. You would have gone through and no one would have asked you anything, the president would have called the election on Monday and everything would have gone according to the paper, but here we have handed over 888 actually amendments and I would like to say that, although you think this is the most important thing now because you have received this task, 850,000 inhabitants in Croatia live at risk of poverty. Every 10th person is actually energy poor. 92 thousand people receive a pension of up to 500 kuna, and this law and these amendments, in fact, I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134067	703rd Amendment of Representative Mark Sladoliev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, we have already talked about Croatia being networked with political elites, and that Zagreb is in some way the capital of the number of politicians and the number of politicians who have been paid for jobs that unfortunately they do not do. So every unit of local self-government as founder has the right to put politicians on school boards, kindergarten and school supervisory committees and it was purposely done, it was designed to frame their principals by school, who have party cards. But only the City of Zagreb has paid politicians on these school boards and not a bit. So it's about 400 kn per meeting, that they're there for very benign reasons, about whether you should receive one maid... maternity or not, so these meetings sometimes last for 10 minutes and the money of the citizens of Zagreb, cap on the jury account 400 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are thousands and thousands of such people in the City of Zagreb and all of these are paid by the citizens of the City of Zagreb. But it's not just that. It is that this law will make the most of just three policy options. One is HDZ, therefore, which has proposed this law, the second is the most loyal coalition partner of the HNS and is the third collector of chips, which is Milan Bandic. We are also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134069	704th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, we are looking for a whole series of, eradicating a whole series of articles that are related to the organisation and compensation actually for the referendum, because we believe that the referendum initiatives must be regulated by a special referendum law, because you have made it difficult for all the people of the Republic of Croatia to be democratically entitled, which is that if they consider that any issue of importance for the regulation and for the citizens of a country, they should be made known. About how you played the citizens who collected hundreds of thousands of signatures, it's hard to say something new, whether I agree or disagree with certain questions, it's the right for citizens to plead at the referendum. It's the right of citizens to say, you've collected 300 thousand signatures, not 400, 300 thousand, it's a message that citizens want to decide on it, and then you've assigned the noble Lovre Kuštević to find some signatures that don't match and then find them, calculates that those who will actually be important because there won't be enough signatures that are valid and then destroys everything that could prove it. And what we would like, the citizens of this country, to want an orderly state in which you can go to a referendum, in which someone will say, you've collected so many signatures that we'll let you answer about it and that's what this amendment is about. [[Agreement: Do you want a vote or not?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134071	Amendment of the representative of Nikola Grumoje Here you go. [[Strenja raider: Ask to be voted on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134072	Dear Vice President, it is clear, therefore, that you are not giving up your intention to push through this law before the president puts up elections, she should have called them today, but she is probably stalling under your influence to allow HDZ additional 2.5 million kuna for election promotion. It is bad for the Croatian democracy that the president also becomes your party puppet who needs to provide you with a million more for this election promotion. However, what happened to you in the Croatian Parliament today did not face this. I'm told by parliamentary representatives of HDZ cannot believe what determination they are, especially the women at the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and I, as the president of the club, have already said that, I'm very proud of my fellow MPs, we've played this as a Croatian team at the World Cup, compact means in defense, we stretch out as a harmonica in defense, and then when we attack, it's something incredibly insecure, insecure and I'm very honored to be president of such a club, and I can tell you that we will continue as long as we can, some way the MPs unfortunately, have not been able to move on, but here most of the clubs are there, we're pushing this over 32 hours and we're not giving up. You're changing fellow Reiner, there's none of your parliamentary representatives, you're changing as vice presidents, you're not even giving us a break, but we don't need your mercy, but we won't give it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134073	Would you like a vote? ... You've quoted very nicely, Tito, but do you want to vote? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Great, I'm glad we know now what your ideal is. [[Grmoya raider: Looking for a vote.]] Here you are, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Journals 706th Amendment. Darko Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134074	I thank you, the amendments under regular 706 to 717 are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134075	On behalf of the Club this time, there will be a respected representative of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And this is another in a series of amendments that are related to the fact that we wanted the referendum initiatives to be regulated by a special referendum law. Referendum initiatives are important no matter how much you deny it. Reference initiatives can be right and left, and you may be surprised that some referendum initiatives will bring together a full opposition and perhaps raise half a million votes. The referendum initiative that's right around your corner right around the corner, right around the corner, that's a referendum initiative aimed at what you've done with the pension reform. So citizens in Croatia live shorter than citizens in the EU, three years shorter and you ask them this reform to extend two more years to fill pension funds and therefore they come into a situation after hard, hard work and work to go directly from pension to cemetery. Unfortunately, it's an ugly thing to say. And then they're not true of those stories when you say that young people are going to start, what your famous minister says that he's always been doing all his life inside the state's apparatus and administration that they're going to be 40 years before the '60s, no, some of them were working on black, some of them couldn't get a job, some of them got their job in any way, and they won't be able to collect 40 years. They will work up to 67 years of hard work for workers who will then be in a position to retire and then very quickly end their lives because they did not live well. I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134077	707th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134078	Thank you. The bridge of independent lists is by its struggle, trying to restore the centre of power to the people's representatives and what is the constitutional obligation of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. However, the struggle is difficult but here we have proved today that we can also fight these windmills, that we can also fight Andrej Plenkovic, Seks, Tajani, Vukic and all their friends who have been in owls, Kosovos. You're a colleague of Reiner, a man who was during Karamark for lustration and voted against opening an archive to open the historical facts. Imagine what you did. You still wanted to share the people in stories you're married, you're this, so they're all comforters, and basically no one knows who you're getting her into. When the archives opened, you voted first for our law, to pass elections to deceive the people, manipulate and then not so long closed that archive. You know what you did? Are you the one for lustration, during Karamark, clapping that lustration is the main one? What's she doing there? The potty, the trails, the bridges. Yes, you clapped on Mesic, that you said you needed to lift the office, the surplus, this you didn't have, you didn't have the courage, until you brought it to the wall because it runs with you, and the structures run with you, so today we're being led by the state of people who would tribally promote the referendum, to be like in Switzerland, what Colinda Grabar Kitarović said, today the trial is to call a referendum. No, because it's from the same incubator. And that just because they're... [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134079	708th Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak/... I'm asking for a vote. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134080	Mr. Vice-President HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, after hundreds of amendments, I believe that we have pointed out to the Croatian public all the crazyness of this project to adopt the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, according to this procedure which violates all the principles of the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, good parliamentary customs, in order to prove this to you and the Croatian public through 30 and more hours of debate, and each time we get a response that looks like a broken gramophone board, always the same refrain, this law has to be arranged, it regulates a referendum campaign without any respect for any argument, and we have repeated all of this since the first reading of this law in the final proposal, in the debate on hundreds of amendments. You know what? I'm watching now as the media is reporting what you called a game and a circus, no, the media understands, they understand what we're actually talking about all the time and now they're saying that they don't understand why HDZ is pushing this crazy law, here's what you're doing now is a reaction to the media and everybody knows, and the citizens know, and you've actually allowed yourself into something and you didn't know what the consequences are going to have. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134081	709th representative of Hrvojo Runtic, gone. 710th Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134082	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, and I welcome both the Secretary of State and my colleagues. Yeah, it's about strengthening the political caste, so, which manages everything and regulates everything because it's known that money, power and influence make up the axis of society and if it's controlled by a political group, then unfortunately it means that there's nothing to do if you're not involved, and that's defeating, and it's known that many of the ends are such that if you're not connected to a political group that's in power that you can't do anything, you can't get a job at school or kindergarten, if you start with a job, who's going to give you work, so people are tied up and dependent on being loyal to a group, and that's one of the gardens that doesn't lead anywhere. So, the country doesn't just prosper, it stagnates, and it happens, and unfortunately, it's very well seen, that one tendency is natural, so it's no wonder, people who live on it and so on and so on, they tend to preserve it. However, we have recognized it, and that is why we have brought this number of amendments because we really care to draw attention to that fact and to the need to change it. Of course, I want a vote. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134083	711th Amendment of Representative Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This law can be reduced to two thesis. One thesis is the filling of party registers under the minimum censorship system that cities and municipalities need to single out for political parties represented in the city and municipal councils and other thesis based on the raising of censorships of the maximum funding of electoral promotion in all elections, both elections for the European Parliament, such as presidential elections and everything else, just to improve the piar image of the current situation in the Republic which is all, just not good at all. Just look at the news of what's going on today, see how you buy cars, Mercedes, how you drive without driver's licenses and nothing. But this is also less important, it is more important that, after economic growth, we are last in the EU after the withdrawal of grants, last and last, by industrial production we are in decline, and by the largest resource of a country, which is people, that is man, I mean at the top of the EU, as far as our people are moving out of the country. And all of this needs to be blacked out through marketing, through a pirate that costs, and that's why there's a censorship going up today to hide the real state of the Republic of Croatia. I'm looking for this amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134085	The 712th Amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is gone. 713th Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134086	Thank you to the chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs, after 30 and a few hours of debate I know that the citizens have received a message, but I want to tell them one other thing if we can hold out 30 hours and a hand on the heart, get you, then it's a sign that they can do it too. It's important if you have a goal, if you have a will, if you have a reason. Our reason is that we didn't get involved in politics to be nobodies, to be situationed, to be well. I didn't mean to offend you in any way in the previous interpretation of the amendment, I really think that a person should be free, and when I say that we will react sharply every time anyone touches freedom, believe that it will be so independent that you are on our way, have found yourself an SDP or don't know which party. For too long, Croatia has been in the chains of dictatorial regimes, too much blood has been shed to come some after 28 years and realize that they are happy to take over the system of functioning as we were 70 years old and start suffocating freedom again, they won't ic, they won't ic. As long as we're here, you won't be watching that movie. Tell reformer Kuštević and the great leader Andrej Of course. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134087	714th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134088	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here it comes again until 5 o'clock, there is no major reformer here, sent you as Bulj said, sent you with this law and you and the secretary of state to the Croatian Parliament to defend the indefensible, that here you are looking for 2.5 million kuna to actually increase the promotion and all with one goal because you know when you look at the Doing Business List, the ease of business, then you see that Croatia is 58th and Macedonia is 11. When you actually listen to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's speech, then he says come to investors, come to Croatia, we have cheap labour, so I don't want Croatia to be a cheap workforce. Also when you listen to Resort Minister Gabriela Žalac, she says that we are successful in using European funds and then you actually go to Cohesion Data and actually look at that Malta has passed us. So out of the 10.7 billion euros available, Croatia used only 17% of the funds. Only 17% of the funds went to Bregan and in order to verify that 17% of the funds, SAFU, the Central Finance and Contracting Agency of the projects actually found 500 million kunas of illegality. We say irregularities but in order to become something irregular, it must first be illegal. Other bodies such as the Croatian Waters, such as the Environmental Protection Fund, like other bodies, will also find administrations and irregularities and it will come to billions but simply why you need a new 2.5 million to solve all this I demand a vote on this amendment, thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134089	718th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134091	Excuse me, 715....
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134092	So, not Minister Kuščević will come and I repeat again, perhaps the last 15 minutes may come as the great bosses usually come to those ministries. So when we asked for the signatures of the alleged who were irregular at the Ministry of Administration, we never expected him, so he doesn't want to face us face-to-face because he has no arguments. So his range of fighting MOST are Facebook images of a broken bridge in teen manners but well, that's his way of fighting and that's what the citizens will estimate. What concerns me much more is his and the Priory's position to bring down referendum initiatives until they've even begun to collect signatures. So the Ministry of Administration, which should represent all citizens who are for or against the referendum, is placed on one side. So when HDZ is in opposition to Milanovic's government, then they objected to them for such an attitude. So I believe that their form of governance is equal, that they are also ruling because it is not in the interest of the referendum initiative, I believe that 2/3 of the majority will support amendments to the referendum law that will limit signatures to be collected only in local self-government units, so there is no difference in local self-government. Thank you. Yeah. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134093	716th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134094	Thank you. I would say a little bit of the fact that we're missing out on this by putting money into political parties, of course we said which parties will most profit, MOST doesn't need to profit, MOST is satisfied with what it now gets, we think that even a little and too much, absolutely at the level of local and regional self-government is too much, just reminding my colleague of Sladoliev, in Primorje-Gorski County there's no school board member in which he's not a member of the board who doesn't have a party card but these left coalitions, there were 8 so that everywhere it's all the same, of course the school boards fill in, unfortunately that's it. As for the money invested in political parties, I think it could be much more meaningful to invest in our health care. Of course, not to overdo it or to go through the sieve because primarily everything should depend on the management of each hospital. But I would remind you once again what are the reasons why the health care system is creating debts and why every month we have losses that are heavy, imagine, 2800 medical salaries, and the doctor doesn't have any. So the reasons why the system generates debts are, among other things, unequal technology in hospitals, the use of expensive devices just hours a day because many devices have been assigned and gone to hospitals based on political powers, not on the needs they need to monitor and fit, not on a device, so there's no one to work on or you have a frame on, so then he's got nothing to work on. The lack of quantity and quality criteria of work, etc., I will continue later, please take this amendment to my vote. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134095	The 717th Amendment of MP Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134096	Dear Vice President, you don't understand democracy, your political role model is Josip Broz Tito and totalitarian regimes because you're here, I'm in a joke paraphrasing Rada Končar, you said it was Josip Broz Tito because you are the role model Tito, half of your party, and more than half of the key HDZ people came from the Communist party of Yugoslavia. And that's why you, because your party is in a major downturn and because it's clear that you don't have any coalition potential, because you want extra money, you don't need extra money to stand up well and the only option, the only coalition potential is a big coalition with the SDP, I can't wait for it to happen, that we can sing that "That party in two parts, you'll be whole again", that's why you're obstructing referendum initiatives, that's why you have a relationship with freedom of the media, which is one of the greatest achievements of all liberal democracies, freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of expression, you're sending journalists to editorials, these are your role models, and MOST is an option that advocates freedom of freedom of speech, freedom of opinion, freedom of opinion, freedom of referencing citizens, and of course we can't understand ourselves, and that're always calling on Tito because Tito is your spiritual role. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134097	You've been hit. 718th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134098	On behalf of the legislator, I would like to draw attention to the amendments of the regular No. 718 to regular No. In 729, amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is a form of political action by citizens. We therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134099	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, a respected representative of Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134100	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Let me point out one particular thing about how what you predicted is actually very bad if this law goes into effect as you would like. So, if this law comes into force and applies to the financing of the already electoral promotions of these next European elections, try to give us an answer as to how the Minister of Finance that you provided for within a month will adopt a sublegal act, a regulation which will regulate and certain issues related to the election promotion without e-consultation in the middle of an election campaign. How is that possible? How they, all political parties, will respect the independent lists that must comply with the law and sublegal regulations during the electoral promotion where there are serious sanctions, how they will respect this when you have provided that, under this law, the Minister of Finance must, within a month, adopt a sublegal act, a regulation. The regulation should, therefore, come in, but really right in the middle of the election promotion. I really can't understand, here I really can't understand, not just as a representative, as a professor, how did you imagine it? How can we in the political parties of the independent lists that will compete, so which rules will we look at, which legal provisions, which sublegal provisions, now exist some rules according to, of course, the existing law, sanctions that you foresee are very serious, that is a total violation of the rule of law because we will not know what norms to apply, so you can't go in the middle of the election.../Are you asking for a vote?/...to change the rules of the game. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134101	719th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134102	Thank you very much. Here comes the secretary, I know she's in a lot of trouble, I know she'd love to call a referendum on the protection of our waters, not that river Cetina. We give Cetina source to foreign investors who have a monthly concession for 5.00 kn, which is one farm with several cattle throats spent one larger household. Well, the referendum is the basis of democracy, direct democracy. I wish that instead of a secretary who had been here all night, came the hero of the referendum, brave man Lovro Kuščević or perhaps he was somewhere fishermen down, he was all night under the jubilee, sleeping warmly, comfortable there was no man who made chaos towards civil initiatives, but the people would wake up, not this flame will easily be extinguished. I said last night Lovro Kuščević spills this flame of freedom with gasoline, this is gasoline what you do. We gave you resistance tonight, yesterday, now I don't know how many hours, 30-40 hours, we gave you resistance as the only organized force of opposition in HS. The SDP has agreed with you, is that he has not agreed with you, you are the same, as Shakespeare says so, as Budimir Loncar says they have infiltrated from the top of the state into all the institutions of their people. The referendum is the mother of freedom, the mother of democracy, the undertaker and the murderer of that mother is Lovro Kuščević and therefore I ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134103	The 720th Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134104	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, here's another example from this law of what absurd solutions there are to what you predict. You have the i.e. We currently have a referendum initiative that is under way. So, a referendum initiative of the Trade Union which, therefore, announced the decision to call, on the collection of signatures for the Pension Insurance Reform Act, published in one daily list, therefore, I assume that the initiative opened a jury account that could receive donations, however, it is all in accordance with the existing legislation, the referendum law, but when you insist on it being applied immediately the day after the publication in the National Journal, that this would reflect on a union initiative that is under way, where citizens and legal persons may have donated to that trade union initiative and the organisational committee, certain funds, but they did not know that they would need to make an example of a grant contract greater than 5.00 kn, that they would have to make statements that they did not have unsettled obligations to other entities and that had not yet been published in the law. It is inadmissible, therefore, that the rules that have not yet come into force apply to it and that is why I am therefore asking, of course, for the amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134105	721st Amendment of MP Hrvojo Runtic, he is gone. 722th Representative Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134106	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I welcome our secretary of state, ours from the Croatian government, and the government is ours. So, the minister did not come to ask him these questions, because it is obvious that this legislative proposal has been made quite unsettling, that there are unspeakable things here, not to say, not to use some more difficult word, but ambition is clear, therefore, and the goal, and that is to calm down, to put under the control of the referendum as a way of expressing the democratic will of the people, or citizens, self-organised, so I believe that you, I believe, believe that this law and these solutions, despite all the illogical and difficulties that exist here, are going to achieve the goal, and this is a success in disabling the referendum statement wherever it is necessary and at whatever stage it wants to do so. I don't know why you don't understand that strangling that possibility or that tool is democratically actually suppressing the people's will, the people feel it, and it's simply an enemy atmosphere, one misunderstanding permanently between regimes and citizens, it's definitely a bad situation, and I think that for those who are not inclined to refer to the referendum there was much more beautiful and quality. Solutions, requesting a vote, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134107	A fellow Grmoy has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which member is injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134108	Dear Vice President, I have to react, I'm looking at employees of HS who are working here. You've hurt both the Constitution and the labour rights and human rights because over 30 hours, so you can't give half an hour to people to rest, react to respected secretary of state. [[/Intruder: Which member is injured?]] At least [[Employer: A colleague...]] from some solidarity... [[Employer: A colleague...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134109	with women here at HS [[Intruder: A fellow Grmo...]] No, I didn't hurt you. [[Intruder: abuse the institution of violation of the Rules of Procedure...]] ............................................................................................................ [[/Intruder: You're getting a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134110	than Mr. Orlovic said they were immaterial. politicizing official rights... [[You've been warned.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134111	Intruder: Another reminder you have now/... Please, the 723rd Amendment of Honored Representative Ante Prenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134113	Thank you, Vice-President, Your Honor, for the Secretary of State, what is the resulting fear, so they're raising the price for the allowable financing of the electoral promotion? Why suddenly, in light of the EU elections, we have a parliament raising up to 4 million kunas to election promotions. But it takes so many piar articles, marketing activities to change this picture of the Republic of Croatia, to make it beautiful and to come days after European elections, they will also come Monday when we return to the harsh reality. A reality that says 150 people leave Croatia, not more young than completely all families. This is what HDZ is obviously afraid of, so the censorships are rising, we also see for the presidential elections up to 8 million kunas for the election promotion, up to 8 million kunas, and I think they should be reduced, because if they do a good job ruling what they are afraid of, what they are afraid of, but so much needs to be painted, but so much should be thrown into the eyes to correct Croatia's reality. Young people move out, industrial production falls, economic growth stagnates, economic growth is twice as bad as our competitive neighbouring countries, these are your mathematical facts. And no matter how much you lift the census, know that one day, there will be change. And how big changes in Croatia where many politicians who today pass such laws, who act like this They'll find themselves safe, of course. [[/Intruder: Are you asking for a vote on this?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134114	The 714th Amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is gone. 725th Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134115	The Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs, what is currently happening in the Croatian public is that with every minute, with every hour you spend and insist on this pointless debate, you are actually showing how much you are addicted to giving me more, how much you care about those 2 million and something million and all the time, every minute and every hour that shame grows. I think you're well aware of that and we didn't make fun of yesterday when I said both the respected secretary of state and the chairman of the sweat you'll sweat for that 2.3 million, you'll only sweat for one reason because it's not what the citizens of Croatia need, which is in their interest and what they've given voice and trust to you or any other politician, you'll sweat and sweat and you'll last and you'll see more and the shame will grow. What you've been doing for the last 30 and a few hours isn't normal, and if you don't know what to do I invite you for 20 times take your pre-election program from 2016, open whatever page you want from that pre-election program and do something. If you'd done the same thing for anything and discussed it for 30 hours, people would appreciate you. This way your cheek only sinks and will not correct that 2.5 million kuna or any PR and no crying that you will distribute for it in Croatia, believe me Of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134116	726th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134117	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary, as we can see, it is almost 6 hours but the great reformer does not come to defend this quick miracle from the law, the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. In the part of the amendment that has actually been proposed, it is necessary to delete it, because that part that was proposed should be an integral part of the referendum law. In fact, the referendum initiatives that occur, at local level, either at national level, to actually bring citizens together on a particular idea and actually start a self-initiative change, this change can be small, it can be bigger, it can be as I said at local or regional or national level, actually these citizens may not even know each other. Why would someone if they loved the environment know someone who signed an initiative in Osijek or Rijeka, and you're asking them here to organize them in a way that's actually what it is with political parties. What is also interesting here is that political promotions are actually being made in all elections, and so for these EU elections instead of 1.5 million kunas, you plan to vote this law before the European Parliament's vote is called itself and thus to secure your campaign. Well, the citizens are watching what you've been doing for the last 30 hours, and I'm sure, deeply convinced that it's not proud of you, because actually making it harder for the referendum initiatives and increasing more money for political parties to act just isn't what Croatia needs. I do. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134118	727th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134119	Vice-President, so here's another amendment ahead of us, another amendment that we are trying to improve this law, which can't actually be improved, but we put it in the focus of the Croatian public, that was actually our goal. So part of the amendment refers to these 4 million kunas, we consider this message that we send to Croatian citizens and that we sent to the political parties two years ago when we abolished 15 million kunas and assigned them to Croatian science, that we sent a message. This is now a completely different message from the ruling majority, so we know how much education and science on the sidelines we have cases of Mayor Bandic declaring himself an honorary doctorate of the Croatian University, that we are increasingly falling on the Shanghai University List and that we need to do something urgent. This law sends one bad message, and it's a message to pay off the essence of a politician, but that politician who has a party card and who breaks through other people's corpses and I have to, in a way, paraphrase my favorite book Animal Farm than George Orwell who says that all animals are equal, and some animals are more equal than others. So here I think, of course, of people, of parties, that some parties are more equal than others, we're not actually in some fair play and we're asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134120	728th Amendment of the Ines Strenja MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134121	Thank you. It's interesting to read the messages we get from people and then remember what my colleague Grumoja said a few hours ago, how it's good to be free and fight and be consistent with your ideals and fight for a better Croatia. And thank you for giving us the opportunity to explain to the citizens of Croatia this clearly and repeatedly for 30 hours that you want to take their money further and put it into the political promotion of major political parties. And that money, that money really is needed in many segments of our society. And in schools, which some are about to shut down because they're too small, they're not attractive in high school cards because it's terrible, what kind of standard parents have in many Slavonic villages, those who didn't leave, of course, and before they left for a long time it was hard for them. When children leave high school because they can't pay 1,000 or more kuna, or parents have to decide which child to go on and which one they won't. And it was supposed to give money to housing communities of children coming out of their homelands. Eternal coercion, whether to give some kind of apartment, some unit of local self-government, who will finance it, how it will be organised, those children at the age of 18 go to the street. And then after that, we have these social problems that we've been facing all those days, a society where more than 2,500 workers are missing. And that's why he needs the money. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]] I'll keep going, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134122	The 729th Amendment of MP Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134123	Your Honor, Vice President. You keep pushing this law, you don't want to give any breaks to the employees and employees of HS, you're exhausting people, although it's clear, given the number of amendments, that tonight it will end, vote, because you decided to vote tonight, I don't see why you don't give people some kind of break to rest, but it shows what your relationship with people is. Over the corpses you're willing to step on, just to fill the party register and that's what makes me very sad. People don't mean anything to you, and that's what we could see because you don't want to discuss at all the laws that concern our citizens. You do not want to put into debate at all the Microsolars Act, which our MOST law, which would make our households energy independent, you do not want to put to the debate and vote on the decision to declare an exclusively economic belt, which would protect our sea, our fishermen, but you must not, because your friend Tajani said that Dalmatia is Italian, that Istria is Italian, then the Adriatic Sea of our territorial waters are obviously, by you Italian, you have no problem with that. You don't want to put our judicial reform into debate at all. You don't want all those laws that we're referring to here at all, but when it comes to your party bag, when it comes to disabling the referendum, then there's no pause, then Knight Reiner faithfully obeys the orders that come from the court of Andrej Plenkovic. I'm looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134124	Yeah. You can stop it right now, drop the amendment, and it'll all be settled, we'll all be relieved of this harassment of yours. Here you go. Now let's get to the wheel. 730th Amendment, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134125	Thank you very much. You injured Rules of Procedure 238, where you told your colleagues to harass you here in the Parliament. So you're harassing this people, you're destroying this people, and because of this bag for HDZ to fill, you're harassing the whole country. The state fell apart, you live under the lights of Zagreb, you don't know what's in Dalmatia Zagora, you don't know what's in Lika, there are no people. You're harassing the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134126	Of course this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I won't give you a warning, but think about it when you talk about what you're talking about. We're going to Amendment 730 to the club of representatives of the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134127	The Honorable Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the legislator, I am showing myself about amendments of order. No. In 730 to 741, the same amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing and financing other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134128	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134129	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In a series of examples that we have talked about how bad this final bill proposal is, one example that says that it does not at all restrict the possible donations of legal and natural persons and what should be done because it is simply inadmissible not to put some roofed restriction on these donations and that, in fact, depending on how many elections you have in a year, this amount can be multipled so that a legal person can donate for an annual regular financing to a political party, 200 000 kuna, but since elections for the European Parliament can also be donated to 200 000 kuna, but since the Presidential elections can also be re-donated 200 000 kuna and so we come up to 600,000 kuna. And where's the restriction? That is why we have foreseen our amendments to limit the total annual donations of political parties and natural persons no matter how many elections took place in that year because, for example, next year you have a second round of presidential elections possible, so again you can donate and have regular parliamentary elections and who knows what all elections are. So each election actually multiplies funds that can be donated in addition to that annual regular financing of political parties and therefore requires a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134130	731th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134131	Thank you very much. You thoroughly and persistently harass the Croatian people. You have destroyed the perspective and future of the Croatian young man. Here I was holding half a liter of Cetina water, writing Cetina's water source 5 kn, which means that a liter of water is more expensive than oil, leaving the money, to which the concession is given, check from the source of Cetina. You're malpracticing the people because you've taken away his decision-making rights. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. Demographic breakdown. Undeveloped neighborhoods don't have pediatrician children. They don't have a radiologist in the Dalmatian Zagora. The hospital in Knin is without physical therapy, you won't enter the pool. I gave for physical therapy, a city of pride. You only come neatly to the alka, to the top of the prosciutto, to the leprechaun, and to the day of victory in Knin. You're messing everything up. There's still expenses behind you. Former mayor, the current secretary knows what the cost is. Huge. Don't do this to the people, harass the people in ties. When you go out to Knin, Sinj, Vrgorc, Imotski, so when they see you in ties, people, you mauled, you destroyed the perspective, you destroyed the right referendum. The only thing you want to charge your bag, HDZ's bag to court in Brussels, Tajani, Merkel, Vukic and all of your partners within the regiment's party's against the interests of the people Just what you say, I'm looking for. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134132	732nd Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134133	Mr. Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't know which times we're all repeating and pointing to the harmfulness of the proposed law in every way and every sense. Of course we can't convince you that you're not ready to give up, but we believe that we are following what's being reported in the media on a multi-hour debate on this law, in fact it becomes clear to everyone what the bill is about, what your real intentions are, which is why you're in such a hurry with this law and why it's actually happening that this House has been sitting without interruptions for more than 30 hours and why you intend to discuss these amendments until the very end and afterwards to vote. And you could simply tell us that this law will come into force as foreseen after the European Parliament elections are called, that it will not apply to the upcoming elections, that you will not want these additional millions to finance the election campaign and that in that case we would also withdraw a large number of these amendments that we are talking about today but you have not done so and that is why we are still discussing it. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134134	733rd Amendment of MP Hrvojo Runtic, gone. 734th Honored Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134135	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome the secretary of state, my colleagues and my colleagues. The referendum here is resolved, calm, calm, therefore, and there is virtually no concern that the ministry will again have to deal with a large number, these signed lists and seek a solution to get out of a possible referendum. It was added to this law, from here on, it was an opportunity to solve the referendum problem, announces and resolve, i.e. Taking into account the anti-referendum initiatives, however, time has been purchased. Meanwhile, citizens don't have a very nice view of things, they're dissatisfied, rescheduled, young people are leaving, but it's as if it's not some particular riga, because I haven't noticed, that it's high on the priority list, so the government or any ministry, because it's simply taking for granted the fact that the population, the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia, falls and falls, and the issue of demographic breakdown that comes, how it's going to be solved again, some kind of fire measures, however, from the strategy of strategic approach and no sign. I'll beg the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134136	Amendment of the 735th Representative Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134137	Thank you, Vice President. Perhaps the assembly is half-empty, or, that is, only the representatives of the Bridge, there it is, I see a Mr. from the HDSSB but the Parliament is very full. So according to the parliamentary halls, there are parliamentary majority deputies, and they are waiting very carefully for all amendments to pass to pass to pass this law. I will give them one proposal on the way, let them go to the government and let them discuss the oil, let them discuss the 3rd May, which is not discussed, and in which people do not know what, people who have no salary for 6 months and do not talk about it in the Croatian space politically, because this government is P.R. a government that has no power to make a decision at all on shipbuilding. And since most of them obviously don't know what they're going to do in this 30 hours now, I suggest they go 150 meters towards the government building, so let them talk about that problem, so at least we have some consensus, let them know, to the workers who are in Rijeka, in Pula, 6 months. Maltenes don't get paid. These topics, the topics of the rural area, which are not discussed, are therefore well-prepared to wait until midnight today for them to pass the law, which will allow them to finance election promotion in a larger form than they are now. To create a p.R. conjecture. fog, for various polls, call centres, all of this needs to be financed and therefore this law should be passed. If they are so confident in the good conduct of Croatia, why don't they spend zero kunas and go out to the citizens. If they're so ready and they believe so much in polls, which give them 28-30%. Absolutely. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134138	The 736th amendment is representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, which is not available. 737 MPs, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134139	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, it's time for citizens, after all these numerous hours, to tell them why it's all done. So, dear citizens, they give you 30 and a few hours here, by force breaking MPs, so they get 2, 3 million kunas and through those 2, 3 million kunas you will watch their smiling faces over posters all over Croatia. Now, this whole play they've performed, this whole battle with them and for their smiling faces, on posters for the next two months. which you dear citizens will watch. It's not your smiling faces, it's not your family, it's not your life, it's the crying. Well, remember this debate, remember these 30 and a few hours, when you see those crying. That's all it's about, it's sad, but that's what it is. But it won't work, I'll tell you again, it's not a matter of us blocking you these 30 hours and blocking you for a few more hours, as long as we can, just so we don't get those millions. We blocked you because you want to choke people's freedom, their right to decide. You want to choke their attitude, you want to make silence among the people, because you do not respond to free-thinking people. You won't be watching that movie. Whenever we have a chance, we'll stand up. And this has been a showdown exercise for you today. Of course I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134140	The 738th Amendment is a representative of Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134141	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, here is 6 hours, the parliamentary representatives of the ruling majority, walk, to the halls, but the minister, the great reformer does not come to this high building, means in the Croatian Parliament, so he does not come here, he has no problem not coming here, he is elected here and he no longer needs to come. He works separately from the people and whose interests does he work for? It works for that and the citizens could see, that actually all of this, these 30 hours, that you don't give up, you have marathon sessions and you see by portals, headlines, says, marathon session, it didn't happen, so big in the Parliament, and so, this one you made to be able to spend 4 million kuna for these eu elections, actually instead of 1.5 million kuna. So because of the 2.5 million kuna, you're doing all this. But at the same time, it is very important that this law be passed and complicated, elaborated and proposed a really complicated referendum initiative. Because now a referendum initiative is coming, the one about the age-limit for retirement. Well, then, just a little bit more confusing these people by which they, in fact, are supposed to be laws. And to make the matter more interesting, you will pass a law that will take effect not in 15 days from the day of adoption, as usual, but after the 1st day. This amendment, which I have applied for, in fact, to delete the article in question and, in fact, the aim is to warn the same that these provisions provided for in this article should be in the referendum law. And I will ask for a vote on the above-mentioned amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134142	The 739th Amendment is a representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here are fellow representatives of what is most unfortunate in all this, so our debate they didn't understand at all what we were talking about. So they consider it normal to increase their money, they even think that money should go from the state budget, says what has disputed, Mr. Kovac said there is nothing controversial about it, he finds even desirable. And he's actually thinking of himself, so he's suing parliamentary representatives and suing the terms of working in the Parliament. At a time when half of Croatia barely joins the end, so political elites, especially here by ruling on working conditions in the Croatian Parliament. So how many Croatian citizens would give their lives if they had such conditions as you do. How many nurses, doctors, doctors, teachers and professors would give people who work at the baustela to have conditions like us. So this is about a totally unrealistic picture of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia totally ignoring, so their opinions. They rely on that party army to vote for them because of certain syndukuras, and therefore I call on all citizens to see what is happening, to see how political elites govern their money. And I repeat again, the Most will ask to vote on this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134144	740th Amendment of the Ines Strenja MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134145	Thank you. Let's just continue to say, in fact, where are the money you intend to take from Croatian citizens and which you really shouldn't need if you believe in your success in the upcoming Europarliamentary elections, where it was to be spent. And I think it was necessary to spend time in order to introduce day-to-day surgery and one-day hospitals, where everything is needed and to reduce the number of hospitalizations up to 3 days, if this allows patient health to use rationally high technology that should be well spaced and available within the hour of travel from the place of stay to the place of treatment. We currently have a great lack of doctors in certain parts of Croatia and then we have a situation that there are no devices in certain cities but we also have doctors somewhere but there are not enough devices. So it's a completely wrong network made. The association of functional activities that has been promised over the past several years has not fully revived by Minister Varga and not only hospitals but functional activities and other levels also means a clear analysis of financial sustainability, reductions in acute stationary capacity because we know that the hospital system is the most expensive and increased bed capacity for prolonged, long-term and chronic treatment and palitative care. We have whole parts of Croatia where we don't actually have enough beds for physical rehabilitation. And then after one stroke, you have patients waiting a year to rehabilitate. But we'll talk about it later, I'm asking you to vote on this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134146	The 741th Amendment of the Representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134147	Dear Vice President, this has been a 26-hour statement of amendments and 32 or 33 hours since we've been here in the assembly. There's only a fellow Glavas of the ruling majority, no one from the opposition, he's probably called, probably to come, to back up, to fill the HDZ party bag. Let us remember what he said about HDZ, how the HDSB's fierce representatives attacked HDZ, Vladimir Seks, shared his instructions, everything was there, but now it needs to be played for HDZ, they need to be filled in by the party's register for these Euro elections. We have fought hard here today, we receive messages from all parts of Croatia, dear people, we are no heroes, so you are heroes who are still staying in Croatia and you are struggling to make this Croatia change, to be Croatia to the extent of every citizen of Croatia and we are only those who represent you, who we want to show that there are still people who are willing to fight, ready to fight this self-will HDZ, fellow Glavas here came from behind, I don't know which fellow Head here came from behind I don't know what his intentions are, but I'm not afraid of him even when this one is behind my back. So, it's clear here, it's clear here what the intentions of HDZ are, I'm sorry that the secretary of state has spent these 20 certainly hours. Here with us, I demand a vote. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134148	742. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134149	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the legislator of this law, I declare amendments from 742 to 753, the same amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is a major political action of citizens, and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134150	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134151	Thank you very much, here's a little bit of an hour away, so I can see that the distance wasn't made here just a time distance but basically in content it's all the same. A whole series of provisions that need to be sanctioned by all those who are unwanted. Now that we look at all this list of how much a man can do wrong, it doesn't look like he needs to run anything, is that even if you're running into one of these provisions, you'll definitely come across it. We're here with those provisions regarding a referendum that really expresses the strongest will of a large number of people who need to run some change we tried to sort of get out of this so there's no obstacle, but here's the obstacle being put on. So it's no longer at 110 meters with obstacles this seems to me every foot is some obstacle that anyone who's the initiator has to face. And we're actually talking very specifically here, we're talking about people who need to be the Croatian leaders, who really need to be on behalf of those who want to represent that position, they should actually be sanctioned in particular, if they blink wrong, if they think in the wrong way, and it seems to me that it's always somehow if the rulings don't fit they'll find one of these points here that will be able to interfere with their work, and of course we need to understand what's bitter and those people who have been struggling for days to collect signatures and then someone says, but here we've studied it, so we've found all the irregularities but you can't see, because only we can see it, and the Privacy Regulation is the only relevant to determine for everyone else. I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134152	743th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134153	Thank you very much. The referendum directly decides to separate the tribunal from political financing, political.../incomprehensible/... and that's the story of the whole. However, the undertaker of the Lovro Kuštević referendum who has no courage to come here but sent a woman who sat here all night, she and her colleague, he's like some sort of man who writes faces, puts bridges down, didn't collapse bridges. I've always fought for the right to a referendum, here's Mr. Glavas here when he was, asked to defend himself from freedom, then in Sinj, no one's been able to buy the signatures, I've come, I've found a picture with my friend, he's gathered 1,500 signatures to hand him over to the Shakespeare who's been stalking him and Gotovina, he's arrested, and I remember the location with the stilt when he's beating up on that HDZ board, and today with the Shakespeare indivisible, love, inseparable, it's amazing love, and I really think that man defends himself with freedom. I remember the chocolate he wore you said Anto Djapic so you said that he wore chocolates wouldn't look like me. So I'm always a man to stand behind a man and not be ashamed of this and when I asked for President Mesic's office to be lifted, who attacked me by Branimir Glavas. Napa Branimir You think a man has no problem and I respect Croatian defenders, but the fact is that we always have to stand behind what we're fighting for I'm sure you will. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134154	The 744th Amendment of Representative Robert Dolnjak, he's gone. 745th representative of Hrvojo Runtic, gone. 746th Representative Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134155	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, and I welcome everyone, of course, and nothing I will do now, and I will beg for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134156	Next amendment of MP Ante Pranic 747.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134157	Thank you, Vice-President, one part of this law refers to the introduction of a census of minimum for cities and municipalities of funding, in terms of financing of political parties represented in municipal and city councils. It's probably that form of decentralisation and the downsizing of powers to local self-government units in decision-making because now we're imposing another ai word census, even though we've been concrete since 2015, '16, '17, '18. Here we have a meeting of the City Council on Monday where it is for 1 kuna, if I don't know if this law will come into force, then there is again for the political parties who are represented in the council for one kuna because we are thus simply implementing one policy, a policy of equality according to those other policy options that are not represented, for example, in the city and municipal councils, that they have equal equality as those who are represented. This is one example, and let's say under quotes, decentralisation where something is being introduced again from the state level, which city councilors must vote on, and mayors and commissioners must propose in the draft budget and may come next year in 2020 ahead of local elections in 2021, so these censorships rise by 5 times. Now we see how it rises overnight from 1.5 million kuna to 4 million kuna, which guarantees that next year there will be no changes to the law where only in the light of local elections will all raise these rates that apply to cities and municipalities. And it's not a problem 1,000.00 kn, 2,000.00 kn, the problem is constant. Introducing, of course I'm asking. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134158	The 748th Amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, is gone. 749th Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134159	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues, I would ask that the bill be withdrawn because it is disastrous, but you will not do so. You've been pushing a catastrophic bill for 30 hours. I honestly believe that you knew what was waiting for you, you probably wouldn't even try, but now it's too late, but never mind, everyone learned a lesson, citizens learned a lesson, and you learned a lesson. The citizens now know what you care about, and now you know how much we won't stand down, so if that meant that we gave up 30 and a few hours, why not? I honestly wish that those 30 and a few hours were spent on high-quality bill proposals, so that something stays behind us, that when we go public, we can say, you know that, and it's brought to HS, your life will be better, but unfortunately it's not. There's one good thing that's still happened. You show people that if you have a goal and you have the will to win. And maybe that's the most troublesome thing for you because you've managed to sleep and make hopeless people in the Republic, and these are their examples where they see that you're vulnerable and that they can get you and that it's time to get up. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134160	750th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134161	Dear Vice-President HS, a respected secretary of state, I must again point out that here is Minister Kusčević and has sent you here with this law which is deeply controversial since it actually limits the referendum initiatives in many ways. What the minister's position on the referendum initiatives shows several times, he also showed before he knew how many votes he had and what he said "who loses has the right to be angry" as if he were competing with citizens. So, for you, no referendum initiative obviously can succeed, not while you're here, and through this bill, actually through complex procedures, that's why you took care of it. You prescribe the same conditions, so, for political action of parties and those who gather only accidentally, means, in one thing, if they want to prevent the ecocid, if they want to prevent some of the problems they have at local level, you want to make them a party, and they don't actually have organisational, administrative and all other capacities. I'm extremely glad that citizens today see that if you care enough that you can actually vote everything, everything can be organized, administrative, bureaucratic barriers actually don't exist because if it's in the interest of you it's going to be, and all those stories, but then I can also remember all those years you promised and realize that you might not have told them the truth, that maybe you weren't honest enough with them when you told her, that you needed an analysis. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134162	751st Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, this law limits the referendum initiatives, not only those of the national ones, but also local ones. So, in fact, in Croatian political history we did not have almost or very little we had local referendums, therefore, not because people would not want to plead on a particular subject, but are such legal obstacles and so are administrative obstacles that it is almost impossible. With this law, it'll be even harder. We believe that local referendums, referendums concerning citizens living close by, are crucial to the lives of citizens of a particular local environment. For example. If there was a referendum on the Marinescina Waste Management Centre, it would never have happened, this Marinscina today is making huge losses to the local community and saving millions and millions of kunas. So, the referendum as the most excellent form of public declaration is the flow of democracy. This law of democracy is a knife in the back. If a law is implemented that gives the relative winner the award terms, it will be a death for democracy in Croatia. So we as advocates have the right and the duty to fight such initiatives with all democratic methods, this is a democratic method and we are asking as well for all other amendments to be put to the vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134164	Amendment 752 of Ines Strenja MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As you can see, we're not giving up. The MOSTs have well understood what their role is in this House and we are proving it persistently. We were persistent even when we had to fight for honesty and justice in Croatia, when we did not agree to overrule and when we asked for new elections with honor. We have fought for many of the laws that some of you have voted against, some you have never put on benches but we have also fought against the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament which you have further disabled what we have chosen and that is to speak freely in this assembly. And we came back to this last one. To the back of the line. We are fighting for what the citizens of this country have the right to do, we are elected here, we represent all Croatian citizens, we represent all the opposition tonight as you can see, for over 30 hours we have been fighting here, we are talking about 888 amendments and we are passing on the message of what the citizens want and it is no longer wanted to pay for political propaganda of political parties, not more than what is now, on the contrary, it should be reduced but it is obvious that the other members of the opposition are no longer interested. But we don't care if they're gone either. We've sent our message, this behavior of yours is unacceptable as it is unacceptable what you're breaking with this bill of yours, which is a referendum initiative. The ones that will come like that. Syndicals, those which were and which you managed to strangle by showing falsely that the signatures were not valid. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134166	The 753rd Amendment of Agent Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134167	Dear Vice President, it will be interesting here when you call at midnight, when Branko Bacic is nervously on the phone, collecting most of the phone just to get a bigger party's register, this will be and will enter history means that at midnight, the amendments will be voted on only to make one party's financial benefit. I wonder how the HDZ coalition partner will vote today. How will the CNS vote today on this case, they probably want them to vote, because their barns are full, they're full of money, we'll see how the HDZ vote, we'll see how the minorities vote today on this issue, we'll see how all the other MPs vote, will you give the HDZ 2.5 million kuna, or will you push for that money to remain Croatian citizens? That's the real question for all of you tonight and that question is being asked in front of you. And I have to tell you that the entire Croatian public is looking at you, all eyes are on you, watching whether you support HDZ or supporting Croatian citizens who are sending us messages of support from all over the country, meaning from the far east to the south, means to our Istria, too, and everyone is here to support us in this fight, to stop a party who has never had enough money even though she has participated in many affairs and even though she has black funds, so they're also asking for this legal money so that we can iron out this broken picture in public. I invite you all dear friends to follow this fight and all parliamentary representatives to oppose this, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134168	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We move to the 754th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please the Secretary of State to show about amendments 754 to 765 since they are identical content, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134169	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. On behalf of the promoters, I am aware of the amendments from regular 754 to 765, the amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law that regulates and finance other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134170	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134171	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary, I know that you stayed in one position yesterday where a man should not behave and especially if your superior in a discriminatory position, did not appear, here 30 hours we debate, the hero Lovro Kuščević, again I will repeat, graver of the referendum, the man who euthanized direct democracy, the right to direct decision as guaranteed by the Constitution. Constitution guaranteed. When we talk about the referendum then we are also talking about the referendums so far, I was an activist but 400,000 signatures that someone crushes these people, spits out, so we here asked Lovra Kuštević to tell us where the signatures are invalid which he declared or to call a referendum on fair electoral law. And besides, if he was afraid and if it's true, our law here could come in the process if HDZ isn't afraid of it. However, neither HDZ nor SDP showed the will to amend the Electoral Law and to euthanise the referendum. When we talk about the referendum, then we want to see it as a hard-earned freedom, and that is why I expect the chairman, Mr Brkic, to oppose this law where nothing simply brings Croatian citizens, peasants, workers, farmers, to HDZ alone. And they're arguing for 30 hours to fill their own bag and to serve Jucker who's pinching our prime minister and for what he's doing, I'm asking him to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134172	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the 755th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134173	So we're here for 30 hours where we stopped and we've given resistance, the unexpected resistance to the ruling structures that have been executed because they don't know at all today it's the tribal of the vote at noon, they don't even know when they're going to vote, the president of the Republic of Croatia, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic who is now absolutely under the influence of Andrej Plenkovic and the greatest politician of all time, so we'll take it from when the Croatian history is known, Jandrokovic who he sang to you has gone, with whom you have become presidents, from Sanader, and he said goodbye to Sanader, so Jadranki Kosor came and welcomed her, so it was with Karamark, so it was with Plenkovic. Let's go. Those guys who didn't get votes as far as I got my village today run you, Mr. Brkic, you're a defense attorney and a colleague of the Head of Defense, I believe he stopped in the '90s. And before the people, so do you fellow Brkic, and resist, vote against, stand by the referendum, with the right of the referendum, this is Lovro Kuscevic, who hid under a warm bed last night while here, Mrs. Josipo Rimac left his wife all night to defend what is indefensible, indefensible. I'm sorry that he left you like that last night, and you know that everyone who's in trouble has been sent here as Mr. Millian Brkic as vice president of the assembly, so do you, Mrs. Rimac. That is why I expect and therefore ask to vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134174	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. We're moving on to the next Amendment 756 of our fellow Downworlders. The 757th esteemed colleague Hrvoje Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134175	Thanks, here's a good day, good evening in fact, I noticed here walking down the halls now that some halls have turned off the lights, which I'm commending because it's always kind of getting on my nerves when I see that the lights are on all over the corner, the air conditioners are working all over the place, and who would pay for it all, but this is commendable, so it should be saved. And this is how it should be saved, and on these things you don't, you find the best agency, you have, like, these little agencies run by young talented people who have affordable prices that try to break through on the market, so they do it by having more competitive prices. The point is that in fact, we want more money for the pre-elections, for the political promotion means for election campaigns, for the jumbo posters, for all these huge classic ads that cost a lot more than you could afford in today's digital time. And we actually want to just, look, so maybe even say this, that in principle here I am personally, I don't mind in principle that, that political parties spend more money on political promotion when Croatia is once I don't know at the level of Switzerland, and that won't be a problem for anyone. If people will have an average salary of ten thousand kunas or more, then who cares about political parties then they use 4 million kunas for political promotion. What we want right now is better laws for our citizens and not for these laws to be patched up, but for them to be concrete laws. Thank you, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134176	I thank my esteemed colleague. 758th Amendment of Honored Fellow Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go, colleague Dobrović. You're giving up the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134177	Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134178	Thank you very much. 759th Amendment of Honored colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134179	Thank you, Vice President, here's just to agree, can we have a little peace, as far as this law and the amendment is trying to sort out a law that is irreparable in terms of decentralising the state under a new introduction system for cities and municipalities to finance political options. We see now that there is an extremely large increase of 7.5 million, 4 million kunas for the presidential campaign from 4 million to 8 million kuna, so if someone is ready to increase, it is up to 4 million kunas over paper that raises the question of how much it is willing to spend without paper or on black, under the table, yes, that's right, Mr. Glavas. If the government is doing a good job, and if people don't have to spend a good living, people would choose them again, but there are obviously so many problems in Croatia, from going young people to health care that is literally on appliances, destroyed shipbuilding, falling industrial production, low economic growth rates and administrations that last reformed during Maria Teresa. There is still no paper available, and the digitisation in Croatia is based on the system to take your cell phone and you call the officers when you call in to speed up the process. It is digitisation in Croatia, but neighbouring countries have gone very far ahead, and instead of now discussing 24 hours or 30 hours, for a new strategy for Croatia's development since 21-27, to see how we will digitise processes or to make a significant difference towards the EU, today it all actually comes down to that as soon as possible these amendments are cracked to vote at midnight on the law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134180	I thank my colleague Pranic. Thank you. We move on to the 761st amendment, since there is no colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, the respected vice president of HS God Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134181	Honorable chairman, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. There's no point in asking you to withdraw the law after 30 and a few hours, that's clear to me, but I won't give up on repeating all the time, as long as I have time. You've presented us with a disastrous bill. You've given us a bill that doesn't apply at all to any group in our society. And besides, it's only for you, you've made a series of catastrophic mistakes in it. You've given the opportunity to entangle people, you've opened the door to corruption and major financial resources, you've taken away the right of the mayors and mayors to decide council fees, and even if the councilman doesn't want to receive compensation, you've forced him to. If he wants to be constructive to his local self-government, to donate a council fee, he can't anymore. Asphyxiate the referendum, it's all contained in this bill of yours. Just keep quiet all the time, waiting for it to go away. You have no right to take people's freedom. You have no right to take away their position and their right to an opinion and the right to speak, the right to decide. And you take that from them, creating administrative obstacles to the referendum initiatives. You have no right to do that. I demand a vote under this law, this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134182	Thank you. I thank my esteemed colleague. 762. Amendment of Honored colleague Sonja Cikotic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134183	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. I am very sorry that there is no great reformer here to come and defend this law itself, but has sent you here to defend something indefensible. Yes, in fact, this amendment I have made consists of the fact that the article in question should be deleted. It should be deleted because a series of these articles relating to the financing of the referendum, i.e. only the legislation of the referendum through the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, should be deleted. It is precisely all of these provisions that should be deleted because the new Law on Referendum is coming and, in fact, in this new Law on Referendum should be attributed in detail, explained and actually put into place for citizens to be able to cope. What is particularly important to stress is that this law, apart from proposing or ensuring an increase in political propaganda or finance, it kills a referendum because it actually makes this referendum initiative more difficult, in fact, further tightening it, or it will then be more complex in terms of the way it is financed, the way it collects and other things. What remains unclear is that you persist 30 hours after this debate begins, you insist on it, to vote it out and actually talk about one thing. It is very important to us, but all Croatian citizens know it, it is very important for us, of particular importance, that, in fact, for the promotion, we do not get 1.5 politically It's $4 million. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134184	My dear colleague. We move on to the next amendment No. In 763, a respected colleague, Mark Sladolev, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in this debate, I often quoted some books, so they're always my inspiration, so I also quoted the Orwell Animal Farm, that all animals are equal and that other animals are more equal than others. However, there is another book that inspires me when I talk about this law, which is the Lord of the Rings, i.e. a desire for power or power. So that desire exists in every man. So, when that desire becomes the desire of the system, therefore, the desire of the political elites, then the people is in trouble. Reference initiatives, so whatever they are, HS should in some ways support them. I think the election law in the Croatian public needs to be discussed. That it is a democratic censorship that we can, as a democratic society, of course, explain in a democratic dialogue and I do not see the reasons, therefore, and what is good about this initiative, although it has been brought down, in my opinion, in an illegal way, to open this topic. So, in the Croatian democratic society, themes should be opened, topics that are not favourable to the political elite, which are not favourable to the government, because, in my opinion, the government is doing better. But here we had one fact that proturerefendum initiatives were more favourable than the referendum initiative because the government was behind them. And the government has huge resources, it's got media, and I don't think it was a fair fight. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134186	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev. We're moving on to the 764th Amendment of Honored colleague Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134187	Thank you. So what you've given us is an opportunity for us to see in these 30 and a couple of hours finally show who the real opposition is in this assembly. And everyone could choose because life is always a choice, not fate. We know why we are chosen, we are chosen to respect our people and to represent our people and perhaps this money that you will legally take to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is less important than what you will take from them by disabling the referendum initiatives, that may be the biggest problem. A people who must have the right to decide their fate, the course, the direction they're going, you've made it impossible for them. And as I said, that I'm in your position, all the luck that I'm not, maybe someday I'll be, 300,000 signatures are a sign, a sign that this people want to make a statement, whether it's an initiative that we agree with or not, world-famous close or not, that's a message. Playing with 5,000 or 10,000 signatures more and less is playing with your people. The people may be inert, they may need a lot of time, but perhaps the people will remember. At this point, a lot of people who think differently from you have already gone, unfortunately, to warm themselves up under some other person's sun, but they're looking at this country, too. They're not exactly that happy out there. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] And maybe they'll give you the right message when they get back. [[Intruder: Dear colleagues...]] I'm looking for a vote on this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134188	Thank you. We're moving on to the 765th Amendment of Honored colleague Nikola Grumoje, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134189	Thank you, Vice President, you also proved to be the only reasonable vice president of HS yesterday. Yes, colleague Dobrovic, it turned out that way, and otherwise, I'm all, I can say all the praises for Vice President Brkic as to his conduct, so in that sense I've already made certain statements for the media and I stand behind it, it was confirmed yesterday, so when the vice president realized what the circumstances were, he gave a certain break, given that he played and the team we all love to look at and finally here we watched this second half in which Croatia turned, eventually won, so here I think it was really the only thing that was really normal. And we've had the situation of Vice President Reiner who doesn't want to interrupt the session, it's not so much for me, I've been here more and I'm used to 30 hours, I'm tired anyway, I can't be more tired than I am, but I'm sorry about these people, I'm sorry about this adrenaline and motive, and I don't think they have any more motive to sit there and I know that it's very, very hard and I feel sorry for it, I'd like to break up a little session so that people can relax, maybe freshen up a little bit, I think that would be wise, but it's obviously the intention of us fighting, but now we've made them make it so late in the night, and for that to know that the real Republic, don't think that they't talk about it, watch what you're doing and what you're going to make this law. I'm looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134190	a respected colleague of Grumoji in these fine words. I'd love to take a break, but if I take a break, then we'll leave even later or less, so the sooner we finish, the more citizens watch the HS session. We are moving to the 766th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please the Secretary of State to show about the amendments of the regular No. 766 to 777, since the amendments are identical content, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134191	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Representatives and MPs, on behalf of the Proposer of this Law, for the amendments of the Regular No. 766 to 777, amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is a form of political action by citizens. We therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134192	Thank you for showing up. In the name of the club, dear colleague of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134193	On behalf of the club, I think it's time to talk about our citizens who are watching and who really, really hear how you treat them. And they'd tell you, there came a fall, a cold wind blowing, the misery beats me in the desert in someone else's all I had left there to dress there, there, ah in my homeland, where the city beneath the hill rises our famous rejuvenations there my luck was darkened so that they would never branches to me ever again. Good-bye, father and mother. Your child is plagued by hunger and misery. My heart is poisoned with pain. Goodbye and you whose lovely image the spirit follows me like a sweet shadow. Good-bye Branko brought us flowers, no luck, there remains a memory, good-bye paradise oy, that this storm of my tears to you to create them with a pearly greeting and in your tea tree of stress, goodbye to Branko my soul without you, my death is a terrible burial, and freedom in that foreign land is more difficult than slavery, goodbye to you being fields and valleys, parish halls and rolling mountains, dense forests, terrible vineyards good-bye to you, and the Adriatic sea. God, when my thirsty breasts will get drunk in Croatian air. Homeland, when will your sun warm up your faithful son? This is what our citizens who are out of the country think, and those who are here, think why you're doing this to all of them. [[Intruding Brkic: I thank my esteemed colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134194	Thank you. We're moving on to the 767th Amendment, the esteemed colleague of Mira Bulja, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134195	Thank you very much. Yeah, we get a lot of support from citizens and that's something that cheers and gives hope we resisted. So I call on all associations, primarily citizens' initiatives, any of these now, trade unions and those who are a referendum and all others, regardless of the worldview to join in and give resistance to this authority that essentially set the last nail in the box of referendums. The referendum and which essentially broke our constitution which was hard to gain. Freedom is hard to gain. At the moment we have it started here in the assembly, when the tils took away our power, essentially, the power of a parliamentary representative, as a representative body, as a center of decision on this home, then changed our rules of procedure. Now they're moving on, journalists, pressure from the police on the mayor's orders. On HTV, like DORH, HTV presses charges against its journalists. So the situation is not good, the situation is chaotic, but without the people, there's nothing we can do. And we have an obligation to restore pride and dignity to the people, all together, but I have just received a call and two girls are a coal of nature, left, one Iris one Ingrid and says for our dear Mostovites, hold on, and since it's also the first day of spring, I will give, I'm sorry I don't have a third bouquet, would give the secretary, meaning to the two Mostovs, who have endured 40 hours of struggle for every man's dignity, fighting for direct democracy. So two girls, that's why I'm asking you to vote and please. You're Milliana Brcko's attorney, you withdraw this law. [[Upadica Brkić: Thank you, dear colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134196	Thank you. I thought you had one bouquet for me, but there will be another time. We are moving to the 768th Amendment of colleagues of Podolnjak, the 769th Amendment of the Honored colleague Hrvojo Runtic, please welcome fellow Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134197	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's a little crowded in here. I just remembered a photo from a few weeks ago, I think it's a good description of what I was talking about all night and yesterday. And that's the picture she took during the campaign now in Lika Senjska County. There was also a video on TV, but the photograph is always more impressive to me, where the diameter Plenkovic is walking through the city with a light. They were all tiesd up in suits, makeupd, around them James Bonds, theirs, armed to the teeth, and in front of them a ten-foot-old man, who so in humble clothing walks and acts as if he's embarrassed now that he's in the frame in front of that team. And that's the difference. So these are our people whom you see at every turn when you come out. Here I am now outside, at every step you can see, someone who can see it's not easy, it's hard for him. And then when you compare it to this image of diameter and its scrolls and when we put it in this context, it's just not fair. It's just not fair for people to live like that and we're raising budgets for political parties so it can be spent on political campaigns. It's just, it's not fair. I say again, I wouldn't mind, if everyone lived better and then spent more. But people live badly. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134198	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 770th Amendment, a respected colleague of Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134199	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, that these two flowers of two girls, that's one beautiful gesture, I don't think it's fake, but I think it's honest, because people just feel when the atmosphere of acceptance is created, the atmosphere that opposes the oppression of will, which opposes the closure of political and political structures, the creation of castes, which are actually just taking care of themselves, so they're raising certain incomes, so they regulate things on money, income and of course, such a turn to themselves is something that is very fast and easy to notice. On the contrary, if we went to build a political system, which would first be designed in a different electoral law, which would be completely open to the referendum as the most direct way in expressing civic will, this is the way to creating a healthy, happy country, in which people could work from their work. Not to work, to live from your work, therefore, to live on the fruits of work, thereby ensuring the dignity of man is assured, and that is what we should all strive to do here in that sense. I'm glad we're changing these laws if possible. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134200	We are moving on to the 771th Amendment of Honored colleague Ante Pranic, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134201	Thank you, Vice President. Many citizens who look at us would say that this is how the debate lasts 30 hours and a few hours on the state budget as a fundamental act of state development. And now we're talking about a law that HDZ wants to push through, which is the basic law of HDZ survival, which is the budget for one state, it's this law for HDZ, but also for the SDP to understand, for two major parties. I see a statement from HDZ saying MOST's representatives have been constantly discussing with themselves since yesterday afternoon 888 amendments that have been submitted exclusively to the Law on the financing of political activities for obstruction. Well, of course, the objective of obstruction, the destruction of that law that you want to legally enable yourself to double, triple in certain areas the money for election promotion and say they're arguing with themselves, so my people, in this 50-year-old Republic. When this continues HDZ will be able to debate with itself because only citizens with HDZ membership cards will remain in this country. This is our reality, so look at the Red Cross in Vrgorec cannot be decided in Vrgorec, it is decided in Zagreb and we all know who decides and how it decides and can't pass a person highly qualified because he doesn't have a HDZ membership card, without saying that certain ministers call for individual candidates, and then best word to people who want to stay in Croatia, the reality of Croatia, take the HDZ membership card and stay living in Croatia... Well, almost. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134202	Thank you. We move to the 773rd amendment, since there is no colleague Ivana Ninčevič-Lesandric, a respected colleague, vice president of HS, God Petrova, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134203	Dear Vice-President HS, the respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, I will ask the same questions again this morning. Will the pensioners have a higher pension under this law? Won't farmers have a better life and work? He won't. Will entrepreneurs be able to work simpler? He won't. Will young people have more opportunities to get a job? He won't. Will the family have perhaps a better quality of life because of this? He won't. Could workers have better working conditions? He won't. Is this law likely to give the completed or blocked a new opportunity? He won't. Who did you help? Who have you been trying to help for 38, 39 hours? Just myself, and it's a tragedy, and I'm going to warn you all the time. You have not helped anyone but yourself, and therefore I strongly oppose the law amongst others and of course, I will also point out your asphyxiation of the referendum and your attempt to obstruct because you want to impose silence. Your president HS, your secretary said a year and a half ago that your biggest problem is social networks, you want to introduce censorship on the Internet, so this behavior is no stranger to you and let the citizens hear what is coming to them. Please vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134204	a respected colleague. We are moving to the 774th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134205	Dear Vice-President HS, the esteemed secretary of state, I wish that in fact as much as you spent sitting here listening to all the amendments, if you were working on public administration reform and that on those 20 projects, you caught that project developing human potential in which central employment is foreseen, it would be great for all young people in the Republic of Croatia would know that they have the same opportunity to actually get a job in the public sector. The Central Employment Project provides for a central job in which, by example, Epso would have the opportunity to actually get through his knowledge test to work in a certain public or state-owned company, and in such a way that we actually hire and that we absolutely depolitize public and public service, that it doesn't matter anymore because we send a message to young people, which is if you're the best, if you do the knowledge test, you'll enter the FER, if you best solve the knowledge test, you'll enter a PMF or already some other college, medicine, dentistry, law, and then when those kids graduate, we send them to professional training at 3.000,00 kn. What this project would ensure, and the money was provided for it, is that, in fact, through standardised tests throughout the Republic of Croatia, young highly educated and middle-educated people could access these standardised tests, these tests would actually carry 80% of the total knowledge and thus more phones, e-mails and everything else would not have to work, but would actually be depolitized. On this amendment, please vote.../Thank you/... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134206	We move on to the next amendment No. In 775, a respected colleague, Mark Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this amendment and this law actually predicts that units of local self-government, so that less than 3,000 kunas increase their amount to the promotional campaign. Now it's not clear to me that the municipality of 3,000 people, so I think it's, I don't know if we divide mathematically, it's about one hundred houses, I think it can go through in one day's walk, and now we're giving money, we're increasing money for a promotional campaign in one of those poor municipalities. What's specific about these municipalities is how our country works is that the only people who are practically employed in such municipalities are actually politicians. and actually politicians are providing themselves with a new mandate, so because practically there people are addicted to politics, so they're godfather ties and people just out of despair vote for it and maybe they don't even have any other option. And we are now in a closed circle of the Croatian political system where people are desperate to vote because they think that if another option comes, they will be fired. So they vote for some let's say, selfish reasons but what's unlike other political options, we at MOST fight for these people too. We also fight for people who don't vote for us, I think it's 400,000 people who have signed that the People's referendum decides, of course there are always different political options but we think it's for democracy good and that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134208	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 776th Amendment of Honored colleague Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134209	Thank you. I think that Matoš whose anniversary was, the 105th anniversary of March 17th, deserves to read this song to the end that says: The homeland, when your sun warms up your faithful son, the day will come, in front of my son's soul the sabers of Zvlamir flash, the rifles buzz, the banners of the canad I hear the thump of thunder, the day will come, oh and I will then rush home with a brave foot but until then goodbye sweet home, Croatia's lovely mother, goodbye. So all these years, there have been conditions for thousands of young people to leave this country and when we think that you might finally do something to stop this exodus and highly educated and workers and those who have had jobs here, even in the administration, looking for their place under the sun in some other countries, working in some other people's hospitals and workshops, then you bring these laws and you clearly tell them, and every single one of these local self-government will stand out more for political parties and it won't be for a warm meal for children and it won't be for a show card for children. And every big party will get even more money so they can send a more powerful and powerful message we're the ones who rule this country, but you know what? MOST sent a message in these 36 hours, MOST sent a message through 888 amendments and everyone heard that, and those who vote for the Most and who do not vote, are not important voters at all at this time, are important citizens who hear they can't do it anymore. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134210	Thank you. Please be careful in time, we're moving on to 777 respected colleagues of Nikola Grumoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134211	Your Honor, Vice President. He wants to push this out as soon as possible, but the resistance you've been given is surprisingly strong, and for you alone, I met my colleagues from HDZ, they said they couldn't believe it, they thought that my colleague Bulj and I would be here the last Mochikans to defend the line but here is the fight to the last man, all the representatives of the MOST club are here and we would be there by the end and the vote if you can organise it, it would be around 11 hours or even after that, we should calculate how many amendments there are 2 minutes, only counterpart Nincevic is gone, it couldn't be more, it's understandable and we'll still be there. So you won't be able to push this through as you thought, the whole of Croatia is watching what you're doing, what you're ready to do, I hear that in 21 hours you have a meeting of the ruling coalition, the phones are working, the hot lines are on fire, trying in all ways not to, and I have sympathy for my colleague Bačić, who has a difficult task to bring to the Croatian Parliament that should vote this law, as if it were, here's a good thing, says colleague Pranic, as if it's at least about the state budget but it's actually a party budget, a party register that's much more important to you than this state, because you're willing to rob this country of your party interests, and it's always a party in front of Croatia's your interests. Most Croatia is above all else, and it will always be and we will prove it here and here through this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134212	Thank you, dear colleague. We move to the 778th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please the Secretary of State to show about the amendments under regular number 778 to 789 since they are identical content, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134213	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, on behalf of the promoters, I am reading amendments from the regular number 778 to the regular number 789 and the same amendments are not accepted because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134214	Thank you. On behalf of the MOST Club, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134215	The MPs of the Most are in this Assembly, yesterday means eight o'clock, so it's about thirty-five o'clock they're here uninterrupted, and the debate itself started around three, so how much is it?, it's... The record, but we didn't stop here to show ourselves, we have the space, but to squeeze you together like a fist, always the hand is stronger when it's squeezed, you know it very well than when it's separated, give resistance, resist those who just watch how to fill their bag or cashier, and in this case, it's the Croatian Democratic Community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Em what Lovro Kuščević has autized the referendum, what makes it difficult for him to do this law, is that there should be no referendum at all, the financing of the referendum and the citizens' initiative, which is that against the procedure came to the debate, which is against the Constitution, but it is, you wanted to push it, you've tribalted today to vote on it at noon, go home, here's my colleague Babić was already supposed to be in, in, at home lightly, however, the order has come to wait, he must wait, but I don't know how he feels and how he will feel at his end down, in the Imot region when people ask him, so really that you voted to make it difficult for the referendum, direct democracy, but Croatia's hard to gain freedom, so I expect from the chairman Miljan Brkić that he will be asked about you, and I asked about him because of this vote. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134216	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. I'm moving on to the 779th Amendment of my esteemed colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134217	The people expected problems to be solved. I've been an activist for years, I've been fighting for the Sinjski birthplace survival that HDZ and Jadranka Kosor have extinguished, so they had to put pressure on him, I've been fighting for environmental problems, with workers, I've been through these some kind of activist stuff and I've been co-ordinator in a lot of referendums, and really the referendum is what the triba tends. I felt that the triba debated the things I asked the prime minister here, which is why teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia draw the highest profit, 42%, while there is 20% margin in the European Union, which is why they do not need a construction permit here, while in other countries Europe the triba building permit. I didn't get the answer, I didn't get the... Transport minister, it's been five months, no response, on the current clock. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know how much money that is? Now they want to get it through... Through, uh, through the Roads Act, where they will lose units of local self-government compared to today's law 500 million kuna, 500 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We fought here and for our mountain-mounted and undeveloped areas, remember Minister Žalac when she said better that Zagora had not given birth to you, and Zagora since she lost from Krka to Neretva, lost 100,000 inhabitants. The area is only Cetinske krajina area larger than Međimurje, and by the number of inhabitants of Lika-Senj County. Now imagine that Vrgorački end, Imotski, Kninski and Drinski, burned ground, but it's important your bag, which is why I'm asking you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134218	Thank you. I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We move on to the 781st amendment, since there are no colleagues of the Dolnjak, a respected colleague of Hrvojo Runtic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134219	Thank you. Comrade Bull, I suppose if I remember correctly, in fact, that's what this Mercedes minister told you, right? It's like that in your life, it's all coming back and it's all paying off. A little while ago, a colleague of Grumoja said that, that a party of HDZ representatives is expected soon, that he will have a meeting, so I suggest, I mean, it's getting smaller, but maybe here in the Assembly sometimes the Readers' Clubs should be held, for example, by a book reader. And instead of what I'm guessing is going on at those clubs, maybe we should just give it to the MPs, uh, like at school, you know, the lecturer, to read something, and then the next club talks about it. And here, if I can give one recommendation on the edge of Miroslav Krleža's mind, it would be great, to read maybe all the MPs, probably some are, but this one, there's just everything, I won't quote anything, but there's everything. Now I've been thinking about how to lose that contact with people who live in this country, and one image might well describe it, recently, or recently, for the last time, but on several occasions, I'm always going to Parliament to come here from this side of the Stone Gate, and I've seen more than once a black limo ride to the job of a representative, meaning a simple representative, say I'm just a representative, and I'm going on a tram, bring him a limo, and that's probably the beginning of that loss of contact with how people live, comes a limo to your house, bring you here, you don't have contact with people, live on a cloud, and you don't know what't even know what's going on. We should go trams and read the Krleža. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134220	Thank you, dear colleague Runtic. In that novel, as I recall, there's talk of resistance to the system, so resistance is a good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134221	And in this on the edge of your mind is talked about the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134222	Well, yeah, that's who I'm talking about. We are moving on to the 782nd amendment of a respected colleague, Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134223	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome everyone and the secretary of state. So this law brings a lot to political parties. Therefore, they are strengthened by various and diverse of course political work through higher amounts for promotion, through the chieftains of units of local self-government, etc. Of course, that money can be significantly better used and it is entirely wrong to place money to political parties. I think that if these money was re-routed, let's say, to work with children, we know that many parents have problems with children. I can't answer their needs whether it's an extra class, an extra class, whether it's some of their talents that they can't handle, so that kind of work with kids just multiplys and the results are great and they're small money. That's not all. Such small programs, which can develop locally in cities, municipalities and perhaps at the county level, could bear a terrible fruit in the matter of creating this pleasure among the people of satisfaction with the system. And listen under these circumstances, then parents make it easier to decide to expand the family, and here is a convenient demographic measure instead of strengthening the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134225	So I'd like to ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134226	Thank you. We move on to the 783rd amendment of respected counterpart Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134227	Thank you, Vice President. I am more interested in another detail of this law, which is the entry into force where we see that this law imposes a certain minimum of separation from the city budgets for the work of political parties. And now, let's say, specifically, the City of Vrgorac singles out 1 kuna, and now if this law went into effect, I would have to make rebalances, retroactively make decisions. And I am very interested in the position of the Ministry of Finance for such exhibition or according to this budget, which is now said, this law should enter 1.1. of the following calendar year because it gives certain restrictions to financial cities and municipalities, and we all know when the budgets are given to representative bodies. January 15, 15th and adopted by 31.12. This will cause maltenes one retroactiveness, and we all sign statements of fiscal responsibility so that I do not understand the intensity of this law by them and how those cities that currently have the power to finance the work of political parties less than proposed in the law will act. It is another, as I said in previous discussions, one form of our Croatian decentralisation of decision-making. And I wouldn't be surprised if there were any changes to this law next year, so that censorship increases one, two, three times when we see European elections census increases and the presidential campaign... Total choices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134228	Dear colleague Pranic We move to the 785th Amendment since there is no colleague Ninčević Lesandric, the respected vice president of the Croatian Assembly Mr. God Petrov. [[/Intruder Pranic: Thank you. We're looking for a vote.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134229	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, in order to determine the material I will repeat one thing from last night. List of damages and affairs caused by the last 28 years Fimi Media 30 million, HEP 630 million affair, HR Highway 25 million, Hipo affair 5 billion, Podravka affair 350 million, Spice 400 million affair, Medikol affair 231 million, HZ affair 20 million, HPB affair 245 million, INA affair 2 billion, Rončević truck 34.4 million, Đakovština affair 27 million, Croatia Leasing 17 million, Sunny Hvar 571.5 million, Slavonska banka 150 million, an affair Brodosplit 27 million, company Imostroj 6 million, an affair Stone Ingrad 60 million, an affair Salonit 100 million, BMW 4 million and 200, a Belupo 35 million affair, VZ waste 220 million, Adriatic Bank 17 million, construction fund 30 million, Shimadzu and 200 million more. Well, you can solve my people's six thousand campaigns with this. That's what I told you last time, that's what I'm telling you right now. Come on, stop. Here, stop, that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134231	Please vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134232	We are moving on to the 786th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134233	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. Here again on this amendment I have given in the sense of eradicating the envisaged article, since it is an area that should be regulated by the referendum law, which is particularly important to highlight because the Bridge advocates and supports referendum initiatives, advocates for strengthening them, considers them actually crucial in the democratic life of a country, and we also distinguish that these referendum initiatives can certainly be of that local character, can be of that regional or national character. Given this law you delivered over your knee, which for 30 hours, you've been trying to actually wait for 30 hours to vote and thus ensure actually not a million-and-a-half kuna for the promotion, but 4 million kuna for these euro parliamentary elections. What's important to stress is that with 40000 signatures erased under, that the great reformer knew it before certain control lists and everything else were implemented, he knew by then that whoever was losing, had the right to be angry and he knew that he was the one who didn't lose, of course because he competed with the people. What I would like to stress is that this is the way that, or normised, in this way, normised in fact, legislative activities are not acceptable since they are not in the same law because we believe that citizens should primarily be granted the availability of all relevant rules relating to referendum initiatives in one place and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134234	I thank my esteemed colleague. 787th Amendment, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the picture that we send through this law is not good, so I repeat, we have too many politicians on too many good salaries and we want to send another picture, we want to prevent those 2.5 million more to fund the campaign and I will again because it is my closest and since it is my hometown, look back at the city of Zagreb. So the city of Zagreb pays thousands and thousands of politicians and very generously, for example. My student about 4, 5 years ago, who won five national awards in all possible competitions, so from physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology, geography, so he was among the first three state competitions, the City Education Office rewarded him with five of the same books. So the exact same books. So the child who won the 5 state awards got 5 of the same books and politicians were paid in a fabulous manner. So I don't think that's good, I think we should talk about such things, so I think that this round of stakeholders must stop once, so we have to talk to our citizens, that we should invest in children, in education, in gifted children, and also in those children who have difficulties, so in Croatian society there must not be those who are equal and those who are more equal than others. And again, I warn, so with these 30 hours, we wanted to tell the citizens that we were fighting for democracy and that we were going to ask to vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134236	Thank you. We're moving on to the 788th Amendment of Honored colleague Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134237	Thank you. So we continue with the same heat as 35 hours ago. So 35 hours ago we entered this assembly, in a few hours passed the laws that were yesterday, on Thursday on the agenda and then actually began to expose these amendments and defend the amendments. 35 hours of MOST from this assembly sending messages and believe these messages come to citizens. They're not all our voters, they're citizens of this country who heard what's been going on here since yesterday. Come out for a minute or have your party friends send you pictures outside the assembly, in front of the Parliament. People have gathered and have come to praise what is happening here today, and that is what we are fighting for for these people. For all people because they do not deserve that political desires, that political parties continue to increase their funds from which they will pay and their political campaigns, that is what citizens do not tolerate, that is wherever you ask Croatian citizens, it will be against it, and your voters. And because of that 35 hours we're here, we could do another 35 hours, we can change, we can go drink a glass of water and go back, but constantly here, the whole club of MOST has changed and is constantly following and defending these amendments that we've given you, why? Let's just say it can't do that, you can't do this anymore. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134238	Thank you. We're moving on to the 789th Amendment of Honored colleague Nikola Grumoje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134239	Thank you, Vice President. Down here in front of the Parliament, people began to gather for the purpose of supporting this fight, and that is what joys, the people awakens, opens their eyes, and it certainly is not good for the HDZ before these European elections. You know what makes me happy? Because I fought here with my comrades and friends I know I can always turn my back on them and in HDZ we see a bunch of internal fighting, fighting for positions, fighting for prey. And that's why Gabriela Žalac's position was shaken because she opened a question she shouldn't have opened, precisely that disunity within the HDZ. MOST has no approximately money or infrastructure or anything else like HDZ but has a heart for this country, a heart that has shown itself during this debate, and we will simply remain here as much as possible to represent or defend our amendments that state secretary Josipa Rimac has persistently refused, Minister Kuščević does not want to come here at all in front of parliamentary representatives, the parliamentary representatives who are here for 35 hours in the assembly, but it will not discourage us, however, will give us additional motive to continue to fight here in HS, to fight for democracy, to fight for the referendum of citizens, but also to fight against the increase of the amount spent in the campaign. Here I heard that Prime Minister Plenkovic said what kind of campaign it was without a TV video. He needs money for a TV video. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134240	...to a respected colleague. We move to the 790th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please the Secretary of State to show about the amendments of the regular No. 790 to 801, since they're identical content, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134241	I would like to thank Vice-President HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary MPs, on behalf of the Proposer, for the amendments of the regular No. 790 to regular No. In 801, the same amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is a form of political action by citizens. We therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134242	Thank you. On behalf of the MOST Club, dear colleague Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134243	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here's my colleague, Grmoy, he spoke his views heartily, but what we have to go back to exactly what we're talking about, and that's with reason to approach. And reason tells us that a million and a half if so far it has been enough for our deputies to go to the European Parliament, we do not see that inflation has grown so much that we now need to secure 4 million. I don't know how many of those TV videos have to be made to finally justify the funds invested. Secondly, if we look at the election for the president of the Republic of Croatia, the president of the Republic of Croatia, if there were enough 4 million kunas so far, and now 8 million kuna is projected. Will there be two presidents maybe? For that money, we might have more if we were to manage the funds properly, for example. Here's what happened with the Mercedes buy, then we might as well be three, but we should want to know. So, to be rational, you know what you're trying to achieve and get on with it. Just here, we're a small country, and I think by a third it might be, not to increase by a president from four to eight, but it would be enough for three. And if we so touch the last one, to the least municipality or the smallest town where we should walk, where we should see every path, every house, every problem that lies, that's how elections are won, and surely we don't get run over by the entire government, the prime minister and all the others that happen are just by chance in certain elections and then they say we bring you prosperity just vote for us. People have already learned, today you show up to me, today you promise me, today you lie to me, tomorrow you forget me, it's just about getting power. So with the referendum, it's only important to prevent Please vote. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134244	We're moving on to the 791st Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134245	The people expect us to discuss their problems and solve them and HS is a centre, a representative body and a centre of power to decide, not at all the government and satellites around this government that will serve, of course, as I always say, foreign interests. HS is the one who decides on important issues. Do you remember the Law on credit default with the Raiffeisen International Contract of Savings and Credit Cooperatives, etc. Lex Scibola. In order for Jandrokovic to become president of HS, then he signed our fellow Parliamentarian Scybola the same law that I tried to push when I entered HS and then passed that law with, unanimously, 134 votes, more than the Constitution got, two-thirds of the majority. You know what happened? People started the proceedings, the judge complained about leading the process, which is in that problem, which lies in... in the conflict of interest and the European Court of Justice has now made, in the procedure, a decision on the integrity of these contracts. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the government doing to the Republic of Whether they will now, the costs have now been increased, some and up to a million kuna have been passed by HS law. Did 134 parliamentary MPs who voted unanimously to these people, these cameramen, who are banned in Austria and where they are being persecuted, in Hungary he dumped them with his foot in the tour by Orban jell-o? rob their people and interest them. What's our government doing? She's got these people in bigger troubles with our citizens hanging all over the property, they'll never be able to get them back, and we're Parliamentarians. voted unanimously [[Intruder: Thank you...]] And that's why I'm asking to vote for these people and ask them to vote on this amendment. [[Intruder:...respected colleague Bulj...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134246	We move on to the 793th Amendment, since there are no colleagues of the Dolnjak, the amendment of counterpart Hrvojo Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, now, a while ago, Panenic mentioned, he was reportedly in a company that likes to beat himself to it, the prime minister said that it's hard to run a campaign if you don't have the money to film a TV video and I would add order to a famous lawyer's office. I know what it's like to run a campaign when you can't shoot a TV video, I know and say how to run a campaign when you can't pay for some paid quasi analysts who'll talk for money on TV shows against, so, in the order of the departments to deal with political enemies etc., I know, I know all of it practically how to run a campaign with very small means and with the help of digital tools, and it's just like that in the real world. But in this world where they deal with enormous resources, it's done so. What's the problem in today's time is that the new generations, as the new generations stand, are increasingly actually voters who don't use these old media. And in those old media, they're not interesting guys, and here yesterday I saw one of those quasi analysts, so I'm going to repeat that, says the man like this, his analysis is the next, this group has so much now because they did it, and these if they did this, they would have had so much, but if they hadn't done it, so if they hadn't, then he would have said here you see they didn't do it, so that's not so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134248	I thank my esteemed colleague. We are moving on to the 794th amendment of a respected colleague, Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134249	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, I warmly welcome you all. So, what else could be done with the money that would be saved to avoid what is being passed by this Law, that is, if our amendments were accepted? So, a lot of things, I mentioned working with children, but it's possible work, not only with children, but with all interested, for the protection of some, this, the heritage, whether it is, this, the costume, whether it was music, music, anything, therefore, that people's wealth has a lot to do, and most often it's a big problem with funding such content, it's possible to do mountain schools with children, speleological schools, alpinistic schools, therefore, all this expensive, chess, therefore, various activities where each kuna would be invested in children, it's a terrible return of money, not money, but folk wealth. So, happy children, children with whom one dedicates himself. So it's really quite wrong to go this way to strengthen the political caste, to secure them so that they don't feel quite safe, and those who are outside that system feel rejected, abandoned and when they don't belong, and that's the way to what we already have today, and that's the depopulation and demographic disaster. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134250	I thank my colleague. We are moving to the 795th Amendment of Honored colleague Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134251	Thank you, Vice President. I read from the official profile of the Croatian Democratic Community quotes: "They hoped that before them and to an evil god, the majority of the Parliament would step in, but Jandrokovic clearly disappointed them." The quote says, "If necessary, we will vote at midnight, we will fight as politically as you do." So of course they will vote at midnight when it comes to the law without which, if the HDZ vote is not voted in the next elections for the Eu Parliament will be much worse, and for the presidential elections. At midnight, however, there is no stay and no vote is made when the Laws on the mountainous and mountainous areas, the Laws on an assisted area, or those laws that create a picture on 2/3 of Croatia’s surface. And then it wasn't about midnight, then the laws were late for months. And every month as late as the law was, so many people were moving out. And finally, when we passed those laws, we see that they are still evicting, these laws have not received absolutely anything, absolutely nothing, which we now see in rural areas of Croatia that space is empty. And then in 50 years, only those people in Croatia who have a membership card or the Croatian Democratic Union, or the Social Democratic Party, will be seen in the area of Croatia. HNS more or less, given that they cross one section into HDZ, one part in the SDP as the wind blows, or as the current moves in HEP. That's it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134252	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. We move on to the 797th Amendment, since there is no colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, a respected colleague of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. God Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134253	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to see the day in which in the evening, in such evening hours or perhaps even at midnight, because I see that this vote will be around midnight, that the ruling majority will thus fight for some law that will really help people, the type of executive law, the law on startup companies, the Law on Microsolars, the Law on the Selection of Representatives in Parliament or the IGP Act, exclusively economic belt. It would be interesting to see that. Then they'd get a round of applause from me, but since the odds are not minimal, but they're likely to be measured in smudges, by applause, nothing. And yesterday I said your party is in first place to you, and then the state goes, and that's why my colleague Pranic is right, if you need to vote for this law at 2:00 a.m. because it's your party bag. Lex shush is for your party bag, and that's the first place it goes, and then the state goes. If it were the budget, I believe the budget would be delayed by tomorrow, you might want to sleep a little. Sad but true. But it's not just money. I'll do it again. It's not just about the money. It's a referendum, it's a matter of the will of the people you're suffocating, which you've begun to choke with other laws, and now you will continue. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134254	Thank you, dear colleague. We move on to the 798th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134255	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary. There he is. We've been waiting almost eight hours. We are discussing two days of these amendments in total 888 amendments submitted by the Independent Lists Bridge together with colleagues at the Most. Of course, that's how we wanted to contribute to the improvement of this bad law of yours. We wanted to point out that the referendum initiatives are very important to us. It is important for us to actually be life-saving, that they can actually take place in every social sense, and that is why we have also proposed that we actually delete this amendment in order to actually implement the content of this text in the referendum law. What's important to stress is that you've been arguing for 30 hours, and that's already clear to everyone. You've been arguing for 35 hours, and it's clear to everyone right now that one purpose of this is not to get a million and a half kuna or to be you, but to be 4 million kunas in accordance with the provisions of this law. But what I've been thinking right now, I've been thinking about how, in fact, for election units, you've increased from one million to one-and-a-half kunas in parliamentary elections. In the parliamentary elections, you increased a million and a half kuna. ... Well, of course, if you're famous you have to hire a bus, you have to hire buses, you have to pay for videos in famous offices. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They're not very simple offices. Not everybody's office like that right now. He was your prime minister now, so he made a statement. Anyway, a million and a half kuna. in the constituency election unit in the Croatian Parliament. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134256	My dear colleague. We're moving on to the 799th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You know what's interesting? So when we talk about what we're fighting for and when we talk about hours, we always cut our hours. So if there was another political option in our place, I think she'd be talking about 90 hours. But that's who we are. We don't care what hours we've spent here. We care about the people we're talking about here, and that's why we're different from the other political parties. So I repeat again. This isn't some victim. Imagine the defenders who were freezing themselves on Velebit for what it was for them. So, but the goal is basically the same. So the goal is to create from this state a state of prosperity, a state for which these same defenders fought. She's not that now, unfortunately. Whether it'll be up to us. Not just about us. It depends on the people watching us. It depends on people who vote, and it depends mostly on young people, and that is why the Bridge has proposed an Electoral Law, which already gives political decisions to young people. The electronic vote will contribute to that. We even made this one so one test balloon where we suggested a 16-year-old vote and we want to discuss it. We want to discuss important laws in Croatia that are currently on the political arena. And that's why we've been sending messages this way for the last 35 hours. There may be some of our steps therefore do not specifically refer to the amendments, but every time we talked about the subject, and the topic is better and fairer Croatia. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134258	Thank you. We're moving on to the 800th Amendment of Honored colleague Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134259	Thank you. Here we are entering the 35th hour of debate in this House. We've processed a lot of amendments. We'll process all 888. But you know what would be expected to be told by the brewers following the HDZ? To tell you, you shot yourself in the leg because the way you did this law and the way you got the reaction on the other side of the bridge as individuals of the opposition as seen in these 35 hours turned out wrong. And the question is, was that exactly what two and a half million kunas worth to you that you're going to get for your campaign to be the most beautiful, the brightest and the biggest ever for the European Parliament? Was that worth it or could you get that two and a half million the way you've managed to get the money so far? So, the result of this debate is that some other civil world has been mobilised that actually followed this through social networks. Not through controlled media, and at the end of our reaction, we do. You'll probably have a message from the field saying what you needed. And we needed it, it was supposed to give us an input that was worth fighting this way. We're just getting together. I think we could do it for the next 35 hours. We're used to difficult conditions. There was rain and tears and blood and sweat but we knew we were fighting for some Croatia and now we're fighting. We're fighting those who were maybe too young when we were fighting. They joined us and we're fighting for some real Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134260	I thank my esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134261	And this fight is worth what will be the result.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134262	We're moving on to the 801st Amendment of Honored colleague Nikola Grumoje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134263	Dear Vice President, therefore, all the time we want to warn here that simply in this 35th hour of the message are the same, messages of fighting for democracy, fighting for a referendum of citizens who are trying to disable this law. It is also a struggle against the will of a political party that has decided at all costs to raise a price of money for election promotion so that it can record TV videos. We could just hear the Prime Minister, he says, "What kind of campaign is this without a TV video?" And all I care about is where these TV videos are going to be recorded? Will she be in that famous law firm maybe? Once again, a nice alley spot where there'll be a message, it won't be credible anymore. Now something else will come up with the existence of our prime minister's hairstyle. He's tightened the line, and he'll probably do it right. But to do this well, it takes 4 million kunas, and it will fall into another plan and the Agrokor affair, or they hope to fall. It will fall into the second plan of the INA and the fact that they issued a Sisak refinery that they said would not be shut down. It will fall into the second plan of the Privatisation Act of the INA, which was brought here in the Croatian Parliament. It's going to fall into the second plan of all these affairs, every four or five days we're having an affair within the HDZ ranks. We have a fact that HDZ officials are hitting their wives, their wives. We have cases of domestic violence, which is absolutely unacceptable for us as a political option, and when the vote here when HDZ pushed the persistent Istanbul Convention, I was saying we needed effective legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134264	I thank my esteemed colleague, never Grumoji. We move to the 802nd Amendment of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. I ask the Secretary of State to be made aware of the amendments from regular number 802 to 813, since they are identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134265	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the Proposer of this Act, I am aware of amendments from regular number 802 to regular number 813. The amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum on political action is citizens. We therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law that regulates and finance other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134266	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134267	The Honorable State Secretary is now passing one measure at a time and we see the same attitude. Sometimes it's good to have a clear attitude. And we have a clear attitude here. So we have different views and it's good to have different views. Because if everyone was watching the same thing, then there'd be one dictatorship. Then it would become a real dictatorship, and people would look at it like that and they would enjoy dictatorship, and it seems somehow they see that, there should always be a new Sanader who would be a little more honest than one who would fear less of these tunnels and everyone would be happy. We'd get some crumbs. We would slowly return from this democracy to that former communist system, not only to wave. Do not produce any referendums in which you will seek some of your rights. What am I supposed to tell my folks in the community that's gonna shut us down? They're gonna cancel our post office. They're gonna shut down our school. What's that? It's just that few more people who work that land there, and that country needs to be returned, we're going to get Agror back, we're going to get Eltz back. I can say, people, let's get on the street and raise our voice. If we're loud enough with this money that's supposed to be in this campaign, someone's gonna come and do something for us. Maybe it's not a co-worker or a co-worker or a bad guy. It just comes with 4 million someone, so in a million, two to make. Even the workplace is to make and makes sense that way to think. But I don't see if it's really spent through some pirate agencies that are mostly here in Zagreb, doing quality work, but we don't have any of it. It simply does not go eastward towards Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, or in Lika, or anywhere else. He'd ask to vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134268	Thank you. We're moving on to the 803rd Amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134269	How sad it seems that the HDZ for 2 million kuna is doing this scenario, 2 and a half million kuna, and it will have secured this "will be under the table of sacks". There won't be a mayor, a municipality, this one, that one. There'll be treats, there'll be promises. There'll be cornerstones. There'll be insurance. But for what? For the EU elections. And now I was down there with the people who went to the protest in Brussels in front of the European Parliament, the European Commission in Brussels, and they were up there and the man tells me – 50 of them for what we unanimously brought in by 12 Europarliamentaries had information that they were coming, nobody wanted to hear from them. Are we spending money on you? Here to get a hand to make it simple and we accepted it and it's okay, but to get the hand of the HDZ has accepted our fellow Scybole so called the "Lex Scybola". And in the Europarliament of 12, no one looked at them. So imagine which one is absurd. This is where the HDZ accepts that it has a majority. That's where they get their buddy Schibol and then they raise their hand later on. That's why you need to be careful. There must be no people upstairs who allow themselves to be pinched in front of cameras. Let him pinch me. Let Putina pinch. Get me a Juncker. My prime minister is a straight-up exterminator who's drunk all the time. So what does this tell you about the state? They're keeping us close as they are to the banana state. And because of that pinch, I'm asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134270	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We are moving on to the 805th Amendment, as the colleagues of the Dolnjak are gone, the respected colleague of Hrvojo Runtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134271	Now there's a colleague named Podolnjak. He called in a tram. But I'd go back to this, I mean it's my top, so I have to go back. Maybe I'll go back to this prime minister again sometime to imagine what it's like to do a campaign without television videos. So that sounds like when a little kid at the store sees some kind of toy so he throws himself on the floor, so he screams because he wants to have that toy and throws himself on the floor until he gets it. In fact, in his question, however, there may be an answer to what I have been asking myself for some time, which is why he is as monotonous and boring as the prime minister? So why did he, when he came to Croatia, act as something new and perhaps they were expecting him to do something? However, all that has been made or patched up so far is mostly monotonous and boredom. There's no real reform. There's no real step. There's nothing a man can hold on to and say wow. And that's obvious because man isn't creative, in some situations you're more or less creative. So what's asking for a lot more money here? Because you pay for the money. And when you have less money, you have to be creative. And now we come to the fact that some people are born in a court where they eat with golden spoons and where you get everything, and some people have to get by. And that's why you actually need more money, because you're not creative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134272	Thank you, dear colleague. We are moving on to the 806th amendment of a respected colleague, Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134273	There he is, thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. A referendum. Is it a threat or is it a blessing for a society? I wonder how, looking at this experience that we had with Minister Kustević and his ministry, it is clear that especially this initiative on the Election Law was seen as a major threat, although if there were opportunities to bring about a quality, reasoned, professional conversation then there would have to be a consensus that there is a better electoral law for Croatia or an electoral system that would better create representatives of the people in the Assembly and that would solve all this as a lack. And the experience of the referendum initiative and a large number of signatures that suggested that everything was ready for the referendum to be called are, of course, stopped by one big surprise turn where it is said that there are not enough votes that I really think is a big disappointment for a large part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And now here goes back to a certain completely wrong approach. So also the restraint or asphyxiation of a possible referendum and please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134274	Thank you, dear colleague Dobrović. We are moving to the 807th Amendment of Honored counterpart Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134275	Thank you. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I've been thinking about why you're suddenly raising a census mostly for the European elections from a million and a half to four million kunas. And then I came to one conclusion, that the HDZ not only at Croatia's level is funding the campaign. I'm watching, the other day I get a call from HDZ Frankfurt, HDZ Dublin, HDZ Ireland. In fact, the campaign needs to be financed in some other countries, and that is the most young people who have evicted minors to Western Europe from Germany, Ireland and the rest, and it is absolutely understandable if we see it that way. HDZ has Argentina, too. That's probably for the presidential election, so it raises the censorship from 4 to 8 million kuna. And I honestly don't know what the powers of the President or the President of the Republic of Croatia are, no matter who he is and who he is? We should finally decide as a state what we are, whether we are a parliamentary state, whether we are a presidential, semi-presidential state that we have. And it's not clear to me that suddenly it takes here for the presidential elections to raise the censorship to 8 million kuna. If we take the mathematics of the future president or president will be, there will be fewer Croats in the country than there are now. The campaign should therefore be spent less money with some logic, not double the amount unless it really costs, and we all know it costs, and we really need that picture, a dark picture, an ugly picture that has gone over Croatia today to make a lot more beautiful for people to even go to elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134276	Thank you. We move to the 809th Amendment, since there is no colleague Lesandric, a respected colleague of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. God Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134277	Well, I'd just like to supplement it. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and your honorary secretary of state. I would just supplement a little more of what my colleague Pranic said with a sentence from a man who said – we have the best government that can be bought and that's how it is for you today. And the way that you have now proposed changes in this Act speaks about exactly that, you have provided additional financial resources, not only for your party, you have made it possible for people other, and natural, and legal persons to give more significant funds to multiple addresses, where ultimately there will no longer be an important voice of the person, but it will be an important amount in the bank account. It will eventually, unfortunately, you're headed in that direction, and it will be the engine of democracy. And you probably see it that way, I don't see politics in Croatia. What luck was in the accident, many thought it would last forever, but it wasn't in the end, so that gives me hope that all of this that you're doing is going to end at one point, right, and you won't be there. I told you nicely last night, and I'm still standing there, I think the best outcome for this country would be to give you a blank check to write for yourself, write out the price you need to be paid and disappear. I'm still standing by it, and I think the state would lose less than it's been losing for twenty-eight years. I read you a series of affairs that were, it would be cheaper to write a check.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134278	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 810th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134279	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state. Here we are, eight hours past, no major reformer, you defend what is unguarded, which is an increase in the amount for political promotion in election campaigns, so you predict the amount for the president from eight million kuna, one million kuna per election unit for parliamentary elections, four million kunas in the elections for members of the European Parliament, one million kuna for the mayor of the City of Zagreb, and so on. So here's one thing I have to say, and that's that you're very persistent, but here's your perseverance has noticed the entire Croatian public, the entire Croatian public, and you've interested the entire Croatian public in actually finding out what it says in this law, what it says in this Act, which should finance political activities, election promotions and referendums, and now the citizens are just sending out queries and saying, which is so much as it says when it has seized attention that we're going to have a vote in the middle of the night to get this important law voted. I haven't been in the Croatian Parliament long enough to know if there have been cases like this in any further history, but while I have been, it wasn't very often happening, except for one late debate when the State Secretary from the Ministry of Administration was the same, when we talked about EU funds, there and the overall usefulness, and then there I just read the answer that I received, which was signed by the resolution minister, which is that out of the total of 53 million kuna you contracted in February 2018, you actually spent nothing less than 180 thousand kuna in total. Thank you, please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134280	I thank my colleague. We're moving on to the 811th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladeyev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in Croatia everything stagnates, therefore, everything is somehow in a negative trend other than the growth of finances for political parties, so it is one paradox, so I would expect these politicians, these parties to be rewarded, and they would be rewarded that Croatia is growing economically, so we are three times as clear for political parties if Croatian GDP does not grow, if wages do not grow, so the only thing that actually grows in Croatia is wages and funding for political parties, and tourism. But that tourism is also being imposed on him, therefore, with new inducements to finance the political elites again. So this way, which the ruling caste wants to manage Croatia, is not good for me, is not good for many reasons, one reason is that it violates the will of the Croatian people who wants to change that course of politics with which it is dissatisfied. We have a fact that 75% of citizens are dissatisfied with government policy. And normally to organise themselves, they want referendums, from those local referendums to the national ones, because more in their representatives of the authorities, especially those who decide, they don't see the right representatives who will represent their interests. The referendums appear in societies where the people are no longer satisfied with the ruling elite. That is why we and this amendment will demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134282	Thank you. We're moving on to the 812th Amendment of Honored colleague Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We continue in the same tone. We went just ahead, between these few amendments that were defended by other colleagues, we went before the Parliament where indeed a larger group of people came to support us in this fight, fighting for the money of the citizens of this country. So, by this law, you increase the funds to political parties and you greatly increase them, you increase the funds that could be used for European elections, and by even two and a half million kunas, you increase everything that will be practically a harasser to small local self-governments, which, and money that could not be used for what they need most, for the most vulnerable groups, for the poorest citizens of their municipalities and cities, and all this is actually something that this people will not welcome, and you may have to deal with and spend time and put some kind of law or open a debate on something that is much more important, which is health system reform, social system reform, social care. There are so many screaming things, from judicial reform, from the reform of many segments of our society, but I'll tell you in a situation where we know that current healthcare loses two thousand and eight hundred medical salaries every month, so difficult is the loss of health every month. A possible cost reduction is also done in some clear specifications, such as rationality in employment, primarily non-medical staff, better control of overtime, dedicated procurement of medicines and consumer material, faster patient flow, reduction of patient rates, health care and rational energy management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134284	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 813th Amendment of Honored colleague of the Grmoy, not present. We move to the 814th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I would like to ask the State Secretary for an indication of the amendments to the regular number 814 to 825, since the amendments are identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134285	I would like to thank the honourable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. On behalf of the Proposer of this Act, I am aware of amendments from regular number 814 to regular number 825, the amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same Law governing and financing political activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134286	Thank you. Observation of the MOST Club, a respected colleague, Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134287	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Of course, by looking at all these fines like this, they may not look too big in relation to what will be available to your party for the election campaign, it would be said that it will arrive, you can't do anything in the election campaign, if someone with tens of thousands of kunas, what with it?, you can't record a single video or something more serious with it, you can't get elections, even if you can't win the PR elections. However, if we look at individuals who sacrifice themselves, help, organize people who think about how to change something, and if the referendum is one of those opportunities, and even talk about those little local referendums where there are very specific things about a local community, they have a lot of kuna, because they invest in it, not only their time, but also their kuna, their families, their children, their parents, their friends, just to know that they have contributed to Croatian society or their community. When you punish them, you are essentially punishing the initiative, and these are people once they lose faith in this country, when they see that injustice is in what, in their efforts, in their enthusiasm they were actually punished for the fact that our laws only open up a lot of bureaucratic problems with which you end up being an expert, we should deal with that, simply one man, is a small team, not up to it. Which is, they need to address the Ministry, so that the Ministry will be their advisory body that will help them actually organise, but we can see that this support is behind us. Therefore, I would ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134288	Thank you. We're moving on to the 815th Amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134289	Thank you very much. Who will be helped by this Law? Are they going to raise the employees, maybe? Will it help entrepreneurs? And three days we've been struggling here, talking, and this law won't help anyone, except that there will be an increase in the cash register and a greater amount for the EU elections to HDZ. And nothing else. Will it help the accomplished? Will it help the blocked? They want help with the job? Will there be support for the entrepreneurs? They want farmers, if there's more of them at all, are there fewer people in the farm? Will it help the fishermen? Are we going to declare an exclusive economic belt? We can't, we're not our government to Tajani, their friend, the fascist who usurped my Dalmatia and Istria. What do we do with this law? One thing that solves, solves definitely the referendum and a direct blow to the Constitution, means it takes away the right for citizens to organise and implement a referendum because it is difficult, it is placed together with the financing of political parties. Will this help Dalmatian workers? Here's Andrej Plenkovic, your prime minister, you're the deputy to him, that is, the party, said he would solve the problem of the Dalmatian woman, that the state would solve all this, that the state would deny claims, would not. Dalmatia wine, it won't. He wants what we are, only one thing he'll do, it'll make your bag harder. Money, peanuts, Lex shush or Lex peanuts, that's the same thing. It's about peanuts, it's important, about that, here they are, tonight the club will be... Let's go vote, Jandrokovic says we'll fight, and we'll... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I'm asking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134290	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. We're moving on to the 816th Amendment of Honored colleague Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134291	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We, therefore, hereby delete this point 43 in Article 87, which provides for certain criminal sanctions for the representative of the organisational committee of the referendum initiative which will not provide certain data within certain deadlines. We have now had a situation that is under way a referendum initiative of trade unions, so they have already published a decision on when to approach signing, what will be the referendum issue, in accordance with the referendum law. This law has not yet been passed, these provisions have not yet entered into force but you are predicting that this law enters into force in a few days. And it would be interesting to ask if you think that the provisions of this law will apply to the ongoing referendum initiative, you have not prescribed such exceptions at all. So you already have an initiative because it is subject to possible sanctions if it does not publish and deliver to the State Election Commission discounts in media advertising prices etc. These are provisions that have not yet entered into force. And the trade unions have already announced their decision to a daily newspaper to approach the decision to collect signatures and have published a referendum issue, so they have already made a press release, they have paid for it. Did they get a media discount? You give these legal provisions sanctions if they don't deliver it all to the State Election Commission. You see which paradox and how impossible it is to pass such a law. Searching... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134292	I thank my esteemed colleague. We are moving on to the 817th Amendment, dear colleague Hrvoje Runtic, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You know when you're a boring bureaucrat and you don't have a vision and you don't do anything according to that vision, and then you don't have the results that are news to yourself, then you need a good PR, and you need that marketing to create some news for you to be around in public all the time. And since it's so regrettable with us and our government and our prime minister primarily, then there's always various, various affairs, various scandals, so there's this whole factory that's making stories. These stories are from the banals to the ones that come out on the cover of some weeks and from recently two weeks ago. And these are actually stories that need to be entertained and the public until the boring bureaucrats do nothing because they don't know what they'd do. And so sometimes a man following these media can get the impression that, let's say, our prime minister's goal is to get rid of you, let's say. And then around that I think that maybe Madam Secretary of State should have included in this law an article that would have meant that on those texts in the media that are being published about affairs, about scandals that we don't know three times a day, we see scandals in the media today that simply on those articles up there are right writing paid ad. That would be fair, I mean to the public. And as for the amendments, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134294	Thank you. We move on to the 818th amendment of the respected colleague Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134295	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, and I welcome the State Secretary and all present colleagues and colleagues. So what does this law essentially bring? It brings easier life for all those involved in politics, so life and life than politics itself, because it brings more comfortable funding conditions one way or another or another, the fourth way. And the other thing that has been passed is to promote this law is to regulate the issue of a referendum that is treated as a simple political activity, therefore not as self-organised citizens, which is a valuable initiative, which is initiated on the basis of some expressed general, social interest in involving in solving a social problem but puts it side by side with classical political work, through political parties that have been touched by more-level funds which is totally unacceptable. So we both think that the wrong path is to build a modern prosperous Croatian society in which people could live from their work, from the fruits of their work, so with full dignity and by solving the accumulated demographic problems. Thank you very much. I'm gonna beg a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134296	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. I'm setting a break to 20.45 minutes. ... Until 20.45. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's 20.31 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.52 HOURS]] 819th Amendment, dear colleague Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134298	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. I see in this short break of 15 minutes how the parliamentary halls full, the parliamentary deputies full of representative majority, and I used to say that, if I were missing any date, I would say that tonight we really vote the state budget, means as a fundamental act of development of the Republic of Croatia, but obviously the representative majority and this more important law is because they are obviously more concerned about the financing of their own party and they are all ready to come today about 11 and a half, midnight, to vote this Law. There has been an obvious failure within the Ministry of Administration, so the Law is adopted on the agenda for five minutes until noon, but it may not be a failure, when we sum up as well as other laws that bind, also for mountainous and assisted areas, and a number of other problems in the Republic of Croatia are brought and adopted without any strategy, policy of anger, five minutes after noon, and for many problems in Croatia have already been adopted late or are not at all in the parliamentary procedure. This Act is clearly planning to create a maneuvering space for various PR services, marketing agencies, TV houses, videos, to repair a situation that is not good, and we can deal with polls and everything, but the biggest poll on Croatia, a devastating survey of the departure of many people outside the borders. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134299	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ante Pranic. I'd like to ask you to stick to the subject a little bit more. Here's my colleague Zekanovic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134300	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, 238. So, fellow MOST colleagues, you have my full support in what you're doing, hold on till the end, since I personally worked on referendums, primarily the Truth about Istanbul, and I supported the People's Decision, and I know very well what the referendum initiatives mean, and I also joined the politicians through the referendum on marriage. Hold on to this path of yours, you have my full support, go ahead, don't give yourself away.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134301	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. I see you've been giving support since yesterday all along, so even now, you've misused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of Article 239, I give you a warning. We move to the 820th Amendment of Honored Fellows Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, not there, 821st Honored Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134303	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll just sum up briefly, the bill we received in the procedure is disastrous for the 20th time, there are a series of gaps in it that end up being allocated to the main political party or two major political parties who will make the best use of it, so you can admire your candidates over posters, and I wish the citizens knew that these 35 hours have passed just so that citizens can watch their smiling faces over posters. That's why we had to stop here for 35 hours. In addition, by this proposal of the Law, you have abolished the right of the mayors and mayors and councilors to give up council fees, you have ordered them to have. With this bill of law, you also choke on the referendum, asphyxiating people's ability to manifest themselves on the most important issues for the country in which they live. This Law also allows natural and legal persons to donate much larger financial resources, several times towards more political options, thus creating a huge manipulative, corrupt space. In the end, you have set out in the direction that this political system will be worth as much as your bank card, not as much as it is worth one vote. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134304	I thank my esteemed colleague. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134305	238. Dear President of the Parliament, Vice President. So with thousands of volunteers I've worked weeks and weeks to make the truth about Istanbul a successful referendum, to drop the Istanbul Convention, failed, now you're passing a law that will be permanent... Thank you for what you're doing, be patient because Istanbul has to fall, Istanbul has to fall, and go ahead. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134306	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. You have re-injured the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article 240, I give you notice by taking away words. We move on to the 822nd amendment, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134308	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state. Citizens' initiatives are created spontaneously, ad hoc, citizens are looking for a referendum, but this bill of law treats them as entities that have the same obligations, but also the same restrictions as the parties. For example, you are talking about closing a financing account in Article 74. After the referendum was held, which is logical, no later than 6 months after the signing ceremony was completed if the referendum was not held. However, this provision is disputed without an appropriate provision in the referendum law, which would prescribe the appropriate deadlines for verifying the signature and making a decision on the calling or not calling a referendum. Therefore, let us take an example of current initiatives to call a referendum, more than 6 months have passed since the signing ceremony ended, and we still do not know whether the referendum will be held on the basis of the demands of these initiatives. If the proposed legislative provision were in force, the organisational committee would have to close the account and repay funds to or donate them, meaning, back to the budget. In the same way, it is provided for. The 73rd deadline since the opening of a special financing account, is possible 6 months before the deadline for collecting signatures, and is possible for long-planning initiatives, but they often arise as a consequence of a government decision or a draft law. So, citizens' initiatives are created spontaneously ad hoc because citizens are seeking a referendum, and in fact this bill defines them as political parties, and imposes certain rights on them, but from such limitations and obligations. We find this unacceptable and demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134309	We're moving on to the 823rd Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we enter the 36th hour of debate about this law, so 36 hours we debated, so 12 of us here and we didn't discuss between ourselves how some portals under the ruling control want to show, we actually created a dialogue with the Croatian people through this debate, so we told them, so, what we think about the referendum initiatives, they sent us messages, support, sometimes criticism, but we are a political option that fights for the Croatian people regardless of whether they are our voters or other voters. So, I don't know, the 12 we discussed here, we're not the only ones, I'm gonna take this opportunity and at the price of the reminder to mention our people in the club of MPs who were with us all the time, it's Maya, Neno, Marina, Sasha, Dominic and Michael, and I think they've also earned one respect, so all the time, we're here with us, so the team, so they've helped us in the debates, but here's a common fight for this people, it's a common fight for the referendum, it's a common fight for democracy, we've clearly expressed our views these 35 hours, we've got two hours left, and we're going to repeat some things, and we want to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134311	I thank my colleague, and I also welcome the employees and employees of your club and all other clubs of parliament in HS, I hope you've been keeping an eye on the provisions of the Labour Act that they may not have been broken, that they don't work too long. We're moving on to the 824th Amendment of Honored colleague Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134312	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We continue, we go into 36 hours of our fight in this assembly, fighting for a better Republic, fighting this law that you want to give the political elites more money again, because as much as they're now taking from the citizens, it's not enough. We are a political party, but we warn all the time that we can't live away and separate from our people, and that's why this fight here is more important because with 888 amendments, we wanted to send a message, you can't increase by 3 times the amounts you'll be taking from small towns and municipalities, units of local and regional self-government that don't have enough resources for those who need it most, for the children, for the elderly, for the homeless, for the social, you'll take it from them, and that's why what we're saying here today and all these hours gets to the citizens. I thank you on behalf of the entire MOST Club for all citizens who support us through social networks, here in front of HS they came to welcome us, they came to us to thank us whether they are the voters of the Most or not, they are citizens of this country who can no longer bear to be in such a difficult situation and who many of them live hard, takes even more and not enough of this current team at the head of the HDZ as much as they are now isolated, which is for example. Instead of 1.5, they want 4 million kunas to win already now for the European elections and therefore for this kind of attack, this kind of rape of democracy. And that's why [[Intruder: Thank you...]] We here tonight say you can't. [[Intruder: colleagues...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134313	Shots fired. We're moving on to the 825th Amendment of Honored colleague Nikola Grumoje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134314	Thank you, Vice President. Again here in which hour more, which is at all an hour of debate, 36 hours, so we are fighting for democracy, we are fighting for a direct statement of Croatian citizens, we are fighting on behalf of all those who want to change in the Republic of Croatia, not only change in the electoral system, but also change in the judiciary where these changes are necessary, changes in public administration, here we have the secretary of state from the Ministry of Administration, where MOST has left a final action plan and provided 880 million kunas for the implementation of that plan to know exactly who is working in the public administration and that this work can be valued and that then it can be known who is excess in that administration. And then the public administration doesn't care about the membership card, but who does the job, how much time it takes for him to do the job. So these are the changes that Croatia needs and that MOST has always advocated, had concrete solutions to these problems. So, dear Croatian citizens, thank you for this support and through text messages on social networks but especially thank those citizens of which some of them are not even our voters, who gathered tonight in front of the Croatian Parliament, who gave us support in this fight, this support has given us additional strength. And after 36 hours we are still determined, I am as rested as in the morning at 9.30 p.m. when we left here yesterday in the assembly because they filled me with enthusiasm, with the desire to change things in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134315	Thank you. We move on to 826 amendments Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. I'm asking the secretary of state to show up about the amendments under the rb. 826 to 837, since amendments are identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134316	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the proposer of this law, I declare amendments to rb. 826 to rb 837. The same amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134317	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, a respected colleague, Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134318	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Of course, law enforcement is much easier to comply with than the bad ones and only one mistake here as far as a good initiative can go. When we look at one punishment, one or two people, three who organize a mass that will carry out its position through a referendum as much as it can damage. And we can also say how useful one decision can be, right now we've got the same information from people, so just imagine that the president has called the election today. She would earn her salary by her decision. Not 4 million kunas, no need, these 4 million kunas I can push my mandate to the end and be the president of all Croats, all those who live in this country, here was so little missing, so little. And hopefully still, the day is not over, for us is not over, and we are persistent here that God gives her the strength to do the same before we come into the situation that this law that interprets counterpart Bačić is not changing, only the money is changing, only the money runs towards the HDZ that needs to be campaigned to make up for all the failures in this mandate so that they can show that they can make good PR videos, that they can organize their ministers to come to every position in Croatia and not have to deal with their jobs but only to show, we have ministers, we have parliamentary representatives, we have power, who opposes will not go well. And we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134319	Thank you. We're moving on to the 827th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134320	Thank you very much. So there are certain moments in life when a man feels a breath of pride and a breath of hope. Hope is lacking for the Croatian people, the hope we had as a young man when we created a free RH, when with hope and faith in democracy, in freedom, in freedom of speech in the full sense, freedom of young people went to fight together in the trench regardless of ideological differences and to free the Republic. And that dream came true, my happiest day of life was, of course, with my children when I got when I saw with Dinara Knin. The happiest day of my life, as a young man, in '72. I'm a year old. And now that I see what happened to my country, and when I remember 12 people for the first time told not one government, and we appeared supposedly out of nowhere, we didn't literally know each other, I many of your fellow MPs first saw each other, but we homogenized ourselves, and then it was, for the first time, they were extraordinary elections. Now in the referendum and on this 2 million that you want to put in your bag and increase your colleagues from HDZ, instead of solving the problems of the completed, blocked, shipbuilding workers, we discussed this. And when I went out a little while ago, because I didn't have lunch all day, I went to get a burek and yogurt, when I saw how many people were in front of me, I don't know most people, my heart grew, and I felt that hope as in the '90s. I call on all associations, initiatives, people, young people to resist, do not be afraid, Croatia has hope, we have proved it to you today. Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134321	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. We're moving on to the 828th Amendment of Honored colleague Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. With this amendment, we delete one point of 44 in Article 87 where representatives of the organisational committees, the initiatives proposed by the referendums, should submit to the State Electoral Commission financial reports on the financing of the referendum activity with certain components in a certain prescribed way the introduction into some information system. So what's unusual about it now? You have a referendum initiative that has already been created, which has been formed, which has started with activity, but the law is not in force, there is no information system that would have been elaborated, it will yet need to adopt some other sublegal regulations. So there are no assumptions that these legal provisions apply in a few days, and you want the law to come into force in a few days. There are no preconditions, nor is there an information system in the State Election Commission, nor is the Finance Minister's regulation yet to be passed for the earliest month, and you will in fact in some way commit referendum initiatives that will not actually know what their obligation is under the law, whether it can be implemented in a situation where they will already be in the course of their referendum activities, and this law will subsequently enter into force. This must not happen because it is a violation of the rule of law. On the basis of the above, I request a vote on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134323	Thank you. We move on to the 829th Amendment of the Honored Representative Hrvojo Runtic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134324	I would like to say one more thing about these four million. So these days, or I don't remember yesterday or today, because I'm a little confused about those two days I've seen on some portals saying that MOST is doing a circus in the assembly. I would like to draw attention to one fact, so what we are doing is a completely legitimate, democratic struggle in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have neither gone outside the Rules of Procedure nor out of any democratic rules. What we're doing is actually fighting for citizens who don't live very well in this, in this country, we'd like citizens to live much better, but this is also a fight against the right of these citizens to be heard referendumally about the issues that matter to their lives. Let's just say that I personally disagree sometimes with some referendum issues, but before that, it's always my freedom of speech and means the right of citizens to think and say what they mean. So that's kind of the starting point. And now I'm gonna go back to the ones writing that we're doing the circus here. Those who say we're doing a circus are actually within these 4 million kunas because now in this time it takes more and more of these quasi analysts who have to iron this character and the work of a great leader who has no idea, has no vision and knows nothing at all as Croatia's leader. So the conclusion would be next. Now you can actually see in the media who's on the side of the citizens and who's on the side of 4 million kunas. And please vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134325	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the 830th amendment of the respected colleague Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134326	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues, so in this legislative proposal, at least I, but I think it was a common feeling, we felt one of our own policies and an alienated referendum. And the simple reaction itself has arrived, of course a great deal has been done by our colleague Professor. We felt, however, that every amendment, and there are quite a number, was just going to bring politics closer to the people, and, of course, the referendum frees these shackles, because it is the only way to create a happy future in this country, where our youngsters will be happy to create, and we, too, are young, create a future in a way that works can bring success, satisfaction and dignity. I'm going to beg for this amendment to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134327	Thank you. We move on to 831st Amendment of Honored counterpart Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134328	Thank you, Vice-President, this entire hodogram of the amendments and the interpretation of the amendments and the adoption of this law actually shows in what state we are currently in the state of Croatia and what a political one is willing to do to vote this law after that. Apparently, the MOST's parliamentary deputies were resilient in the assembly during all the proposed amendments, and apparently the ministry also recalculated in the adoption and president of the assembly in putting on the agenda, but this whole process proved one thing, it proved that members of the representative majority were gathering at the literally 11 o'clock in the evening as if it were a state budget, as if it were a state of war, and in fact it was only one law to finance election promotion. So it's so important to finance the electoral promotion, and the same parallel in the country is currently taking place one process of the Uljannik shipyards and 3 May, where for 6 months people can't clearly be given information by the government or by the ruling majority in the assembly of the fate of these shipyards, 6 months can't be met like this until midnight, but when it comes to the financing of the party, the biggest party, or... financing election promotion... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134329	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to 833rd Amendment, since there is no colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, the Honored Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. God Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134330	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. We see representatives gathered from the ruling majority, the lex shushka has to be adopted tonight. So much for what's most important to you. Not my colleague Pranic's budget matters, you said well, the money that goes to the party is important, it's important to HDZ. I hope only after all this that the next time you see the number of amendments that we will submit to you on any bill that threatens freedom in any way in Croatia will not even occur to you to start and will welcome you up. I hope you learned that lesson. That and I will repeat why we do not approve and why we have been fighting with you here for 36 hours because of the way you started procedure day and night if you need to, without a break, without a break so that people fall off your feet. After that, instead of seven days waiting in the People's Newspaper, the next day, I think the president upstairs is already standing in a calm position to sign an autograph, you've arranged everything. That's why we're partly against it. I'm against the reason you're getting bigger funding, so you're going to corrupt up to the end of politics. I'm against it because you're suffocating the referendum and suffocating people's will. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134331	Thank you. We move on to the 834th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134332	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, here it is, we welcomed 9h, the second day, Minister Kuščević did not actually come to the Croatian Parliament, before this body that actually elected him and where he actually draws his legitimacy as minister in this government. What I would like to highlight is the importance of a referendum on democracy and, in fact, the importance of the people taking part in these initiatives and allowing it to actually change things. What I noticed is that in Article 87, paragraph 44, which we propose to delete, simply these existing referendum initiatives and existing organisational committees can't apply this to them, because they've already started, they already exist and these provisions don't actually know it. They should therefore be completed further in the transitional and final provisions. But what happens is that you actually alienated a referendum. Your chief of staff has estranged a referendum and deleted it and the prime minister has actually wiped out 400 thousand signatures on the floor and put them in the basement of the Parliament. What's certainly not going to stop at that because some new 400 signatures are going to come together. Because you know what, when the people are protesting, the people they pay should actually be there with them because if they can already receive from that same people wage compensation they should actually be able to listen to that people and just say what you don't like. Therefore, this amendment should certainly be supported and I will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134333	Thank you. We're moving on to the 835th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So 36 hours of debate on a law that is not, therefore, that will in some way offend the referendum initiatives and 4 million kunas bring to a particular policy and party, someone would say whether the law deserves so many hours. I think every law regarding Croatian citizens deserves so many hours and so many debates. However, I would be much happier if you, for example. In this parliamentary debate, therefore, the Executive Act appeared and if we all MPs had committed ourselves, all of us, from all parties and the SDP, the HDZ, that we would not leave this assembly until we have passed a fair executive law. There's no going out, so if it takes three days, three days. Here we are already trained, we are already there in some way we would have been trained but unfortunately that will never happen in Croatia. We are willing to cooperate with all policy options in a fair law, unfortunately that is not the case. But again, we are sending a message regarding this law that we are ready to discuss, offer solutions, offer messages of encouragement and hope for Croatian citizens that there are people who are fighting for their interests, who are fighting for their country and we believe that this country is worth fighting for and we are asking it to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134335	Thank you. We're moving on to the 836th Amendment, the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134336	Thank you. So, as you can see, no one can do anything to us, we can do as many hours as it takes, 36 hours have passed, 888 amendments will be done and so much more would be done. But you know why? Not only because of the citizens of Croatia who are watching and supporting everything that we are fighting for today because we are here because they gave us this power to fight for their rights, some have forgotten it but we have not forgotten it. But also for those who, after everything they've experienced in this country, went out and they're watching it tonight. And I have to read you the message that I received for all of us, which says, means a young girl from Ireland: “I just want to tell you that you are the best that I am not sorry that in the last seconds of the last elections I have circled the Most and left Croatia. I am one of hundreds of thousands of young people who went out for a better life and every day I dream of the day when I will be able to return to the most beautiful country in the world in Croatia. I know it's not the time but you are giving us hope." Maybe that's what we sent people hope for tonight and these 35 hours, not to people who vote for MOST, I repeat it to people who are watching those who are fighting for the right to go to the referendum, to have the right to choose what they want in this country and to have the right to live on their work, not just by law, to allow the law to fill the pockets of those who only live on taxpayers' money. And this is a message. All those out there, we fight [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Tonight and for you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134337	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the 837th Amendment of Honored colleague Nikola Grumoje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134338	Thank you, Vice President, for not expecting this kind of resistance, they hoped today that amendments would still be discussed, and that today they would be at 12 votes, that they would end up somewhere around 13:30, and then they would go home. They have all had some kind of scheduled obligations, but MOST has sent 888 amendments in which we are fighting for direct democracy, for the referendum of citizens, and we are also fighting for the sympathy of one wide layer of our citizens, we are fighting for that HDZ does not increase the amount of electoral promotion, so they are just pushing this law, they want to pass it before something the president sets up elections, and this is now a battle in which one political option has opposed a foreign country, which runs almost most of the county in Croatia, a good part of the cities and municipalities, which controls, controls a large part of the media in Croatia. So that option was fiercely opposed, that option is MOST, we're ready to stay here until we start falling off our feet if we have to, and here after 36 hours, we're still standing with the same energy, and exactly like our colleague Strenja reads, giving us even more motivation to endure the end to force HDZs to try to deepen their party register at midnight or after midnight. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134339	Thank you. We move to the 838th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I ask the Secretary of State to be made known about the Amendments from regular 838 to 849, since they are amendments of identical content, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134340	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, on behalf of the legislator of this law, for amendments from regular number 838 to regular number 849. The amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134341	Thank you. On behalf of the MOST Club, dear colleague Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134342	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, if we could just look at this article that he's talking about, about paying donations from unauthorized sources, if we could sum up this debate here, it would all come down to that. What are the sources that are illegal, who are the users of these sources, why do they exist, why do we even have a way of understanding and happening? And I must therefore make it clear to you that those who go to sanction any referendum initiative not to have such sources of funding must be cleaner than those who go to sanction. That is why the ruling party, HDZ as such must clear out of its ranks the existence of all forms that can refer precisely to illicit sources which we have witnessed everywhere. And just what we've been meeting in the last days around an affair with Mercedes that's what's killing our people, that's what really hurts them to have someone who comes to any position when they need to decide on hundreds of millions of kunas that can do good for our families and that those who want to stay in Croatia, create added value, eventually it's seen that this money is aimed at making personal profit. As long as we do not break out of any party's personal interests, any initiatives will certainly not be better for us, and these amendments are exactly what they are talking about and should work more on this subject, not only should they be directed towards those who are not wanted, those who may want to, perhaps by their voice, to change the essence of the people in Croatia. And that's why I'm going to ask you one more time to consider this before the vote, and I'm asking that the amendment be voted on anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134343	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. We're moving on to the 839th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134344	Thank you very much. Everything MOST has made fellow MPs from the parliamentary majority who have been neatly this whole time, you are now gathering down here, your colleagues, fellow vice president in greater numbers than Brexit, which is decided in Great Britain, amazingly which alert, MOST has shown here my fellow MPs, one small group of people, resistance to a strong force and that is that hope, it is the light at the end of the tunnel and I believe that people will feel it, but also fellow MPs will finally get out of the parliamentary majority, and also out of opposition finally have at the heart of every law, every amendment, at the heart of having a man, and not the interest groups that have robbed the Republic, which young people have driven the outside, the whole family, so that we have 2/3 of the RH empty. Of course, we need to defend the referendum, of course you wanted to connect fire and water here, and it's simply incompatible, you wanted to control the political referendum, put it under your feet, civil initiatives, in this way you won't succeed even if you voted, you want because of several million kunas, and you have activated the president of the Republic of Croatia who has not shown himself to be the president of all Croats, but rather the president of certain stakeholders, and in this way I believe that people in the Republic will, mostly young people, and all people who have been disproved because of the poor judiciary, because of the poor administration, will finally wake up and that we will find a way out of this, this crisis That's why [[Intruder: Thank you...]] I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder:...respected colleagues]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134345	We're moving on to the 840th Amendment of Honored colleague Robert Dolnjak, here you are, Professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134346	I thank Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, that we were convinced that we would have a certain dialogue with you here and that when we made certain remarks to the proposed law, which we are talking about from the first reading to the final proposal, we never really got an answer from you. For example, in these transitional and final provisions that are so important since for the first time in this law you are inaugurating both the referendum and the referendum campaigns and their funding, it was logical to expect that something would be incorporated into the transitional and final provisions. You have, for example, a provision that the procedures that have begun until the entry into force of this law, which are not completed, will be completed under the provisions of the existing law. However, what about the actions related to the referendum? But here's an example that you have a procedure that has started a referendum civil union initiative that according to the referendum law has begun. However, in this law you do not say at all what is wrong with these initiatives, and of course I cannot communicate with you when you do not want the dialogue on the law you propose, which you are hard to comply with, you have rejected all the amendments, and you will have major problems when this law comes into force, when it takes effect, if the Constitutional Court does not suspend it immediately because it is so unconstitutional, it should not actually enter into force. Searching to vote on the amendment. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134347	We move on to the 841st amendment of the respected colleague Hrvoje Runtic, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm gonna go back to these four million kunas again, and I'd like to explain it like this. So on one side there are 4 million kunas, on the other side there are citizens, on the other side there are 4 million kunas for political parties and for their promotion, and on the other side there are citizens and their lives. So that's about what we've been talking about here for two days. Now, who's on which side? Who's on the side of these 4 million kunas and who's on the side of the citizens? Well, on the 4 million kuna side, there are, say, different analysts who visit various media outlets, various different kinds of polling agencies, in fact, you could say creators and distributors of lies, and on the other hand there are freedom of speech, freedom of expression of opinion, the dignity of life of our citizens, so let's say the right to work, and the right to an honest salary, so the right to referendum expression, and now if we look at what I've briefly listed, on the side of 4 million kuna is nothing, and on the side of the citizens, some of these things that I've listed are actually constitutional categories, these are categories from, say, the UN Convention on Human Rights, etc. And in the end, I would just refer to what my colleague Sladolev said, and I also dream of the day when in this HS for 3 days and 3 nights we will constructively discuss something and bring some kind of law that is good for our citizens, and not for our capital. investors, etc. And please vote. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134349	I thank my respected colleague and we are moving on to the 842nd amendment of the respected colleague Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134350	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I will now refer to an interesting provision in this law which we have certainly referred to, and this is a provision under which in the case of crossing an independent... Who? MPs, that is, in some political party, then we know that this is the case of money, the money remains within that independent list on which these electoral successes are or are secured, but now this law provides for the transfer of an independent representative to a large party to a large party and the transfer of this chief's political policy, which is actually an open call for, well, what is it, to hunt for independent advocates because now, apart from a wider and richer club, it means an immediately richer budget, i.e. a cash register or a bag that we've talked a lot about here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's actually a very big and important foundation, completely unacceptable to our idea of political corruption. So here we have opposed and, with many amendments, I want this particular vote to be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134351	Thank you. We move on to the next amendment No. In 843, a respected colleague, Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134352	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll continue the presentation on my colleague Dobrovic. So it's the paradox of this one law that, if I've got it all together well, if a single representative, doesn't matter whether a parliamentary or a member of a representative body who is independent, or who is from the candidate list of a group of voters, even though during the term of office of the representative body, then his money for regular financing of political action goes to the political party. However, if a member of an individual political party elected on the political party's list during the term of office is independent or becomes a legal person, the candidate list of the group of voters, regardless of what he may open at that time, or could open a special account at that time, as well as the moment when he was independent, this law does not allow. Independent in this country, means independent when I say the candidate lists of a group of voters are in a much worse position than the political party, I particularly stressed this, and in my individual presentation in the first reading of this law relating to the composition of the electoral committees where you can have a representative majority from the voter's candidate list and the same 8 members, let's say, of 15, can go to the next election, by the same tax but they have no right to vote boards. With the same OIB, the same thing, they don't have the right as political parties. And we are talking about the equality of our political system in Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134353	Thank you. We move to the 845th Amendment, since there is no colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, a respected colleague of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. God Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134354	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Seven social sins include a policy without principle, and you passed that test, you have principles, a party so state, you have shown this through this bill and this fight, and at 1 a.m., we will vote this law that will make us a little money. And then it turns out the ridiculous statement by Gordan Jandrokovic that says we will fight, he would fight anyway, he would fight at 1 in the afternoon, at 1 in the morning, however, just to land something in the register. Right, just that hat. So, I'm glad if MOST taught him how to fight but he's not that caliber. He looks at the bag, wood shush will strengthen your party register but what's worse than that people will eventually be damaged because the referendum initiatives will no longer be able to run so easily. No problem, I mean the problem is when you do this procedure and this kind of rape procedure that you've done in the last 37 hours. The problem is when you give yourself more money than you need, but when you leave people without a voice, no opinion and no attitude, I call it sin. I call it that way. But, well, I believe at 37, people were able to hear what you did. Thank you... And I demand that we vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134355	I thank my esteemed colleague. We are moving on to the 846th Amendment of Honored Fellow Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134356	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary. Here, almost 10 a.m., today Friday, the minister, the minister in charge is gone and he didn't come here to defend this law. Why didn't he come to defend this law? Well, he won't be coming to defend him, so he sent you because he's bringing this law to a series of unpopular actually provisions. The law focuses on the increase in the allocation, the amounts, for the political campaign. For example, for the EU elections from a million-and-a-half kuna to 4 million kunas, and that is why it is crucial for you that at 38 hours, 39 hours as long as your breakover is over your knee to vote this law before the EU's election is called for, in fact, that's your goal. I wish that, by the example of the speed you have passed this law, it means in the very preparation of the law, in itself, the final draft of the law and in this kind of kind of way, if we were to discuss something that would matter to the citizens rather than actually to the political parties. In addition to predicting more money for political promotion, you also provide minimum per representative amounts in regional and local self-government. So, you predict that in the City of Zagreb, per representative it will be 8,000,00 kn minimum, that in the county councils it will be 5.00 kn, do you know that the Republic of Zagreb has suffered a demographic breakdown, do you know that the child's allowance is actually 2,400,00 kn, and that you are predicting 5.00 kn for political action. I'm going to beg for the proposed amendment to be held and the vote to be held, and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134357	We're moving on to the 847th Amendment of Honored colleague Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues have previously focused on this article of the law regarding independent representatives, however, something else is killing me here, which is the possibility of financing, therefore, natural persons according to different political parties and independent candidates, and now look at which provision can cause manipulation, so a certain natural person who has a particular interest in a particular representative body can finance an independent list, an independent candidate, but in order to ensure that it can finance both a particular party and it has included everything there, so it has secured itself. So, what is illogical, and probably some natural or legal person wants to donate to a particular party because of some belief, some programme, and I think it's a real example of that way of making money available to Mr. Ivica Todorovic, he publicly said that he funded election campaigns both HDZ and SDP, that he didn't care who was in power, it was important to him that this government somehow kept him alive. And instead of us learning from mistakes, learning from Agrokor, learning from Todorovic, we're making an even worse mistake. So, we think it's not good, we're going to send a message one more time that it doesn't contribute to transparency, but it opens manipulations and we're asking for a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134359	Thank you. We're moving on to the 848th Amendment of Honored colleague Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134360	Thank you. Here we are, thanking Mr. Vice President, the 848th Amendment, and we are still standing and we will stand by all 888 amendments to send only one message, to paraphrase my friend Bulj, not-so, you can vote this law, but you will no longer be able to sell the fog to the Croatian people to fight for their sake, and the only thing you're fighting for is to see these last 36 hours, it's to vote, to kill all the amendments and to vote this law, as we said it was called, a lex rumor, which you'd be making your income for your promotional activities. So, out of 1.5 million kuna, you want 4 million kunas already now for the European and parliamentary elections. We expected President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović to hear the cry from this assembly, and already today to call the elections to get past what you are trying to do, which is that elections for the European Parliament are going under the new law, unfortunately, has shown that she is the president of the citizens who are members of the HDZ, and not that she is the president of all Croatian citizens, should have heard and recorded today's elections and show how she appreciates citizens who are very hard to live and who will not look well at the fact that the additional money of the 2.5 million kuna stands out so that HDZ has the most beautiful, brightest, brightest, brightest, brightest victory in the next European elections. So I'm asking you to vote on my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134361	We're moving on to the 849th Amendment of Honored colleague Nikola Grumoje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134362	Thank you, Vice President. Since yesterday morning, so we had our first debate, then from 15 o'clock, it's now in continuity for a very long time, we're talking about this famous lex shushka, so the law that this government is trying to provide itself with additional funding for the EU election campaign, not enough for all these black funds, all these donors from PPD to Joly, so I don't know who's involved in this story, so Pripuz is a standard donor and friend of Milan Bandic, so that's all this ruling coalition. But what we wanted to send here as a message is that we simply won't let HDZ, Milan Bandic, HNS do what they want, the citizens have probably noticed, there is a colleague Curaj from HNS, all over the Republic of Croatia behind every tree, at every front, we have a HNS billboard and the mayor and bearer of the HNS list Matija Posavec smiles from it. I call on the DIP to react because this is obviously about election promotion, and outside of the election campaign it's not arranged and I think that if all those jumbo posters that HNS has set up, they've already spent this 4 million kuna if the law passes. So, they won't have any more shushes for election promotion considering how many of those jumbo posters are set up, only if something goes black. Here, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134363	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134364	Very short, thank you. Article 232, 238, therefore, does not apply to the subject of day-to-day work, and false things are presented. Namely, just to warn you, thank you for the promotion but, yes, yes, so DIP has already reported on it, so outside advertising is allowed past the campaign as a normal party activity, so here's only to correct you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134365	I thank my colleague Curai. As far as the agenda theme is concerned, you're right, but here's the thing, because we're tolerant, we don't stop and I'm not suffocating democracy, so let's let our colleagues talk. We move to the 850th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Dear Secretary of State Josipa Rimac, please give an indication of the amendments under rb. 850 to 861, since amendments are identical content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134366	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. In the name of the legislator of this law, I will show myself about the amendments of rb. 850 to rb 861, the same amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, and we therefore consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of the referendum by the same law governing the financing of other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134367	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134368	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to read this amendment, one part of it that actually speaks a lot about this subject that we are now principles. So it's political or other pressure on natural and legal persons in collecting donations. Who are the greatest masters in that? It is the HDZ that goes around, those events where they invite respected party officials, also all those who operate with numerous counties, municipalities, cities, state-owned companies, all other institutions to come and donate for the campaign. It's become, I'd say as the Americans have, except here it's a little bit more sophisticated, it's going to be safe, it's not whether someone's going to come, so maybe they won't give, but it's mandatory. And then, here's what I'm going to do in one piece of what our Prime Minister Plenkovic, ours or someone else, said, says the money is gone, I'm going to supplement the videos no, the state has to pay. Now, that seems to me exactly like that, just spilling public money through various contracts to get it back to the party. And I'm going to fix my colleague Ines, and she says I can't sell fog, and unfortunately, that's the kind of video that sells fog, and it's sold to us that's the best in the world. But he will say that a German president has come to Germany to move a million people a year and in Croatia much less, and it is a great success. So we have it, we have to do it as a fact, that's what I'd put on the posters. Here you can poster, colleague Curaj said, put on posters that the Croatian government has succeeded, moving less than a million people. I'd like a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134369	Thank you. We're moving on to the 851st amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134370	Thank you very much. I would at first just say, as far as the law of lex shushka means this lex shushka who told a colleague from the HNS it's legitimate, but there's also a lot of shush what sneaks out of legitimacy it's through a company that's what HEP or, say, employment, you followed this in Krka National Park, in Krka National Park, but that's why we've done this now from MOST. You HDZ colleagues what you want, you want to absolutely take democracy into your own hands, so it is not the Croatian PPD, this will also be agreed by counterpart Miljan Brkic, Vice President, so this is not the first gas company. He's got these shushes, they're shushing, you can't believe what they're gossiping about. You whispered here with wind power plants, did you instead of the microsolars that MOST suggests that our people in my Dalmatian Zagora have the ability to have electricity and solve means with microsolars where every product,... in Croatia, any part that can be developed and the energy system can be developed and you gave it to vertroelectric power plants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the subsidies, they went to the foreigners, as far as you got back in HNS I don't know, that's what we're gonna ask Ivan Vrdoljak, or we should've already asked him. And of course when you're PPD, there's 300 million traffic, now there's 7 billion traffic since you've been. So there's shush everywhere. And that's why people are sneaking around on all sides, sneaking through Croatia, but MOST stopped here in defense of these silencers from laws that have nothing to do with man, the real needs of 2/3 of Croatia, you snuck Croatia all over the country. I ask for a vote on the amendment because of the rustlings and the buzzards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134371	Thank you, fellow Bull, for the rest of your time. We're moving on to the 852nd Amendment of Honored colleague Robert Podlonjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134372	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. It's time to slowly sum up our key arguments why we're against the proposed law The first argument that this law will take effect within a few days and allow the election promotion that is ahead for the European Parliament elections to allow political parties and primarily the ruling and ruling parties to use not 1.5 million kuna and election promotion but 4 million kuna. [[Invadica Brkić: Please, let's not disturb our colleague, Col. Bulj and...]] Secondly, which will force local budgets to impose appropriate legislation on political parties or their councilors, and of course we know that the ruling party is the one who has absolutely the largest number of councilors in all local, municipal, city and county councils and congregations. Furthermore, which will allow for triple and multiple donations and for annual funding and for each election held for certain years, which is very restrictively restricting civil referendum initiatives and obliging them to a number of administrative tasks, although they belong here to completely different entities than they are political parties. And it wants to be settled immediately and now, regardless of the fact that there is no law on a referendum in which there should actually be a whole problem of financing, transparency of referendum initiatives, and everyone else. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134373	Amendment of the 853rd representative of Hrvoje Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134374	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, good evening, Madam Secretary of State, there's one thought I've thought of that says, who wants to find a way and who won't find an excuse. And now some things like this, events related to those two sides of that thought. If it wasn't for those who wanted to, and they found a way we probably wouldn't be sitting in this parliament today, and neither would Croatia, no. And on the other hand, when we talk about those who don't want to find an excuse, it always comes to me that one law that MOST referred to in the procedure and that doesn't come to the agenda, and that's what we call the Microsolar Act. It's something where I recognize something completely new, something that goes forward, something that opens up some new possibilities, which gives citizens the opportunity to be energy independent. So something that has to do with the future. And that law never comes on the agenda and there are always excuses, and that's one of those laws that would really give our citizens a better life in principle. And not just to citizens who live today, but to future generations. So it's practically free energy, right if I get it right. On the other hand, this law has to be passed in three days just so the political parties have more money and I don't think it makes sense. And as for the amendments, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134375	Amendment 855, excuse me, 854 MP Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134376	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, so here's about lex shush and listening to all these hours, and I guess it's already over 30 reasons, and it's always the same sentence where the political action of the citizens is mentioned, so the referendum of the political action of the citizens I realized what I'm missing here, and then when we add the word that the referendum is the unwanted political action of the citizens, then this completes the whole meaning of those sentences, because they are quite summed up and short and then only one of these additions is rounded up, and I would stand on it. I'm going to beg to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134377	Amendment 855 of MP Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134378	As for this amendment, which tries to correct the law that has been set aside for the EU elections, parliament plans to raise and raise itself, according to the census bill, to finance the electoral promotion. It is not clear to me again, I repeat the xy times tonight and today and yesterday, given that the parliamentary majority in the electoral polls is so good and that such prosperity is in Croatia and all for a good flower, literally as we say we are running honey and milk across the street, which is why raising censorship, which is why large election promotions, spending in marketing in the beauty of reality, what they are afraid of, may be the citizens who can clearly see Croatia's reality with healthy eyes. I say there's one number, a fact that no marketing agency can embellish, not a single video that's the number of people leaving the Republic of Croatia, it's not just young people anymore, it's complete families, and people are the biggest resource of our country. Therefore, we are left without the biggest resources, and obviously the parliamentary majority is trying to make a difference with all the daily events that are questions whether they have the cover to make the most of the campaign to achieve electoral success, and ultimately, Of course. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134379	Amendment 856, MP Ivana Nijević-Lesandric, is missing. Eighty-five-seven MPs, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134380	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for your position as State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, so I'm glad this all happened. Citizens have once again had a chance to see what any party is fighting for here for the start, you're fighting for the mouse, tonight you're going to vote lex shushka, great. We fight with you all the time explaining that this must not be the reason why it has been debated in continuity for 37 hours, you do not hear, but citizens hear, and if they have left the Republic of Croatia I believe that after these 37 hours some will stay in the Republic because we have shown them an example that if you fight and if you have a goal, you win. You will accept defeat, you have lost today, and you have lost not from us, you have lost in the eyes of the public, you have lost dramatically, just laugh, because when people see that you are ready for 37 hours here to be, to force staff and MPs to get those 2-3 million kunas, and at the same time you don't care how the average citizen feels, nor the average citizen of that law has anything, I asked you, none of it has anything, nor the farmer, nor the entrepreneur, nor the young, nor the pensioner, nor the family, nor any of you, it's clear to the people of the Republic today, and you will see it all, and it won't save you from these 2.5 million kunas that you're going to put on the Republic, you won't be able to save you, it won't see, nor the videos that you't see, nor the videos that call for you. Your President [[Intruder: Do you want to...]] Of course I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134381	The next amendment is the 858th Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134382	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, it's 10 o'clock, the minister hasn't arrived yet, and he's really not coming, because he's not going to be there because he trusted you to defend this indefensible law and why he'd come to have a state secretary at the Ministry of Management of us, you, at least when I was there there there was 132 employees, now I don't know how many of you, I think it's 147, but I wouldn't want to say wrong. What I would like to say is that, in fact, this proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities, election campaigns and referendums, this article that I have proposed to delete, should be an integral part of the referendum law. In the first, so, reading Professor On behalf of the club, Podolnjak made a number of concrete remarks and ways to define certain legal provisions, but nothing was respected. We also referred 888 amendments to this poor bill of law to actually improve it in certain parts, but the government rejected all these laws. It's also been 37, how many hours have you been discussing here to actually get that 2.5 million kuna before the EU elections are called, and I must also say that during that time and law, the Election Law and the Law on maternity and parental support and the amendments to the Law on Education and Changes of the Law on Heat Energy, the amendments to the Law on Self-Energy, all this awaits in the HS agenda, but this means to you, and to the citizens And the citizens will already somehow... [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I want a vote, thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134383	Thank you. One correction, not 888, but only 75, but all others are identical. But we're going to 859.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here we are at the end of the amendments, there are about 30 amendments left, slowly, so the views have been crystallized, of course through this big debate. What in some way hurts or perhaps bothers the statements of the ruling majority who consider that there is nothing disputed in that law, but I don't think they even studied it, Mr. Miro Kovac thought that this law applied exclusively to parliamentary representatives i.e. to the equipment and administrative support of the parliamentary deputies, but what actually worries and pains is if it is true, so I can't argue that it is, but we heard that, that without these funds, Prime Minister Plenkovic said that we couldn't film the video, so I don't know if it's true, but I don't think it's a good statement, that it's not a good message, especially at the moment when the ruling majority has available Croatian state television, but I generally think that the best government, therefore, would be the best pirate and best promotion should be its work. So, if citizens are satisfied, if citizens are happy, if citizens are socially secured, then you don't need any videos to show it, so citizens feel it on their skin, so the best pirate is actually the government's work, but citizens are unhappy, 75% of the citizens are unhappy and now the government thinks some videos solve that perception and ask to vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134385	Amendment 860 of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I will repeat once again, we are here primarily for citizens and because of citizens we have invested 888 amendments that we wanted to say that this behavior of rulings is absolutely unacceptable, that we cannot accept the fact that they want to meet their greater needs for, the need for a greater amount of money that would make themselves a better campaign for the European Parliament. But what is a fact and what has been evident in the last 37 hours since we entered this assembly yesterday, which is that we are the only ones in the Assembly who are fighting for a referendum public statement because it is their constitutional right to fight against HDZ alone who wants to increase revenues enormously through this law, revenue for their political activities. And it can't go through the citizens. You will probably vote this law tonight in some small hours but the citizens know well and will in no way actually support you in what will come after that, so the citizens have seen it. To increase from 1.5 million to 4 million kuna is rude, it's money that you could help hundreds of kids who leave high school because parents don't have a show card that's enormously expensive just because you haven't found the same way as the state found the mechanisms to keep private car carriers under control but to allow practically wild prices to remove these children from the world of education I demand a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134387	Amendment to the 861st legislator of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134388	Dear Vice President, here we are again hanging out and I'm glad that already your colleagues from HDZ weren't there to defend the law at all, the government's law if we had put you through a little bit of trouble and that you had to be here on a few occasions with us tonight about three hours, which today during the day and here again now is the sacrifice you had to bear to get to the few million that are so important to you. Of course, you wouldn't come here at such a small hour to vote on some law or to discuss some law regarding our citizens, regarding judicial reform, regarding our farmers, our entrepreneurs, our workers, that's not what you're interested in, but when it comes to your party money, when it comes to this lex rumor that our colleague Bulj originally called it, or I don't know who from the club, then you're ready for all the victims. So I'm glad that we've at least dragged you out these two days, it was clear that your intentions are such that you're going to pass the law, you'll probably bring it tonight in small hours, I don't know when the vote will start, probably around midnight, there's a lot of points, it could take up to 3 o'clock. The opposition will probably not be there and you will be ashamed of yourself here in the Croatian Parliament for the way you pass this law, especially for the purpose of which you adopt such a law. But you'll have to wear it and it's your responsibility and it goes on your cheek as Vice President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134389	We're going to the 862nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134390	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the legislator of this law, I am aware of the amendments of rb. 862 to rb. 873. The same amendments are not accepted for reasons because the referendum is the form of political action of citizens, so we consider it appropriate to regulate the funding of referendum activities by the same law that regulates and finance other political activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134391	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the esteemed representative Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134392	Here's a nice greeting to the vice president of the Parliament for joining us here, the honorary secretary of state. In this article, the essence of people who want to engage, personal engagement, their leadership is to change a particular environment, or to change the course of action on a particular subject. And then what do we come up with? We are coming precisely to the fact that the independent councilman, the representative, the list holder, those who actually put themselves first, who are most exposed to attacks and political and disputings and to the disdains that their families listen to and their friends listen to just because they started and became politically opposed. And after that, his mistake, one mistake that he made administratively in something costs him up to 20,000 kuna. It's looking at the salaries of MPs in this esteemed home, it's slightly higher than one salary. For someone who lives in some of our rural areas it can be 5.6 salaries and it's certainly not easy to tell him I want to do something. Everyone wants to make it, but they don't want to be the victim of bureaucrats and this kind of law that hides a series of toothpicks, where every step can make a mistake. And it turns out that, not that this law is lame, but that there's a wig that clears these people from money and shows them don't deal with what big parties know best. We'll do it, it's our area and we'll take that money. Because you know what it is? Every independent councilman's less money is for the party, and probably those independents now have enough already that the party doesn't have enough funds. And I'd like to vote on this point. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134393	Amendment 863 of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134394	The referendum was supposed to solve a number of things. You in this House did not accept the amendment when I asked for the Most Independent Lists and myself personally not to sell agricultural land since 2020. The case of the introduction of the euro, the sale of water, sources, management... to the good of the sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no referendum and that's the problem. That's the key problem with this proposal of yours, lex shush. That's why, I said earlier, in that way as I said, the whole of Croatia is just shush, peanuts. The referendum is essentially euthanized by this law by your proposal. Lovro Kuscevic is a legal initiative to amend the electoral law and another initiative that also received a number of votes, I don't know, I wasn't involved in the initiative. He crushed those two initiatives, humiliated them, and humiliated all the future initiatives he said no, there is no referendum, but he violates the Constitution. That's why the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Rainer, this is your fault, and you shouldn't have let this happen, even if it's on the agenda, and now you can pull this off. You still wear the knight's title as guardian of Jerusalem's tomb, it would be honorable for you to protect the future and hope for Croatian citizens, which the Bridge has proved in this act, and you were the first to never hope that we would be here. Yes, of course I'll vote, only for you. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134395	Amendment 864 of Agent Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134396	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. When it comes to the regulation of the referendum, i.e. the referendum campaigns and the financing of the referendum in this proposed law, which is the paper in regulating the political promotion and the law that has regulated so far only the electoral promotion, where in fact the part that is highly restrictive to all future citizens' referendum initiatives. Entities that arise spontaneously, by engaging citizens, to address a particular or local issue or some issue that is important at national level, for example, the association against a certain law that has been passed, such as the current Union Initiative against Pension Reform, is a specific form of civic engagement that is very different from the political parties or independent candidates who perform in election processes. And so, it was absolutely inappropriate, this form of civic activity, which should be nurtured and encouraged, regulated in a very restrictive way, which in any way is actually trying to make it difficult and intimidated by potential referendum initiatives, sanctions, which are competing with any administrative errors they might commit. I demand a vote on the amendment that... [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like to vote?]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134397	Amendment of 865th Representative Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There are some games, football games, let's say one team plays better, has bigger balls, has better players, etc. But in the end, it happens that the worse team ends up winning the score, the 2-1. But after the game, the people watching the game, talking around, who's actually the real winner of that game. And so here, we've been playing one game here for two days now. So what's the point of that game? You will eventually gather your MPs, do the vote and vote this bill. But by voting this law, you didn't win the game, you just showed what mattered to you. So we showed, which is important to us, you showed what matters to you and that's okay, it's democratic, no. You've shown that what's important to you is what my colleague Miro Bulj keeps calling shushka, meaning money, money, funds, money, etc. jumbo cry, according to your nickname, how hard it is to do a promotion without television commercials. And we have proved, in fact, that we care about citizens and that it is urgent for us to vote here in this House for the benefit of our citizens. And that's it. We actually won and I'm asking the vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134399	Amendment 866 of MP Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134400	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, fellow Runtic, you said it nicely, so here was an attitude of approach, so one approach and another approach. The first approach is this from the plighted policy and the stolen referendum, which radiates with a message, which simply drives people, and this policy has been present for a long time in Croatia, and we are therefore, having no idea of any demographic policy, which would at all keep people, let alone encourage something else. And so it was important today to show a second approach, another approach which is possible to build a political system that will be with man, for man and of course, a referendum as a normal tool for communication, for very good communication with that man, self-aware part, or part of society. Thank you very much. I'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134401	Amendment of 867th Representative Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134402	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we see in the halls of parliament more activity, the arrival of HDZ representatives, or MPs of the parliamentary majority, and in Croatia it is to conclude that two things are coming back. Return always to Claptan and return to the Assembly when it is necessary to vote the law with which the censorships for political activities are raised, or when they need to provide better election results through some PR marketing, videos, videos etc., although until the moment of election promotion everything is nice, nice and wonderful in Croatia. Polls of more than 30% of the ruling, each time exulted in the publication, but apparently, the price hike of up to 4 million kunas is required either for the president or president of the future, 8 million kunas, from current, retail 4. So much to decorate this harsh reality, a reality that is not good at all, when we look at the rates of economic growth of Croatia that are twice as much as the competitive countries in the neighborhood. When we look at a number of other parameters, the fact, so when you look at the parameters of world economic forums that say that our efficiency of public administration can be compared with the efficiency of the public administration of Venezuela and so on. It's our reality that's trying to raise some censorships like this to provide certain marketing videos, a little more funding for election promotion, and now that you're looking at the activities of parliamentary deputies, you don't want the state budget to be voted tonight. There, that's the measure we've come to. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134403	Amendment 868 of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. She's gone. 869th God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134404	The Honorable Chairman. Did you sweat to get to the vote of lex shush? I think so. [[Intruder: I didn't.]] I believe you sweated to get to that 2, 3 million shush. And we promised you that you'd sweat because we saw that you only cared about the shush. It's not about people. And what, these 38 hours of your frightful humming and searching for that shush, I just got the impression of that guy, I don't know if you've heard of Smeagol? Look at Smeagolla and my precious. That's what you looked like. And he didn't see anything in his eyes except gold, there's no people, there's no value, there's nothing, just a ring. My precious. That's what you've looked like these 38 hours, and that's why I'm glad we tortured you. And what I like even more, and people have seen it. And people saw that all you cared about was that. Just to the shush. Not to them. And people, most importantly, have seen another group of people, who also know how to fight, but for real values. That they can fight for both freedom and for people and ideals and when they don't give them a chance. We showed you how to fight. We showed Croatia how to fight for 38 hours you did everything in order to give up. You've tried everything. I believe it will never happen again, it will be remembered if you didn't allow a minute of time to break us. You didn't break us. You won't break us because we fight for the right values, unlike you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134405	Are you asking for a vote? Here's my colleague Pernar, what's the injured Rules of Procedure, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134406	... Excuse me. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The Honorable Chairman has been injured. 222. Rules of Procedure. On Fridays, after sunset, Saturdays began, God told the Book of Exodus 20, 9 verse not to break Saturdays, or to shine it and not to work on that day, and by changing it to the Rules of Procedure, you were in fact a human surrender. Canceled God’s Command [[Thank you very much.]] It says at Mark 7:13 that this is a delusion [[Thank you very much.]] And my recommendation is that, that simply this session stop to Saturday [[Thank you very much.]] It shines in peace. [[Thank you very much. That's a great thing you said.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134407	Thank you very much. Of course he wasn't hurt by the Rules of Procedure. 870th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134408	Dear Vice-President of HS, the Honorable State Secretary. Here is the Law on the financing of political activities, election campaigns and referendums. The proposed amendment concerns that I propose that this article actually be deleted because it is an integral part of this content should be an integral part of the referendum law that has yet to be adopted. When the secretary of state, on behalf of the ministry, said that the government rejected certain amendments or any amendments proposed by the Most Club, called for transparency, it called for transparency. I must say that this law is very good, it has very good mechanisms in the direction where, in fact, how political parties will be financed. Thus, it provides political parties with a minimum of national, local, actually regional budgets for certain minimum guaranteed amounts. It also provides donors with not one donor but any donor could give any number of political parties or independent representatives or councilors a specific donation. So unlimited. Now that they've solved these two things where they can actually have secured funding, now they actually need to be solved when that funding is obtained, a legal way to spend it in a promotional campaign, and that's why we've been here for 38.9 hours and that's that for European elections you don't have 1.5 million kuna but 4 million at your disposal and I'd like to vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134409	Amendment to the 871st legislator, Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134410	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you know what the greatest paradox of this law is? The HDZ needs money for election promotion with HRT. So what do you need money for election promotion when you have HRT? So you have the first 15 minutes of the Dnevnik in prime time, well otherwise it's poorly watched RadioTelevision so maybe they're trying on someone else but what's really scandalizing so today is Prime Minister Plenkovic's statement that a million-and-a-half kuna is little, that they can't promote their list and their genius successes of economic, demographic, educational, all possible successes and actually every good work of government should be her PR. So unfortunately this is not so, 75% of citizens think they live badly and now the government with these 4 million kunas some I don't know, jumbo posters and videos, photoshopped faces trying to make up for all the situations to eventually get some more representatives in the Euro Parliament. So the message is bad, the message is again focused on politicians, on political elites, not on citizens, and besides, I don't know what kind of video this Croatian reality could be, we live in a real world, I don't think citizens can try that kind of thing anymore, and we're asking it to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134411	Are you asking for a vote? 872. Amendment of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must immediately refer to the debate on this amendment of mine to what my colleague Sladolev said, but what surprised me even more... You want for the president except for 4 million, you want 8 million. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Instead of a million-and-a-half for the European Parliament you want 4 million, citizens will see it... citizens will reward it in their own way because citizens are hard to live in this country. And what is a fact which is that clearly HDZ feared its possible poor outcome in the European Parliament elections. He was scared, and that's why you're so furiously pushing this bill, raping this law and going all the way, you haven't been able to stop and wait for this law to go to some normal time, but despite our 888 amendments that should have just been a warning to you that something was wrong with this law, you want to vote it at all costs before the President calls the elections for the European Parliament. So you need money so much and you're so insecure about what you're trying to achieve, it's not good, you need to believe, all the polls tell you that you're the strongest, the smartest, the most beautiful, and that you have a safe passage and you're going to have six mandates, maybe 7.8 etc. So you have to believe in yourself, we e.g. We believe in ourselves, and that's why we've endured these 36 hours. Thank you. The vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote or not?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134413	The 873rd Amendment of MP Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134414	In the Croatian Parliament, you never met with such resistance as were provided by the parliamentary representatives of MOST, 36.7 hours, nor do I know how much resistance we are giving you here, in a valid intention to increase the funds for political promotion, which shows that HDZ is not as good as they want to convince us of your rating agency, your media, because that is how it is, you would not have fought so terribly for this 2.5 million kuna here. We see that the big market within the HDZ, for months, has been trying to create the impression that MOST is losing ratings and we know on the ground, in these people who have come to us tonight in front of the Croatian Parliament that we have never been stronger, this will show these European elections and that people recognize who are fighting for the right values, who has been struggling here these two days not to increase money for political promotion and so that you do not make it difficult for the citizens to make a referendum statement. No country has such difficult conditions for calling a referendum, 14 days, almost 400,000 signatures, and when it comes together, then you come up with some invalid and the secretary of state comes along, says they'll give us an insight, so come to the club and bring us our signatures that we signed, even though the minister from the pay phone told us that we're going to get to see the invalid signatures, it's just a hoax, you're swindling, you're talking about a nonstop stop in some kind of affairs, and the citizens recognize it, you won't be able to cheat any more Croatian citizens. Euro elections, requesting a vote. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134415	874th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134416	I thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives, on behalf of the legislator of this law, I am aware of the amendments from the regular number 874 to 885, the same amendments are not accepted for reasons as they facilitate financial operations and reduce the obligations of independent representatives and independent council members who have become members of political parties who participate in the Croatian Parliament or in the representative body of the units of local and regional self-government. The number of surveillance entities is reduced which contributes to more effective supervision, while retaining the same standards of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134417	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134418	Thank you very much, respected secretary of state, by adopting this article, we have opened the season of hunting, hunting for independent councilmen. Whoever gets caught by a party doesn't just get his hand, he gets his money. So the whole thing gets it. So far, it's possible that you get his vote, but he keeps the money, so it's not enough and we see what my colleagues have listed, it's probably money missing, it's probably a crisis, and it's a little bit of what this one councilman gets, and he needs it taken. So it won't be over now just so you vote for us, but you have to go to the party, give the money, and then we actually have you, we have you in full. Is this how there's always danger while he's got the money at his disposal? Maybe he'll throw himself away again. And this is hardly a proposal we can support, is it an invitation, an open call to hunt? I think we're talking about the law on pre-election promotion financing, and we're not talking about hunting law. Every independent councilman elected from the voters' list he thus received the trust of a group, that the group wanted the council member to be a member of a party or that his vote went to a party he would probably have done so before. And that is why we find it unacceptable that such a transition actually means betraying the trust of those who have entrusted the voice to an independent. There is one fight between parties there are different actions, but they are independent they are just declaring themselves as someone who is not part of a party family and as such thinking with his own head And we're looking for this amendment vote. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134419	Amendment to the 875th Representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134420	President, you didn't expect to be and chair the assembly at this time, you didn't expect this kind of resistance, you didn't treat your fellow parliamentary deputies humanely, you thought if you didn't give a break that we wouldn't last 40 hours and we wouldn't get to these 800 amendments, but there was a group of people, I'm proud of her who gave you huge resistance. And I'm really happy, too, and I'm glad when I went out a little while ago to get a yogurt and a keg because I've been here all day, what's been waiting for us, what's been welcomed by a very large group of citizens who support us on what we've done and the resistance that's going to show you citizens. Citizens expect only hope and light that was in the '90s. the years when people went to fight all together and complex for the free, democratic Republic and where there will also be the freedom that you, in our assembly, have announced to us by amending the Rules of Procedure what is going to happen in the media, so today the police are going to check on the mayor's invitation and create pressure. Today we have HTV who investigates and sues our journalists, today we have the braking of referendum initiatives by this law against the great hero of man Praised Jesus who always greets Lovre Kuščević who has left all night to defend his wife here indefensibly. Just for the sake of the word, this is a lex mouse. The HDZ is only important that the HNS and the HNS are from HEP, the wind power plant, not construction, anything but rustling. And this is really lex shush and this is what the people saw That because of the noise and your not expecting us to do it like this, but we made you see that it's not easy for you. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134421	876th Amendment of Agent Robert Dolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134422	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues here is what my colleague Panenić says we have often stressed in this two-day, three-day debate anymore. Political corruption, which is visible from the plane in the provisions of this law, allowing someone originally elected as an independent representative or council member to transfer the money he earned as an independent councilman to the political party during the term of office. So far, in all these years of the Croatian democratic, parliamentary system, we have not had such a provision. So it could have been that independent representatives or councilors voted for some political option, in a way to bow down to some political party, could even become members of that political party formally and, however, the money was never transferred to the political party. Why introduce this paper as a political party with the largest number of MPs and councilors in the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, is the impression that you will benefit especially from HDZ and therefore we are absolutely against... You don't have to, let the vice president agree, I've had one more sentence, and that's to ask for a vote on the amendment table. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134423	Amendment 877 of MP Hrvojo Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When it comes to money, about Switzerland, people who are senseless, who are visionless, who are then in line with this vision do not do anything, so they have no results, to be present in public they need scandals, affairs, they have to constantly place, three times a day they have to place an affair to be present and to talk about them and then of course the public needs to share, part of the public against, part of the public for and so on, it's known, everyone who works in the media and in those marketing agencies etc. These are people who are, therefore, visionless, these are people who are warmed up by the day before yesterday, and they're vomity, and so on. And they actually need that money to place those scandals and affairs. And now I'm going to tell you what's the catch joke about. The world's largest companies today, for example. Bill Gates started you out of a garage with no money, created one of the biggest companies in the world. Steve Jobs did the same thing to you, today they have all the apps of a product, on each one, right here, there must be at least two ipphones between us. This is how the Amazon came to you, so it's one of the world's largest, Alibaba, one of the world's largest companies, it's all come to you in a garage with no money. Google was created like that, Facebook, so the biggest social network owned by Instagram and WhattsApp and other platforms were created by, I don't know, three students somewhere in college started a website where you click whose face you like, who you like, who you don't. So, the world's largest companies were created without money, you just need to be creative, and you're not creative, you're, like, people without visions [[/Intruder: Voting?]] I'm always looking for a vote, I'm here if I can subscribe to requesting a vote. [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134425	It wouldn't work like that. 878th Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134426	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, here I also draw attention to all of us who have not noticed, and also to the Croatian public to this interesting provision that I was just talking about, and now he has said it a little more nicely both by his colleague Panenic and his colleague Podolnjak. Not that the transfer is possible, therefore, by an independent representative from a group of voters to a political party, but also by hand all the money that belongs, therefore, resulting from the election success. It is a very unusual situation that allows large parties to literally collect them according to individual election units. Here, I'd just end up with that and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134427	879th Amendment of Representative Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Finally, among the last of my amendments to sum up today's debate, we see that this bill, yours in quotes, decentralisation of decisions where the units of local self-government and representative bodies are re-imposed to introduce a minimum censorship for the financing of political work to parties represented in municipal and urban and county councils obviously do not want to leave themselves to the independence of decisions and there is quite a vague fate, which, if they are now in force, is the decision that is less than this legal provision, which should now be made by the mayor, the mayor of some municipality to make changes to the budget because it is already in the final provisions, in breach of certain provisions on it can apply these final provisions. Where is the independence of deciding local self-government units? Obviously, the whole law is aimed at filling the political parties' cash registers in one way and discharge in a legal way, in another way by increasing the censorship for the financing of the electoral promotion. We see that the EU's parliament is increasing to 4 million kuna, and I don't think we've increased the number of inhabitants twice over this period of 5 years, and not reduced it, that's the same contradiction of our public administration, the growing population in the Republic of Croatia, and the administration is growing and bigger, and it's actually one image of a political system that this parliamentary majority illustrates in the way the public administration and public enterprises work, election law and everything else, and whether it continues like this. You'll get RH in 50 years. with residents who will be exclusively [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]] only have HDZ cards. [[Intruder: Probably not]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134429	Amendment 880 by Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, not present. Next 881st Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134430	My precious, shushka. All men have seen, Your Honor. How he fights for people and how he fights for the mouse. They saw everything. And the strongest argument I've ever heard is why you need your president, who said there are no TV spots without a whisper. Now it would be very interesting to see if there were TV spots in 2014 when he competed for the EU elections. If they were TV videos, and then there was no noise, how did he pay for TV videos without a whisper? We could start questioning some of that. That's why my dear people, when you look at the smiling, smiling faces from big posters in the next two months, then know that for those smiling faces here, they've been crawling around here for 38 hours like Smeagoll for my beautiful HDZs. And as Smeagoll became Gollum, so did you. You're from one movement that created the state, you've come to the fact that your friend Tajani, who treats Istria and Dalmatia Italian. And you don't give him up. You've come to this within 20 years, you have nothing to do with people or people or life. That's what you came up with, and that showed you these 38 hours. All you've been holding on to these 38 hours is, as fellow Bull says, a whisper. There's no family here, an entrepreneur, no pensioner, no one, [[Intruder: Are you looking for a vote?]] except for the shush. [[/Intruder: Probably not.]] I ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134431	888th Amendment of Representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134432	The Honorable and Honorable Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State. I'm actually here, I wrote myself a review here, actually of this law, which says, you've provided yourself with generous donations through the legislative framework in a way that you predict that a natural person can pay more parties or independent councilors on a regular basis, for regular funding, 30 thousand kunas, and then even if there are some elections, then so much more. The same thing is for legal persons, legal persons 200 thousand kuna, and if there are other regular elections, such as these EU elections, then there are both presidential and 200 thousand more. Then, the second thing you've done is increase the isolation for political promotion, so that's, we said, this million-and-a-half, to 4 million kunas for the EU elections, but what's a key element in which you're actually going to count on that part of the electoral body is that you haven't implemented public administration reform. There it is. The 27.9 billion kuna was the allocations in 2018 for salaries. The 29.1 billion kunas were the detachments in 2019. What is evident is, in fact, even though you have the resources available, of 880 million kuna, you have spent 17 thousand kuna. So that's what you spent on public administration reform, and money has been available in Croatia since 2015, so these two combinations where you actually have money, secured money for political promotion and unreformed public administration, that's how you actually secure I want to, yeah. [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134433	Next is the 883rd Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, this, the explanation of the amendments, I'm going to start with one theological thought, which is that evil in the world is present because of the lack of good and that darkness is present in the world just because there's not enough light. I think we were the light of the Croatian people at these 35 hours. I think we lit up the face of politics in the Croatian people. At least that's what the citizens say who text us say. So it's a very simple thing. That in a country that has so many poor, in a country where children do not have adequate health care, in a country where excellence is not rewarded, we send a message of investment to political parties. So, I have to admit that I can't wait to see this video, that famous video of Mr. Plenkovic and those 12 people on the list for the EU Parliament, and I have to say that I can't wait to see that video turn the public perception of the party in power. I think that the party to its PR should do reforms, that its PR on economic development, that its PR should work on a better life of citizens and personally, therefore, I think that in these 35 hours we have sent real messages and I expect to vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134435	Amendment 884 to Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134436	Your Honor, Vice President. Yeah. We have proven that this country is still worth fighting for. That this is a country for which there are more people who are willing to fight and that there are more people who recognize it. And we know that they recognized, by all those messages of support that we've been getting all these hours while we're out here fighting for these 888 amendments of ours. Do you know how much money will be spent from taxpayers, tens and tens of millions, to ask only for the president instead of $4.8 million for the pre-election campaign, only for your European Parliament, for elections and campaigns for the European Parliament, for an increase from 1.5 million to 4 million kuna and so on. When we look at the budgets of very poor municipalities that will have to separate from their modest budgets money for political parties, it becomes clear that you are actually not interested in this people at all. You're not interested in kids who can't get to school because they don't have the money to show off because you weren't inventive enough, sensitive enough, socially sensitive enough to ensure that all the kids who go to high school and everyone who goes to college, who are students, can have a free show card, it's just one small part. You've got social care that's completely messy in part of the staff, so, not that people don't do their job well, but they just don't have them. 7,000 of them care about half a million of our citizens [[Intruder: Would you like to vote?]] It was all something in which [[Intruder: Probably not...]] You could have invested. [[Intruder:... since you didn't say]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134437	Amendment 885 of Agent Nikola Grumoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134438	Dear Vice President, we're resisting 37 hours, we're going to defend this few more amendments here, and I'm calling on some opposition representatives not to accidentally fall into the trap of holding the HDZ quorum, and I see that there's a colleague of Varga, whom my colleague Ines Strenja praised as a good health minister, and I hope he's not going to be the one who holds the quorum of HDZ and the rulings. I ask you all that when this declaration of amendments is completed that we withdraw from, so, this assembly, there's no point in sitting here with them, their intentions are quite clear, they've refused all the amendments, and now it's the process of collecting most, collecting quorums, reminding you that this law that they intend to pass, organic law, they need 76 hands to be passed, and, so we can't possibly allow them, we need to stop them, here I am asking you all for help, some accusing the portals that you haven't left us from the opposition, but you couldn't really, you couldn't sit there, but without any reaction because you just haven't given them any amendments, so that your sitting here would be completely pointless, but you can help us now with the vote on, so this bill, and here I hope that no one can hold the quorum of the colleagues here that have already, some of which has already happened, we can say, but that it was immoderate, This time the error must not happen again. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134439	The 886th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134440	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives, on behalf of the Proposer of this Law, for the amendments of the ordinary No. 886 to regular No. 887, and the same amendments are not accepted for reasons because we believe it is necessary to provide minimum common standards in relation to the amount of funds provided in the budgets of units of local and regional self-government for the regular annual financing of political parties and members of representative bodies in units selected from the voter group list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134441	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134442	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, of course, it is the autonomous right of every local self-government to set priorities in its development. If the members of the municipal, city, county, municipal city council or the county assembly determine that compensation for political action should be appropriate for them to be small or something big, I think it is something they should decide for themselves. If they have other development priorities, if they have other needs for their residents, then it is logical, of course, that those funds that would be for political action will be rerouted to development projects, and not to be required under the law to look at what you are doing right now, which is to ensure the party's income based on the number of representatives in HS. I hope the amendment we're giving you right now indicates that don't be someone who runs the entire system. Should it be discussed at all that the ministry through the government, through a law passed on to the HS that is likely to adopt the ruling majority, will force some local self-government to distribute the funds to its councilors. What if the councillors there say we don't want it, we want help, then they're going to have to look for a way to point it where it's needed and what have we done? We are actually dealing with politics at the lowest level, we are going to enter practically if we should and the local committee in which we are going to say no, no, you have to give them and they are elected and they have to act politically. I think you're making a big mistake with this way and we need to let local self-government determine for itself. I'm looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134443	Amendment to the 887th Representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134444	Here's the 38th hour since we've been defending to kill the amendments. We want to constructively point out that this law is essentially anti-constitutional if you simply combine fire and water, in the same basket you throw a referendum, financing a referendum and financing political activities of political parties. Therefore, it is anti-constitutional, and as far as the referendum is concerned, it should be regulated by a special law because it is simply incompatible, there must not be a handful of policy over civil initiatives because these citizens' initiatives and arise and raise referendums and referendum issues due to dissatisfaction with political parties which govern either the state or local self-government or regional self-government. But I saw here in the hallway now, it's so crowded really when it's a state of emergency, even I see that there's the prime minister's advisors, the spokesman, so obviously that he'll come to the Prime Minister, and we've managed, the colleagues from MOST, that at this hour when it's unpredictable, when the parliamentary representatives are mostly down the halls, I barely got in, I thought I'd be late on the line, now I've caught some air to walk, there's just so much siege in the Assembly halls, it's amazing, I have to say that because of the people, the panic is huge, of course they'll find the broken majority, but we've still made the first prime ministers walk down the hall, the parliamentary representatives are coming now, we can't say you won't. In the future, you won't do as you've done before. The referendum is right Of course I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134445	888th Amendment of Agent Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134446	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In several data officially published by political parties which made their financial reports for the past year. Thus, as the party with the highest representative, the councilman in local self-government, last year, in 2018, received 43 million kuna, spent 30 million and has a surplus of 13 million kuna. Look, if they've made $43 million and haven't spent it, then the logical question is why do you still want to go through the local budgets with this new law? Why? Well, it's not enough for you, you have a huge surplus, 13 million kuna, so what else do you grab additional and force local budgets, Vrgorac and those who burn, these small towns, etc. So it's not enough for you? And those are official numbers. You have 13 million kuna surplus, so with that you entered 2019. Well, of course you're a little short on spending a million and a half kuna on European elections and you have 13 extras from last year. I'm surprised you decided only four million, I guess you couldn't jump to more than a million and a half. And now it's clear that you actually have to spend. And what message is that to the citizens? Through the budget, funded by political parties, your biggest share is from the budget. You don't have a donation, a little less than six million from membership fee. Over 34 million from the budget I want a vote on the amendment. [[Intruder Reiner: Are you looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134447	889th Amendment of MP Hrvoje Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'd just like to sum up a little bit, but before that, I'd like to announce one thing. Now we're going to have a big PR show where there's going to be a lot of waving hands, rubbing these joints, looking left, right, etc., I'm not going to go into the content alone because it's always the same and boring but I'd like to actually say this. So the country called Croatia in which you are now raising that amount to 4 million to spend it, to list in the campaign is the country where we have 850,000 residents living at risk of poverty. That's every fifth person. Most of these people are among the older people. The risk of poverty or social exclusion is 28%. The whole time we grew up, GDP grew and poverty grew. Your relationship with citizens and people in general could be seen in these two days and one night as you treated employees here in the Parliament. Homeless people are one category where one thing is particularly scary next to how many there are is that they're between 15 and 89 years old, they're people who live in parks, who sleep on benches, when the police catch them then punish them for wandering. We have so much blocked that this figure is now returning to close to 300,000 after that phenomenal reform of yours, or your law package that you saved blocked. Our kitchens are full, our social shops are empty and this is Croatia where you want to list 4 million kunas and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134449	890th Amendment of Representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134450	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The increasing cost of promotion, or for the PR, why should they be growing? So because reality is actually getting sadder and more real, or reality is in a pretty bad state and of course it takes more effort, more money to make that sadder state more beautiful, so that people might conclude and see pretty icons, to see interesting messages, short, very skillfully prepared, that maybe it's really not as bad as they think it is. So the more PR the worse. It would be much better if money were spent on development projects, on more, there's prosperity in society, for various reasons, which in itself would cause more satisfaction and ultimately, I think the need for the PR would be less, especially for those who are responsible for this situation. Thank you very much and please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134451	891st Amendment of Representative Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134452	What to say, Mr. Vice President, after two days, that is, a day and a half of debate, has not even been debated, 38 hours, debates, not to discuss the state budget. Less debate on the state budget than the law on funding is discussed, i.e., you care, we could end this debate next week under normal conditions, but you made a mistake, when setting up the agenda, the Parliament's agenda this late, realizing that you will probably withdraw, and that you will easily pass the law in a more polite hour. And in fact, all of this is one, when you sum up, the cycle in those 38 hours, and we see now how slowly the assembly halls are filled, as the congregation's majority slowly arrives, comes. We see in fact how important it is to you, to ensure the censorships significantly increased for the proper round of elections, both the EU elections and the presidential elections, and you will likely increase the censorships before the local elections, because you think that this people has a short memory, that you will be able to use an aggressive media campaign, which will cost the most in the history of Croatian politics, that you will be able to demonstrate differently the Croatian reality which is just not great. That is enough to be said by many people who leave 150 leave Croatia daily, and you are now increasing, all the censorships of maltene by double, if not more. Of course I'm asking for a vote. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] Not to ask for a vote, but to request the government's resignation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134453	So you're not asking for a vote? Great. The 892nd amendment, MP Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, is gone. The 893rd Amendment of Representatives, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134454	My dear President, I hear you're having such a hard time gathering the quorum that your boss of the party has come to collect people, like tokens, like pokémons in the House, is such a problem. For 38 hours, you've been pushing MPs and staff to get the money. 38 hours and so long you're willing to vote for them at 1 a.m. I really hope that day will come when, one day, you will discuss and make decisions for the citizens. And I'm going to remind you, in this law, they have no use, no entrepreneurs, no workers, no family, no youth, no businessmen, no pensioners, no one. No one but you. 38 hours of people in Croatia today are looking at the continuity where you are feverishly trying to reach your 2.5 million because it is not enough. And after 20 years, it's not enough. And in all this, you have succeeded, through this same bill of law, by stifling the referendum initiatives, by giving greater financial resources to enter the political ring through natural and legal persons, so that ultimately, the policy will be worth the one who has a more difficult bank account. That's where you're headed. In all that, you eventually forgot people. My opinion is that you forgot them a long time ago. But it doesn't matter, so you'll have posters and TV videos. The only thing I expect Of all of us who are not part of the ruling majority [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] which we are opposition not to be here and to do you a quorum in this disgrace. [[Intruder Reiner: Probably not.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134455	The 884th amendment is the representative of Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134456	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, we have before us the Law on the financing of political activities, election campaigns and referendums, and what is important to point out is that we have handed over 888 amendments most of them refer to the fact that part of the text is actually deleted because we consider it to be an integral part of the referendum law. What's important to say is, and this article that I've given the amendment is talking about, that we think that autonomous law is, in fact, a local self-government unit has its own budgets and those regional self-government that they own and autonomously have their own budget, and they direct money where they think they need it most. We find it even a bit appropriate, even questionable constitutionally, that you, in fact, through this law, prescribe minimum fees, which you will receive for political action by the elected representative in local, regional, actually self-government units. For example, in the city of Zagreb you prescribe 8000 kn, in the county and these larger cities 5000 kn, in cities over 10000, 3500 kn, 2000 kuna for each unit of local self-government, where it is actually 3000-10000 inhabitants, and for those at least 1000 kuna, minimum 1000 kuna. You're dictating freedom with this, and you're dictating the ability of local self-government units to decide autonomously about their incomes at local and regional level. Please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134457	895th Amendment of Representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going to sum up my 35-hour debate too soon, and I'm going to focus on the referendum initiatives anyway. So I think this message about 4 million kunas is a bad message but suppressing referendum initiatives in the long run can cause much more damage to Croatia. It is about the repression of democracy, I believe that this legal proposal is a knife in the back of democracy and that possibly a new legal electoral object that gives the relative electoral winner a grace of mandate, that it will be the death of democracy, but MOST will fight hard against it and what you've told citizens today that they have no right to decide, that it makes it difficult for them to decide I don't think it's good. So citizens have the right to refer to important things that concern their lives, you took it away from them, so we have an announcement of a new referendum law that will make it even more difficult to collect signatures, we have a power that fears its own people, and if it continues, so I don't know where we're going to come from. IN THE event of such legislative proposals, MOST will respond just as strongly as it is now and we will fight right here where we belong to the people and to their democracy. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134459	The 896th Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What to say in these late hours except that it is clear that you need this money too much to keep that one of yours, that course of yours, which means trying to win, to get the highest number of mandates in the upcoming Europarliamentary elections. And you were so persistent that you didn't realize the moment, that you didn't think well that these 888 amendments were something to break your teeth on. Why? Because so far, the opposition has always submitted a lot of amendments and then eventually withdrawn them. And it was just that it was a wolf, it was a wolf and at the end of it was nothing. Now this time he was a wolf, this time he was a team of MOSTs who once again showed that he could complex, compactly, uncompromisingly defend the interests of the citizens who have chosen from the Croatian Parliament. And of course you will be with your hands and hands of defectors are particularly interesting defects brought by Mr Milanovic to the Parliament, with them you will vote this law, but the people saw it, the people recognized it and the consequences of your rape democracy and attempts to choke and referendum initiatives and attempts to get more money from the people will reward you but you will be surprised. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134461	The 887th Amendment of Agent Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134462	Dear Vice President, I see so much panic that here came the prime minister, so he could hold a press conference in the morning, he came here at 11:30 in the Croatian Parliament to hold a press conference to raise Croatia's credit rating. But what it means is that if we still don't have investment, if we don't have industry, if people are moving us, if our agriculture is destroyed, that's because of macroeconomic reasons, the situation in the external markets, which is because of the public debt situation and other things, but the government of Tihomir Oreskovic played the most. And now here he comes here to the Croatian Parliament because he is aware that people have understood what their intentions are. People realized that you wanted to and that you wanted to and that you would get to the extra 2.5 million kuna, that here a small but complex team, very well-coordinated, gave you a fierce resistance that you didn't hope for. You thought that maybe my colleague Bulj and I would be here in the Parliament, met by my colleague Bačić in the hallway, said I did not hope that colleague Strenja Linić, co-worker Čikotic and the others would be 30 and something, meaning that Dobrović would be 36h, 37h in the Croatian Parliament. So you're surprised and here at midnight you have to collect the quorum to vote this bill and the president's waiting means at a low start that as soon as you pass this bill to sign it and then to call the elections afterwards. He's not acting like the president of all citizens. He's acting like your party puppet. I'm looking for a vote. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134463	The 898th amendment is the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134464	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the legislator of this law, I am manifested under Amendment No. In 898, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134465	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 899. The GLAS and HSU representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134466	under the regular number of 899s, the amendment is not accepted for reasons because the same article accepts the amendment of the HS Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134467	On behalf of the MPs' club, the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134468	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, dear State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Democracy is being taught. We're a country that doesn't have a long tradition of democracy, but when we make a mistake, then we've made forever. There are some things that aren't written anywhere, but which are recommended, which is that a year before the elections, certain election rules don't change. Even if the election year did not change these electoral rules, it would not have come to the conclusion that we would have one law, that the day after that elections would be called and that the law would apply in terms of funding for these elections. The inadmissible, false, absolute message that Croatia has so persistently with this government led by Mr Plenkovic in its fine silk European gloves sends to Europe, that democracy is in the way that the HDZ is experiencing together with its partners, that it is changing according to individual needs, that it can be like this and no matter what this European decent person opens up on one side, reality is very different. That true reality can be seen through this law. You can also see through these many amendments that have been made, but if you really wanted to show this one decent European person, you could adopt our amendment and all these rules of the game could be used for the next European elections, not for these elections. An absolutely false message, wrongly made, and to that effect, of course, I demand a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134469	Amendment No. 900. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Until 911, clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134470	The amendments from the regular 900 to the regular 911 number are not accepted for reasons because the same article accepts the amendment of the HS Legislative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134471	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the esteemed representative Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134472	Thank you very much. I find this fascinating. That the Legislative Committee considers it illegal to enter into force on the 8th day rather than that it is lawful to enter into force on the 1st day. I mean, if that's what the Legislative Committee needs to deal with, then surely, they don't deal with what's necessary, which is looking for, maybe bad solutions that aren't in line with other laws, but to this, I think you've abused the HS Legislative Committee, that your mistake corrects in a way that they've given the amendment, that the government doesn't have to give. And now this prime minister who came here, he was supposed to be the one to come and give his amendment and say, I'm the one who's asking it to be from tomorrow right now, before the president announces that, call the election. And that would be solidarity. If he were to show clearly that he is carrying that responsibility, and that he is in solidarity with the Croatian people, then he would say, we will leave it for the future, now we are going to go to elections, as it has always been, and the money certainly has better opportunities in which to spend. Our proposal was to let go, so to do this cycle of elections, to have Europarliamentary elections, to have election presidents, to show solidarity with the situation on the ground, not these statistical indicators, macroeconomic indicators, when we see people moving away, when we don't create jobs, when we become a raw base in agriculture, when we slowly and tourism start to collapse, so these support that we get today, here's what's read from Ireland and what it tells you, it tells you that because of this kind of policy, people move away, and you just show us a nice state, that it's so good, we wouldn't run for these money that you're trying to take. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134473	Thank you. Your Honor... Nothing. The 901st Amendment of Representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134474	Here, so, 30 hours we're almost or even more, I don't count the hours anymore, but it's important to me that the Prime Minister came to the Parliament to give support to the parliamentary deputies who will support this law, which I have now seen here in the media that has been published. And I mean, support. What is significant for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this law except that the bag has been increased in HDZ so that it can spend more? Nothing else. So, there's a referendum coming up. The referendum's been stalled. Nothing is solved about people who should solve existential problems, national problems, our territory, such as an exclusive economic belt, and the prime minister coming to parliament, writing to the media, and giving support to people who will support this law. Here, but we did it, and we gave hope that we could be the only one in this way as a serious opposition, we fellow MPs, these two days we showed them both the president and Vice President Reiner sat down that we were tough, that we also showed that seriousness and transparency. I'm sorry that he wasn't here and graver of the referendum Lovro Kuščević, who left the lady all night and here, and now all the time, alone, which is not gentlemanly, is not according to the Istanbul Convention to which Lovre Kuščević is called and you are obviously at the mercy and mercy of his party, but he is not, not a gentleman Of course I'm asking for a vote, mostly because of you for... [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134475	The 902nd Amendment of Agent Robert Dolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134476	It is Mr. Vice President that the most controversial provision in this proposed law, which unfortunately came from the Committee on Legislative Law which I am a member and when I saw on the committee there, this amendment, was clear to me, which is a hell of a plan, in fact the ruling party, that through that amendment they want this law to come into force as soon as possible. It is a shame and a shame that the Legislative Committee, whose fundamental function is to monitor whether the proposed laws are in conformity with the Constitution, makes such an amendment which is absolutely contrary to the Constitution, because the Constitution requires that the laws enter into force at the earliest 8 days, after publication in the National Journal, and only under specific justified reasons and within a shorter period. And what are the particular reasons? The Committee on Legislatives has stated that the legal provision is being amended. They didn't even want to write what the real reason was. This issue of entry into force is absolutely contrary to the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the Constitutional Court and the good parliamentary bangs, not to change electoral legislation in the election year. And then the government's representatives say it's not electoral legislation. So I don't know what the word election promotion means or I don't understand Croatian. Election promotion is not part of electoral legislation. I mean, unfortunately, this will certainly be before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. And they themselves should abolish this law, only in view of this provision. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. [[Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134477	Col. Runtić, 903 amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134478	Thank you, Mr. President. Does this work a miracle? It's working. So before this now PR show, which follows in which to boast about what is smart, I'm going to conclude a short, something I saw on one portal last night, says this, the Ministry of Scissored the Split Center for Autism and left them with no money for food and transportation. So, there's no such thing as this, but there's one for party registers and political promotion. And what's crucial is, every year, there's 20 billion dollars for interest-bankers. That's what he's And for the first time, I'm not exclusively asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134479	We're going to Amendment 904 of the esteemed colleague Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134480	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, on this amendment, I will only say that, that perhaps this particular reason, which is not stated, could be a negligence of the minister, i.e. his services. I think that's enough to say, but I want a vote on this stream.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134481	Then let's go to Amendment 905. Agent Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134482	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll agree with my colleague Dobrovic, so here we are, arguing for 38 hours, at the end of the election, we're being malted, and there's no honorary minister. So all the time there were state secretaries, all the maltenes, as we see it ringing in the halls of parliament, gathering, as the diameter comes to support the MPs who will vote. Well, we wouldn't really, if we were to vote, like, I don't think this is the tension in Brexit that we're voting in England to that extent, they've passed this law today, so it's a crucial law, it's a law on the remainder of HDZ survival, a future survival. But you don't need to worry about financing the election promotion. If this policy continues in Croatia, remember, in 50 years, you will have 100% power because only people with HDZ membership cards will remain. All I did was escort 100 people out of my little town in two months. The next one's gone. This is Croatia's rural space policy. And we're talking about ratings, some agencies and everything. So look at the place outside of Zagreb. It is not possible that Croatian politics have shrunk on only 2 hills in Zagreb, Pantovčak and Mark's square are still not visible. And these parliamentary deputies who come from the neighborhood, who... Obviously they forget about these parts, when they see the light of Zagreb and it is Croatian politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And instead of us here for 40 hours discussing how to leave young people, to discuss the crucial laws, what? Now we see, there comes suddenly 76 MPs to vote a law that will allow the spending of 5-6 million kunas, more to embellish reality, what reality, who are we cheating on?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134483	The 906th Amendment of Representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, is gone, so let's go to 907.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134484	The Honorable Chairman of the 38 hours of twirling, for 2.5 million kuna. Well, isn't that a shame, 38 hours, muttering MPs, staff, to raise yourself 2.5 million kuna. I don't know if it's any more embarrassing or being an example. Said the sick kids with the spinrass had no money. There's no money for them, but for you, for your pretty faces on posters, and in TV videos you need money. Interesting. It's those standards, that's your intimate relationship with the people on the ground. You know best how people breathe, you know very well. You can look at the parents of a sick child in the eyes and say there's no money and then afterwards, you can come to Parliament for 38 hours to crawl for 2.5 million kuna, so you don't be ashamed. Bravo. That's that HDZ, even I wouldn't say it was HDZ, I'd say it was the tip that stole everything from you. I'm not talking about finances. You took that a long time ago. I'm talking about honor, I'm talking about face value, you've lost everything along the way. The important thing is that people had 38 hours to see it. And they saw it. No crying, no TV videos, no smiling faces will help you anymore, believe me. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134485	The 908th Amendment, representative Sonja Cikotic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134486	What is not done now in this year when the election year does not change the rules. That, this law will surely have its way to the Constitutional Court and actually an assessment of constitutionality. The institutions are occupied, parliamentary democracy has been stolen, you have stolen direct democracy, and money, money that you are, in fact, the whole public could see what you've been up against. You have burned 2.5 million kuna to vote today to actually change the electoral rules for the European elections to be announced Monday, and the president is waiting, so the institutions are occupied. If the institutions are occupied, who's funding them, then you're funding them. You've increased pay allocations in the public sector, you've occupied the school boards, you've occupied the board of directors, you've occupied all state-owned companies, you've occupied the board of directors, you've occupied everything else. But you know what? This is a good thing that happened today because Croatian citizens could clearly see who you cared about. Because for years they've been waiting for certain laws, for years they've been waiting for certain changes, and they don't come. And when it takes 2.5 million kunas to secure political promotion, then you can do it. You are not at least ashamed to provide in the Ministry of Regional Development 2.5 million kuna for catering services and put it in 10 bagatile purchases and actually carry out and sell an empty story across half-empty cities and villages in Croatia, it is not the least shame, but Croatia has seen who you are. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134487	We're going to the 909th Amendment, Agent Mark Sladolev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134488	Thank you, Mr. President. So here, after 36 hours, I can say that I am proud of my colleagues, not for those 36 hours, but for the message we sent to Croatian clarity, and I can also say that I am proud of the Croatian people, which we have received, of these people who came before the Parliament. Hundreds and hundreds of messages from all over Croatia, from the diaspora, some messages were not hate messages for a party, so our voters are not such, they are affirmative, they said, just insist, hold on, you are light. So, as the HDZ panic suggests, the Prime Minister has come to hold a press conference, that this law is passed in a very, very strange way. It seems that media polling is not what the real state shows, that millions and millions of kuna must be spent to make reality better. So we simply send citizens a bad message, we will insist on our messages, we believe that Croatian citizens are more valuable than political parties, that political parties and political elites are co-responsible and responsible for thousands and thousands of young people who have moved out of Croatia. We will fight beside such a policy opinion. We think that people are ahead of politics, that children are ahead of politics, that social cases are ahead of politics and I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134489	Okay. We're going to the last, 910th Amendment, Agent Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134490	Your Honor. As we can see, only HDZ members return to Croatia when necessary. All your voters and all the citizens who live in the places where you come from will see that, that the place where you came back tonight is HS at midnight on Friday to vote, to take more money from those citizens' pockets. I, too, have been calling on President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic all day to sign the elections for the EU parliament and to push ahead with this bill that will allow you to spend even more money on the elections, but that was wrong. Because by this law, she'll be able to spend $8 million on her campaign instead of $4 million. By this law that you will vote today with the help of the defectors provided by Milanović + national minorities, you will make it impossible for Croatian citizens to have the right guaranteed by the Constitution and that is the right to referenda [[Intruder: Please.]] The right to a referendum is the greatest democratic right guaranteed by the Constitution. [[/Intruder: Fellows and colleagues, please for parliamentaryism. Here you go.]] You'll make it impossible for them. Because a referendum requires a real referendum law, not what you stated in this law. The referendum that will follow you will soon cloud many things because it will declare many of your voters who will not work until 67 years, when they live 3 years shorter than EU citizens. With this law, you've torn down everything that makes you think you should get votes. You dragged the citizens into their pockets even deeper and made what they needed impossible. And that's the right to be a referendum. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Reliable to what they seek. [[Intruder: Thank you colleagues of Srenja.]] I ask you to vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134491	And the last amendment to the respected representative of Nikola Grumoya 911. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134492	37 hours of this battle of MOST MPs, and now the voting machine has entered the Croatian Parliament to vote additional millions for election promotion, that is all you care about, you haven't been here for 2 days, there you sent your vice-presidents to guard the party's register, and now you've come to vote this and further disable the referendum's citizens' statement. As far as I could see, the Prime Minister came to you to express solidarity because here it is difficult for you to come here at 12 o'clock, to vote not for the Croatian people, not for the Croatian state, but for your party, your party was always above the Croatian state and you weren't enough of black funds, not enough of all those big affairs, never enough money for you. For two days, you pushed this debate only to now vote this law at this deaf time of night, allowing HDZ, Milan Bandic and HNS additional millions for election promotion. This is the only thing you are interested in, that's why you came to the Croatian Parliament, and MOST's MPs have won this fight because the vote was supposed to be at 12:00 this didn't happen, we've had to trouble you now, your colleague Bacic is now struggling to rally you here, and MOST's representatives have shown that he's fighting for values, how he's fighting for Croatian citizens, and we've offered hope for Croatian citizens that he can resist what we've done. I'm asking for a vote, and most likely in the vote, we won't participate, and I ask all those sitting here not to hold your quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134493	You lost your right to speak, you didn't, and what would you like?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134494	I would like to address, so in 238, thank you to my colleagues from MOST for having endured, I as a volunteer in a number of referendum initiatives appreciate your efforts and thank you for having endured these 38 hours, especially to appreciate, I will repeat Istanbul, the truth about Istanbul, 1,000 volunteers thank you for what you've done. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134495	You know that's a reminder of what you've done, so here I am giving you a warning and you have no right to speak anymore. That's the way it is anyway. The vote will be at 12:00, as announced. We're going to vote now. First item Final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, second reading, P.Z. No. 519, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt a conclusion that reads, on the final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums, a third reading will take place. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to show his respect for Secretary of State, Josipa Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134497	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134498	I'm only asking for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134499	You got it. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134500	Then I am voting on a proposal for a conclusion of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Please, let's vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed, 80 votes against him. Now we're going to vote on the amendments. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the representative of Saša Djujic, the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU, the Club of Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Representative of Miro Bulj, the representative of Poddoljak, Runtic, Dobrić, Ante Pranic, Ivana Nenčević-Lesandrić, Božo Petrov, Sonja Cikotić, Marko Sladoljev, Ines Strenja, Nikola Grmoja and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Liberal Democratic Party. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We had a statement on the amendments earlier in the session. Before we move to the vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept, I would like to stress that, since the club of the representatives of the Independent Lists and the eleven representatives of the Most Independent Lists submitted amendments to the identical content, in accordance with Article 202, paragraph 7. The Rules of Procedure on Amendments will be voted in a way that we will only vote on one of them, and that on the Club's amendments. So we're going with the vote. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, therefore, from 1 to 12, representatives as mentioned, please, Amendment 1 to 12, let us vote, the Government does not accept them. The amendments from 1 to 12 did not get a sufficient number of votes. Amendment 13, Independent List Representatives' Club, Amendment No 13., Club of Independent Lists Representatives and Amendments to number 24, identical, the government does not accept them. [[Sorry, sorry.]] Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, from 25th to 36th, identical amendments, is not accepted by the government. Please, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, Amendment 37 to 48, identical amendments, is not accepted by the Government. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 49, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, and identical amendments to the number 60, the government does not accept them. Please, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment number 61, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, and identical amendments up to 72, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment No 73, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, and identical amendments to 84, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment number 85, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, and identical amendments up to 96, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment number 97, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, and identical amendments up to 108, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 109, Club of the Most Independent Lists, up to 120, identical amendments, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 121, Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 122, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, and identical amendments until 133, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 134, the same club of MPs, and identical amendments by 145, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 146, the same club of MPs, and identical amendments up to 157, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 158, Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system has been adopted, becoming an integral part of the Law. Amendments to 159 of the Most Independent List Representatives Club and identical until 170, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment of Representative Sasa Djujic No. In 171, the government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 172. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists until 183th identical amendments, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 184. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists until 195 are identical amendments, the government does not accept them, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 196 of the same club of representatives to 207 are identical amendments that the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 208 of the same club of representatives until 219 identical amendments, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. The amendment of 220 of the same club of representatives until 231 is identical amendments, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 232. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists until 243 are identical amendments, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed, so we're going to the 244th same club of MPs until 255th are identical amendments, the government doesn't accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 256th amendment of the same club of MPs to the 267th identical amendments, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 268th amendment is that of the Legislative Committee, it has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 269. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists until 280th identical amendments, the government does not accept them, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 281. The club of MOST representatives of independent lists up to 292. identical amendments, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 293. The club of MOST representatives of independent lists up to 304th identical amendments, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 305 of the same club of representatives to the 316th identical amendment, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 317. The HNS representative club was accepted in part. The HNS club wasn't obvious, so we have to vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134501	Thank you, Mr. President. We accept the amendment in changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134502	Thank you, then he becomes an integral part of the law. The 318th Amendment of the Living Wall and Power Club, the government does not accept, so please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 319. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists until 330 is identical to the amendments, the government does not accept them. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 331. The same club of representatives to 342. are the same amendments, please vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 343 of the same club of representatives up to 354th same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 355. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists until 366th of the same amendment, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 367. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists until 378th identical amendments, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. In 379, the same club representing up to 390 identical amendments, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 391. The club of independent representatives, the government doesn't accept, we have to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 392nd amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists until 403 is identical amendments, the government does not accept them. The 404th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists until 415th identical amendments, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. In 416, the same club of representatives up to 427 identical amendments, the government doesn't accept them, let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. 428th Amendment of the same club of representatives identical to 439th, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 440. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists until 451nd identical, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 452. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" representatives' club, the government doesn't accept, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 453rd representative Sasa Djujic, the government does not accept, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 454. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists until 465th of the same amendment, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 466 The club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists up to 477 identical amendments, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. 478, the same Club of Representatives until 489, the government doesn't accept them. Let's vote. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 490, the same Club of Representatives up to 501, identical amendments, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 502 of the same Club of Representatives until 513, identical amendments, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 514th Amendment of the same Club of Representatives to 525, identical amendments, the Government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 526, the same Club of Representatives up to 537, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 538th of the same Club of Representatives until 549, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 550 of the same Club of Representatives to 561, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 562 The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists up to 573, identical amendments, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 574, the same club of MPs up to 585, the same amendment, the government doesn't accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 586, the same Club of Representatives until 597, the same amendments, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 598, the same club of MPs up to 609, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 610 The club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists up to 621, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 622, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists until 633, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 634, the same club of representatives until 645, the same amendments, the government doesn't accept them. 646, the same club of MPs up to 657, the same amendment, the government doesn't accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. 658, same club of MPs up to 669, same amendment, the government doesn't accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. 670, the same club of MPs up to 681, the same amendment, the government doesn't accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. 682, the same club of representatives up to 693, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 694, the same club of MPs up to 705, the same amendment, the government doesn't accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. 706, the same club of MPs up to 717, the same amendment, the government doesn't accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 718, the same club of MPs up to 729, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 730, the same club of MPs up to 741, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 742, the same club of MPs, 753, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 754, the same club of MPs up to 765, the same amendment, the government doesn't accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. 766, the same club of MPs up to 777, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 778, the same club of MPs up to 789, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 790, the same club of MPs up to 801, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 802 to 813, the club of representatives of MOST, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 814, the same Club of Representatives until 825, the same amendments, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. 826, the same Club of Representatives until 837, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 838 amendments, the same club of representatives up to 849, the same amendments, the government does not accept them. They didn't get the votes they needed. 850 amendments, the same club of MPs up to 861, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 862, the same club of representatives up to 873, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 874, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists until 885, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. 886, the same club of representatives up to 897, the same amendment, the government does not accept. They didn't get the votes they needed. The 898th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives was adopted by the Government and became an integral part of the law. And 899. The GLAS and HSU representatives club is not accepted by the government, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And we're going to the last 900th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists until 911. They didn't get the votes they needed. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. Please, let's vote. I find that unanimously with 81 votes for the adopted Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134503	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on drug abuse, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 495 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 4 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia This Regulation shall enter into force on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by virtue of Art. 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I call on the representative of the motionor, the respected State Secretary, the Ministry of Health, Tomislav Dulibic, to give us an additional explanation of the final bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134504	Mr. President. Legal amendments harmonize national legislation with the EU acquis in such a way that new psychoactive substances are defined as drugs. This will reduce the availability of new psychoactive substances on the Croatian market and allow competent inspections to be carried out in cases where they suspect that the composition of a product does not correspond to the composition of the product notice, i.e. that the product contains psychoactive substances or new psychoactive substances. In order to prevent their use and further sell, the legislative proposal allows for the Minister of Health, the adoption of orders prohibiting the use of a new psychoactive substance, until the moment it is included in the list of drugs, psychoactive substances and substances from which drugs can be obtained. By defining industrial hemp, as hemp with low THC content, it is clearly indicated that it is not a drug-derived plant and that it is not on the drug list. The legal proposal enables the use of whole plants of industrial hemp for various industrial purposes, construction, textile, cosmetic industry, as well as the car industry and the paper industry, as well as the production of biofuels, as opposed to the current conditions, where seeds of those varieties are used exclusively in the food industry for the production of food and feed for animals, and the rest of the plant is destroyed. The difference between the solutions proposed by the final draft law, in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law, concerns the demarcation of the jurisdiction to carry out inspection controls, over the implementation of the law. A transitional provision has also been added, under which drugs, parts of plants or substances, taken before the entry into force of this law, will be destroyed in accordance with the provisions of this law, i.e. within a significantly shorter period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134505	I thank Secretary of State Dulibic for the explanation of the final bill, we have replicas. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134506	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I am pleased to say once again, as in real reading, I am pleased to legalise the production of industrial hemp, but what I regret is that until this second reading, you have not decided, although there have been many proposals in this debate, to legalise the production of hemp, or marijuana for medical purposes. I thought that you would also do so after all the events that occurred between these two readings, which is to say that the President of the Republic pardoned one citizen of our country, Juanita, precisely because of that part, which he was convicted of, because of the production of marijuana for medical purposes, since the case was processed by the Ministry of Justice, which is an integral part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so they had nothing against that pardon, and so I conclude that the government has nothing against it either. I thought, really, that by the parts of the President and the Ministry of Justice you would still accept and legalize, allow this law and the production of marijuana for medical purposes. I'm sorry that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134507	I'd like to thank my colleague, Giujic. Secretary of State Dulibic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134508	Your Honor, we have not passed these provisions on the cultivation of medical cannabis exclusively for security reasons, but if we had brought them in, it would have been grown in closed laboratory conditions, not in such conditions as you are now referring to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134509	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134510	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, right now patients who need medical cannabis are not really available, the price is too high, the number of doctors who have the right to prescribe this prescription is very small, two preparations available in the pharmacy do not meet the needs of patients. At the same time for two years, your ministry ignored the work of the Medical Cannabis Committee which in 2015 made recommendations on the use of medical cannabis with the conclusion that every 6 months, recommendations are revised to... For two years, however, Minister Kujundzic refused to call the commission, can you tell why and has the commission finally started working and when will we get their new recommendations? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134511	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Secretary of State Dulibic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134512	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jovanovic, as far as I know, the commission is working in its composition and will make appropriate recommendations, and as far as the procurement of substances in pharmacyes is concerned, so we ordered additional quantities, arrive within a month, and will be twice as cheap as they have been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134513	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134514	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, here's the question asked today by my colleague Jovanovic, I first asked in my first reading, then you told me there was no need, that so far there was no need to call a meeting of the commission. But what you did somehow in silence, that you were very soon after that read on January 17th we had, already by the end of February or by the beginning of February it seemed to me that you had already voted a new president, I congratulate my colleague Cellić, he, if you didn't know, the president and the head of that commission and I now expect really some shifts and I think you should still raise it to a slightly larger bell because it is really significant that over the past years he, and you yourself said that too few patients can use medical cannabis or for little diagnosis doctors. I can prescribe recipes. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134515	...to a respected colleague. Secretary of State Dulibic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134516	Well, I can't see, I don't see any esteemed colleagues having anything to do with Dr. Cellic, therefore, as president of this committee, he is an important expert in this area and I hope we will see the results of this work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134517	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134518	Thank you. A lot of questions have been raised, and I'm going to be a little longer in the debate. I would just remind you, first of all, that it is commendable to be at the head of this commission of colleagues, who is an expert in this area, and I hope that according to what his views are, and they are modern attitudes and come from what is today reaching the modern world, probably in that sense, and go. But she would also visit you for your Europarliamentary, which was very clear in the European Parliament, was a member of the group that spoke about the use of cannabis for medical purposes and made it very clear and asked for it to be legally regulated. What opened up here as a question is that you think that our Ministry of the Interior, since you tell them primarily that they are responsible and why they didn't go into medical cannabis production, do you think they're not capacitated to lead this, and some other interior and police departments in Canada and a whole series of other countries can control and are allowed in these countries to produce medical cannabis?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134519	Thank you. Secretary of State Dulibic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134520	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarians, as far as I think our Ministry of the Interior is extremely good at doing its job, the security assessment is currently such that it is not a recommendation for the adoption of these amendments to the law in the sense that medical cannabis is being grown. Once the security assessment is different, we will approach a different legislative solution at government level.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134521	Thank you for your response. Next replica, Stjepan Curaj, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134522	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I see, therefore, that in remarks or proposals you did not accept my proposal on a single added system, although we are now introducing, we define an early warning system and you stated that there is a certain application on the Ministry of the Interior portal that I can't find at all from how many times, so I'm curious to know exactly how I get to that application? And the system of uniqueness was a proposal to include that level of application and all other possible and, of course, one list of images of all already established substances that have psychoactive properties, therefore, which are banned, so that our citizens would know when they first come in contact that it is illegal. Of course, we must introduce it into the law so that we do not come into conflict with certain other regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134523	I thank my colleague Curai. Secretary of State Dulibic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134524	Thank you very much. Mr. Curaj, it's a mobile app, and here I have it on my cell phone, so there's an app that's called the police and then it's there to take pictures and make an application, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134525	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, there has been little talk about something that came out in the media today, and therefore, research activities, so I think that this law regulates and owns drugs, or entire plants for the processing of plants for medical, veterinary, scientific research and teaching purposes, so I think it's another important thing of this very complex law and given this situation that happened at the Faculty of Agriculture, I ask you to take up your time to regulate yourself with the Ministry of Science and Education as soon as possible, that at the Faculty of Agriculture, when there is already this possibility that for scientific research purposes, the permit and by the Ministry of Health is available.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134527	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic. State Secretary Dulibic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134528	Thank you very much, Mr. Cellic, so I've been here all day in the assembly, so I haven't gotten into the details of that case, but as much information as I have, the Ministry of Science needs to bring the rule that we, based on which we can give the Ministry of Health consent. Of course I'll be busy bringing the same one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134529	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Dear colleague Ines Strenja, president of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134530	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I particularly welcome the representative of the ministry and these MPs who are here this late afternoon with us. I would like to tell you what the opinion of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, which today discussed at its 67th session on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on drug abuse, in the second reading, P.Z.E. Number 495. Therefore, the law discussed it as a home working body and, in the opening part of the proposal, pointed out that the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law concern the demarcation of competence in carrying out inspection controls on the implementation of the law. A transitional provision has also been added under which drugs, parts of plants or substances taken before the entry into force of this law will be destroyed in accordance with the provisions of this law or within a significantly shorter period. The proposals were not accepted during the parliamentary debate on the draft legislation relating to the legalisation of hemp for recreational purposes and the proposal to regulate hemp farming for medical purposes, which, in the opinion of some, would allow the production of cannabis-based products for medical purposes, which would make patients more financially favourable and accessible. During the debate, the need for distinction between the legalisation of hemp for recreational purposes and the cultivation of hemp for medical purposes was stressed. The opinion of the board members has also been expressed, most of those medical professions, that it is unquestionable that cannabis does not treat certain diseases, such as those. multiple sclerosis rather than reduces and relieves problems and pains. For these very reasons, according to their opinion, it should go in that direction and make certain urgent changes. In this regard, they did not agree with the applicant's view that it was expensive to establish a special state agency, which would be responsible for raising, buying, controlling and placing on the market cannabis-based products, in accordance with UN drug conventions and psychotropic substances that the Republic of Croatia is signatories. Members of the board unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament this law, that in the procedure and for the rapporteur they proposed me and I therefore read to you the opinion of my committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134531	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, Ines Strenji, for taking the board's position. Anyone else from the board? No one, thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134532	So what I didn't get to say in the replica itself, so I'll tell you what our representative in the Europarlament who was very active on these topics and about the prevention of malignant diseases and breast cancer, but also in Brussels, she was clear at the Conference on the Use of Medical Cannabis, and fellow Shuica said that the work of European institutions and agencies to raise awareness of the importance of research and legal definition of medical cannabis is of exceptional importance and can only help patients who need such medicines, but we politicians and scientists, activists and patients and all others must be united in the fight to strengthen the health of our citizens, as well as improved access to medical care. So the improved approach is what we wanted with this law, but we didn't get it. Therefore, the basic purpose of this law was to bring national legislation into line with the legal acquis of the EU and to transpose the Directive in order to cover new psychoactive substances with the definition of drugs and, therefore, the legislative proposal defines the concept of new psychoactive substances to ensure the sanctioning and the basis for the handling of the possession of new psychoactive substances, which means new ones appear on the market from day to day. Legal changes defined industrial hemp, such as hemp on a common EU variety list with certain content and definition of industrial hemp, indicate that it is not a plant from which drug can be obtained, etc. So this change on the possibility of using entire industrial, industrial hemp plants and that's what we support. However, one of the louder demands of many citizens, primarily the patient was a license to grow medical cannabis, which is what you missed out on. And you've actually had this law for years in your preparatory legislative acts and you've had enough time to put it into this bill. In 2015, therefore, the Republic of Croatia granted legal application and availability of finished cannabis-based products to amend the Regulation on product classification criteria and prescription regulation. Furthermore, you say in your explanation of the medical profession in the Republic of Croatia of hemp-based preparations or oils very rarely prescribes that the reason for the non-prescription of these products is not exclusively financial, but the fact that the use of cannabis-based preparations is not considered an official treatment due to lack of scientific evidence. These preparations are only used as auxiliary agents to relieve patients’ problems with very different individual response to administration. This is completely incorrect and I don't know who wrote you these explanations. So we consider that if we prescribe it, we think it's an official way of preventing pain in patients who need it. Then you said again, as regards the cultivation of hemp with high content of tetrahydrocanabinol for medical purposes, we note that, in accordance with the UN Convention on Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, which is a signator of the Republic of Croatia, UN Member States that legalise hemp cultivation for medical purposes must establish a special state agency responsible for the cultivation, purchase, control and placing on the market of cannabis-based preparations. Following that country or regulatory authorities shall take responsibility for the effectiveness and safety of the use of that preparation or its release. So far, no pharmaceutical company has expressed its intention to produce these preparations. And this is incorrect, so we in Europe have countries where the agency wasn't founded and it's possible to regulate others, so regulations don't need to set up an agency. Also, of course, you have to open up the possibility that pharmaceutical companies actually begin to even think about producing medical cannabis. In the Republic of Croatia, you continue to say that the very low consumption of hemp-based preparations at the state level was recorded last year, making certain quantities of preparations needed to be destroyed due to the expiry date. So, this is an incorrect explanation, I don't know who wrote it to you, if EUR 1,000,00 is one dose for one month for one seriously ill patient, who except he's seriously ill, has all the other increased food costs, because of care and all that because it's really about patients who are mostly already very mobile or already in bed, so of course they're not able to isolate that much for cannabis oil, and of course it had to be destroyed because it's past the deadline because they couldn't buy, but they had to get along illegally, so this explanation doesn't hold water for you either. Respecting the fact that the medical profession in the Republic of Croatia is due to insufficient scientific evidence and now you are referring to... I'm... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also had some kind of invited lecture on the subject and I know what it is... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] on the effectiveness and safety of the application of these preparations, it is not regulated to a greater extent by the engagement of the State or national regulatory authorities and institutions with regard to the support and production and placing on the market of these preparations for the purpose of mass application, for which no additions to the legislative proposal have been made? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the medical profession thinks it's not... This is not true, we would not prescribe neurologists, oncologists, if it is not something that will help these patients, as we have always said not to treat etiologically, do not treat the cause of the disease itself, do not treat multiple sclerosis, do not treat cancers, but certainly reduces the problems resulting from these diseases. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, MOST therefore cannot support this bill because you failed to regulate something that is currently... which is economic and ethical and you should have made this legal solution possible for the cultivation of cannabis for medical purposes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the medical need for the use of marijuana lies in the use of clearly defined medical indications, which is primarily the relief of symptoms of nausea and vomiting, which may increase appetite, and the relief of pain in people with cancer, AIDS and multiple sclerosis. In these patients, they are practically on a weekly basis in pain clinics or in daily contact, and these patients have to increase the amount of medicines that reduce pain, so, from morphine to all those other medicines, with this, with the use of marijuana, you actually get these patients who have severe cancer pains, you reduce the need for these other drugs that they're practically really drugged because otherwise you can't reduce pain. It is also with patients of multiple sclerosis who because of those terrible cramps that result from muscle contractures that have led to, which make it impossible to practically walk, we reduce this cannabis and these problems and relax these patients who can then have a little more quality life. So what you missed, you failed to expand the indications that it was legal to use cannabis. We are now using only some forms, severe forms of child epilepsy, chemotherapy as adjuvant and pain in malignant diseases, tissue complications and multiple sclerosis. We must, you should have expanded the indications and expanded the actual circle of those doctors who can prescribe it, and it should primarily reach the level of each doctor because each doctor will according to their knowledge, ethics and actually need to prescribe this patient as well as any other medicine. And it is finally necessary to better inform the public that cannabis does not cure, it does not treat and can not lead to disease healing according to today's scientific data and evidence, but it can certainly enable these people to have a quality life that, if it is malignancies, is, in fact, the remaining one, which is, therefore, the relief of anxiety, is primarily the pain. In the Republic of Croatia we must encourage scientific research in this field, and see how the preparation of medical cannabis makes it more accessible and cheaper, and also what I said last time, to enable, open up the possibility of free regulation for those most difficult. So MOST will not support this bill because you failed to create a regulatory framework that would allow certified companies to grow hemp for medical purposes according to strictly defined rules, therefore, not individuals, but legal entities. So with these expensive preparations you've made patients purchase illegally on the market of products that sometimes, as we could last hear and in the debate, representatives, means, until then, of this office that you've bought, the government's office to control drug abuse that you've abolished and moved to where you moved, that some patients have been expensively paying for products in which there were zero THCs, so they bought nothing, they've paid dearly and received, but they themselves have no way to measure it, but some who have been seized are, so toxicologically they've been verified and they've found that they didn't have any of the ingredients, none of THC's in their composition. So, the way we've been set up so far, it's made cannabis oil unreachable to those who need it now we've led to that because it's too expensive and it's been withdrawn from the market, you say it'll be, in a month, so it'll be minimum 6 to 8 months that it's been made possible for patients, and it should be if it's even allowed to buy in Croatia legally, and that's why we've opened up the possibility of an illegal market, so I'm calling you here with unverified ingredients and concentrations, and that's the worst possible scenario for patients. I know this is completely uninteresting, this is Minister Kujundzic not interested, but these patients and their families and how interested they are. What is contentious to me is that you are calling as in 2011, now again 2018 and 2019 that the MUP is such as to block, I believe that our MUP and how it has been capacitated and has shown that we have good, good results against drugs in Croatia, that is good, but I do not believe that they are the main stumbling block to go in the direction in which this should be, to become something that is needed, and that is also an economic branch to enable growing for medical purposes and to make our patients in Croatia more accessible, and that we can also be a country from which it will be able and exported. For example. in Macedonia is allowed, if you didn't know and look at the surrounding countries, so you will see that this is actually something that is common, and I don't think the MUP in Croatia should be the main problem as you put it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134533	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ines Strenja. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134534	I thank Mr Vice-President, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, the existing law of 2001 had 8 legal amendments, but here the importance of implementing Directive 2017/2103 of the European Parliament amending the 2004 Council framework decision to cover new psychoactive substances with the definition of drugs should be highlighted. So it has already been mentioned before, this defines the concept of new psychoactive substances, which is very good, because what was covered by the unique 1961 and so on convention. The 1971 UN Convention is now gaining a new dimension. However, I would point out here again that it is a law on the prevention of drug abuse, of course, that it is legitimate to speak also about the broader context of the drug problem or psychoactive substances, but this law regulates above all the conditions for the cultivation of drugs, the control of the cultivation of drugs from which drugs can be obtained, measures to combat drug abuse and the system of drug addiction and help addicts and occasional drug users. The industrial hemp is defined, allowing the use of the entire plant of industrial hemp in different industries, what Strenja colleague said, so the European Parliament resolution from the second half of January calls for better definition, legal definition of the concept of medical hemp, so in our law now mentions the concept of industrial hemp in the definitions, and the idea of medical hemp is not yet available, which once again corresponds to these explanations by the secretary of state and the actual inability to use or the ability to grow medical hemp. The situation in European countries is at the same time influenced and affected by global trends in drugs, so each country has some similarities, but there are differences, each EU country defines this area of drug abuse in its own way. When we talk about the policy of curbing criminal behaviour here, we can talk about three concepts, decriminalisation which is in force in Croatia, depenalisation and de jurisprudence, but this now requires some other scientific context. As far as illegal psychoactive substances are concerned, cannabis remains Europe's most widely consumed illegal drugs, according to the European Drug Report. Marijuana is also noted by the amount seized for violations of the law due to its use and new requirements for treatment. The fact is that the number of drug addicts requiring treatment is increasing and increasing each year, and that also poses certain challenges for the health system issue, the issue of treatment of addiction to illegal psychoactive substances. In major EU countries, national drug abuse strategies today include not only illegal drugs, but also different combinations of related issues and addictive behaviour, and there and in this law are particularly regulated illicit substances used in sport. So, antidoping controls. These tools are designed to develop a comprehensive approach and specific answers to various health and social and safety dimensions of the drug problem. I do not believe that any law, I do not know that any law is so complex that it requires the opinion of 13 ministries, of course the Ministry of Health has the greatest responsibility, but during the preparation of the Law on drug abuse I have communicated with representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy, we have seen the importance of the Ministry of Finance, that I do not continue to list, so this is a very complex substance and what should also be highlighted is a matter that is often changing and I believe that by the end of this term there will be at least one more amendment and addition of the law. Prevention of drug abuse and drug-related problems among young people is a key objective of the European national drug prevention strategy and covers a wide range of approaches. Accesss related to environment and universal approaches aimed at the entire population, selective prevention, is focused on vulnerable groups that are at greater risk than developing drug-related problems, and the indicated prevention is focused on risk individuals. When we talk about vulnerable groups in the European report on drugs, it specifically refers to the prison population and in the context of new psychoactive substances, the use of synthetic cannabinoids, in the prison population as an epidemiological parameter that requires a comprehensive approach. The application of the quality standard is another way to ensure the proper implementation of interventions and recommendations for practice listed in the guidelines, although implementation is based on the standard of angles. At local level, there are also international standards that serve to reach consensus on the general principles for the implementation of interventions. For example, European minimum standards and quality to reduce the demand for drugs, adopted by the EU Council, determines the general principles, which are achieved at national level in different ways. Prevention is therefore the key to all national strategies and at this point, which is particularly insisted by the World Health Organization, as well as by the UN Office for Drugs and Crime is an emphasis on family strength, so stronger family is one motto and it is one focus of all preventive programmes organised by these roof institutions. Taking into account the fact that legal changes improve systematic surveillance of new psychoactive substances, this is now under this law, the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which is directly involved in the early warning system of the EU Agency for Drugs, to give a better framework in the development of national strategies to combat addiction, to regulate the destruction of drugs, taken away not only in criminal but also infractions, Kai and better define the concept of industrial hemp, and hence its usability, the HDZ Representatives Club will support that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134535	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Celic, on behalf of the Living Walls Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134536	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendments to the drug laws will not solve the problem of criminal and criminal persecution of people who consume hemp, i.e. marijuana for medical reasons. The basic reason why they won't, is because medical marijuana, which can be legally bought in drugstores too expensive and so, because it's too expensive, nobody gets it there, so there's no demand, so it had to be thrown out eventually, because it's timed out, so it's not getting it. You understand what the paradox is? So the state made it possible for sick people to be treated with hemp, and in fact it didn't allow them because the price of this hemp is in the pharmacy, as it is said in the people who St. Peter's Cagan. So what do people do now, what choice do they have, huh? They may or may not be treated with hemp, and it is evident that hemp helps them or can be obtained illegally or produced. And this particular case happened with Juanita Luksetic, who is fortunately, eventually pardoned. However, there are countless such ones as Juanita, who need this medicine urgently and cannot be obtained legally. Unfortunately, the legislator doesn't care, why? Well, she says a folk saying, "sufficient doesn't believe the hungry, healthy doesn't trust the sick, and rich doesn't trust the poor." I think that in this case we have the markings of these sayings, and as long as the legislator, that is, the ruling majority, that is, will not be in the problem that it will not simply be as normal as you would say, normal life, as long as members of the ruling majority will be relatively healthy, until they are in with multiple sclerosis and nailed to a wheelchair, and their hemp will be the only cure. Until that moment, they will say that the law should not be changed, that the law is good. But to find any of you, don't God, I don't want an accident for anyone to get sick of multiple sclerosis that regular therapy doesn't help him without talking about how common therapy has side effects. Well, you know, let's just say those corticosteroids they're giving, systematically, they're destroying that body. The ward is starving, etc. Now imagine, you give these people steroids, which, for example, they don't help or even help them, but they do cause a lot of side effects. On the other hand, they may be able to take hemp, which would also help them and not cause a bunch of these side effects, and unfortunately the legislator does not see. She's got a picture of a monkey who can't see, can't hear, doesn't speak. This is the ruling majority, i.e. the ruling majority against those who need Indian hemp. And for that very reason, the Living Wall has made a bill to legalize Indian hemp and you have rejected our proposal and now you will say, perhaps Mr. Celic that in psychiatry many of them are being treated, because of the blatant dependence on marijuana or any side effects, etc., the consumption of marijuana. But, okay, let's start assuming, Mr. Cellic, that you're right. Well, then let the medical hemp. Okay. So I'm not asking you now that you generally have to be recreational. I can understand your position that you are against it, although our position is different, but I repeat, I understand your position, respect and accept. But then allow for the medical purpose that people can grow or plant hemp or give them cheap hemp in pharmacies, I have nothing against that solution. Give the hemp to be on the recipe like any other, not that they have to pay it expensive and peppery. But unfortunately, I'm afraid that you just don't hear the cries of these people and that you don't care about it, and that's why we end up going to elections, and that's why we're participants in a political arena where we're fighting de facto against each other, we're here in the Parliament, and in the end, your political enemy isn't just us, but also all the people you've ruined by your laws and who can't get legally to the cure, who you're harassing and persecuting or not allowing treatment. And I call upon this occasion all those who are sick of various diseases, whose hemp helps, to remember when elections are held in mind who has advocated making their medicine available to them and who in this House has been against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134537	I thank my colleague Pernar. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, dear colleague Maria Puh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134538	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Here today we are discussing the Law on drug abuse and on the first reading of the law itself, and I must commend the changes that are going to be better and that are going on over time, which is that finally farmers will be able to use the entire stem of industrial hemp, which, unfortunately, they have not been able to do so. In fact, they have so far been able to take advantage of all about 10% of the plants produced and thus have not been in an equal position with other farmers who have registered and who have dealt with the same production in the EU, so this is definitely a good step forward. Just mentioning medical hemp here, I don't want the same thing to happen to us that happened to us with industrial hemp, which is that we're a few years behind in the EU. So, a few years ago, we allowed the use of a part of the stem itself, and today, here, we realized that it could actually be exploited by the whole stem, that it could be used for an innumerable amount of various products, and we unfortunately respected these products that were made of industrial hemp and we built them both in the building and in everything else, and unfortunately our stems had to be destroyed and we had to use them and therefore we had to have an additional profit. As far as the medical hemp is concerned, the Labour and Solidarity Party Club has submitted an amendment. An amendment that actually wants to be in step with what's going on and wants to be at the first actually helping our citizens. So we allowed in Croatia that medical hemp can be used. That it can be used to relieve pain, that it can be used in severely ill patients, we know that it does not actually cure, but significantly improves the quality of life of people who are quite ill. We want this law, as we have now put industrial hemp in an equal position, as other farmers have in the EU, that we also have the possibility that our citizens have available medical hemp that will be grown in Croatia. Right now they don't use that hemp as much as they'd like, because it's from imports and it's very expensive. Few of the severely ill people can actually afford 1,000 and more kuna for, let's say the week of therapy they need and the arguments that we've heard that we haven't actually used these hemps, that they had to be destroyed preparations, yes, they had to be destroyed because they were too expensive and that people simply couldn't afford a better quality life without pain and without consequences, which their disease produced. So we're in our amendment, there's been a speech so patients can grow their own medical hemp on the balcony. I definitely don't think it's a good way to do it, and in fact there would be an M.O.P. and all the other supervisory authorities actually be in trouble because the way we imagined it would be good, the production of medical hemp, which is now that we put in this law an article that allows us to produce medical hemp for the manufacture of medicine, legal persons who are authorised by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices for the production of finished drugs and substances that are considered narcotics or psychotropic substances under the Drug Act. So, the legal people who already exist, who have the Agency's license, have in their production facilities, in their warehouses an countless large amount and other medicines that, believe it, can also cause a variety of side effects, and therefore, if they already have control over it, we believe absolutely no big difference can occur between them now being able to produce and make medical hemp preparations so that it can be as cheap as possible on our market and make life easier for our sick citizens. And also what's important to know, about 48 countries according to the last data I found, the world has legalized medical hemp and I believe that this trend will continue to grow. Let's be proactive and by this law we actually open the door so that medical hemp can be produced in the Republic of Croatia. In this law, it will actually be a small change that will only unlock the door and follow, it will need to change many other laws, many other regulations, I believe that this procedure itself can take up to a year, if not more. So let's show that some willingness to be a modern state that will actually want and be able to help its people. When we look at it in another way, so in the world the needs of medical hemp are much, much larger than the quantities currently on the market, and therefore the prices that are currently on the market, are the consequence of all of this and in the future when the possibility of producing medical hemp and preparations from it would be opened, we have a huge potential to export and I believe that it would not, it would not be a problem to that end, which is a very climate-friendly country where it can be grown. Here, as far as other changes to the law itself are concerned, we definitely welcome the legal control of new psychoactive substances and what we define them for the first time in the law as drugs. Unfortunately, the psychoactive substances we had the opportunity to read and see last year that they are easily available, quite cheap and that even primary school students have quite easy access to them and this definition that they are now drugs and that there will be greater control and greater punishment for that, is definitely something that is an extremely good law change. The more over 250 new substances occur annually because manufacturers always reach out to everything they discover, the more they change a date, and still, unfortunately, they have an extremely bad and even sometimes deadly outcome for users who are most often children. Here, I call once again, this law is already a big step and it goes in a good direction and I ask you to consider the amendments submitted by the Club of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and to take a joint effort towards the possible possibility that we have legal and medical hemp production in the Republic of Croatia, meaning that this is not just consumption and use for medical purposes, but that we can produce our own, not to say medicines, but products that can significantly make life easier for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134539	I thank my colleague Maria Puh. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, last week I warned that one of the laws that should have long ago come to the agenda and a law that would allow industrial hemp to grow while exploiting the entire plant, which would actually make it easier for manufacturers to obtain permits for such production. Today, in HS, we are discussing exactly the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, which defines industrial hemp as a hemp on the common EU variety list with THC content of 0.2% and smaller and is not included in the list of drugs. I will visit that industrial hemp is allowed to grow only for the purpose of producing food and food for animals, it is possible to use seeds and flowers, while the rest of the plants must be destroyed. However, because of knowledge of the therapeutic potential of Indian hemp, it is used to relieve symptoms of the following diseases, multiple sclerosis, malignant diseases, HIV, AIDS, other neurological diseases such as Hantingen’s disease, Turet’s symptoms, epilepsy, Parkinson’s disease, therefore some countries, Great Britain, the Netherlands, further Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, and Canada and Israel have launched medical hemp programs to prevent patients from obtaining a drug of questionable quality in the illegal market. In this way patients are provided with a standard quality and efficiency medicine. Canada is among the first countries to allow the consumption of hemp for medical purposes. The Canadian legislation is still 2001. enabled patients with the permission of the Ministry of Health to grow medical hemp for their own purposes. However, due to a large number of licenses issued, there was a huge abuse and illegal trafficking in Indian hemp, which eventually forced the Canadian government to leave the responsibility of the production and distribution of medical hemp to licensed producers. The Netherlands is, in turn, within the 2003 medical hemp programme. start its own production to lower the price of the product and allow exports to other countries with the programme in place. Due to the complexity of medical hemp production is strictly regulated and subject to constant inspections. In the Czech Republic, medical hemp manufacturers can be exclusively licensed companies. Legal regulation also defines how medical hemp is prescribed to patients by doctors. Only electronic recipes are allowed for patients suffering from certain diseases such as cancer, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease and psoriasis. Recipes can only be prescribed by a specialist doctor. In Canada and the United States, treatment with cannabis brings great profits, much like in Israel. Thus, the world’s most developed countries have long used medical hemp production. In 2015, the Republic of Croatia granted legal application and availability of finished cannabis-based products by amending the Regulation on the criteria for the classification of medicinal products and the prescription and prescription of medicinal products. However, frequent remarks are that the use of marijuana for medical purposes in Croatia is not fully legalised. As it is not because it is not produced in Croatia, as it is not produced. Only imports of preparations from other countries and the possibility of preparation of gallenical marijuana products are permitted. The interest in growing industrial hemp has increased rapidly, and due to the changes mentioned in 2014 it has grown to about 2,500 hectares. Manufacturers have been constantly complaining since then that they have been placed in a more unfavourable position compared to producers of other EU members who can use the entire plant to generate additional income, according to some estimates of 35,000 kuna per hectare. Since the law has not been amended, many have given up production of industrial hemp in this case. In 2016, production was in Croatia at only 1000 hectares, and many potential foreign investors gave up. The SDP's view that for the cultivation of industrial hemp, as well as Indian hemp, has a large number of strong arguments, and the most important thing is that there are no restrictions on the placement of the product in quantity because demand is higher than the supply, especially organically produced hemp. As far as potential market saturation is concerned, there is no fear of such a phenomenon in the long run, and the fact that the plant can be used to process tens of thousands of products in the long run. Croatia is in an ideal position today as regards the potential of production. We have an excellent climate, a large amount of arable surface, we are in a good geostrategic position and we are a member of the EU. All of this opens us up to become the EU's leader in the fastest growing business of cannabis production. They should not allow such production to be made by someone else. If cultivation for medical purposes, hemp farming, was regulated legally, and is not now, it would allow the production of its own cannabis-based products for medical purposes and would thus enable patients to make these products more accessible and financially favourable. The demand for cannabis is high and production and exports can also bring significant revenue. We therefore believe that it is possible for Croatia to organise strictly under the control of the state of breeding medical hemp and therefore we will also submit an amendment to the existing law. The cultivation of medical hemp in Croatia will be possible if this Law on the control of drug abuse, which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia, is amended. The use of marijuana for recreational purposes, I am now talking about, for the first time legalized Uruguay, so Canada and the business make billions of euros. In Croatia, growing marijuana for recreational purposes has never actually spoken seriously. Legalisation of marijuana also has a positive impact on tourism because free consumption of marijuana could attract new guests. So-called marijuana or cannabis tourism was first developed by Amsterdam, and modelled by the Netherlands and other European countries, such as Spain, Portugal and the Czech Republic. Croatia, if decided to do so, by developing cannabis tourism, could extend the season and develop less-known destinations touristically. To produce hemp we have good.../incomprehensible/... conditions, enough light, enough warm days and moisture as well as enough quality surfaces. By amending laws that will allow the use of whole plants such as this, additional revenues can be made because hemp is a more profitable culture than standard cultures such as wheat or corn. But to grow Indian hemp for medical purposes, they needed to control strictly the conditions, moisture, light, temperature, which are achieved only in protected areas, greenhouses. Products of this Indian hemp must have standard quality and efficiency. Therefore, in this case, we cannot talk about the advantages of Croatia due to large hectares of arable land, but in order to legalise and legalise marijuana for personal use, it is thought, first of all, of growing a small amount of plants, from 4 to 6 plants, that does not require significant areas because it is grown in jars. Given that Croatia is a highly tourist country and given the positive experience of many EU Member States, but also in the world, in the context of business development related to industrial hemp production, it should put on the agenda and the full legalisation of marijuana for recreational purposes. I believe that legalisation and liberalisation under the control of the state would result in additional growth and revenue that could be directed towards the creation of new jobs. The result of the legalisation of cannabis is further development of the tourism sector, the growth of agricultural production and, consequently, GDP growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134541	I thank my colleague Bernardic. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134542	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, I'll just refer to what's more or less said in the first reading. Of course we support all efforts and all proposals in terms of legalization and cannabis and market liberalisation and production and for getting medicines and all other opportunities provided here. That's the attitude we've been in HNS for 20, 30 years since the draft itself, and we're sorry it wasn't like that in that previous government, if we had a consensus back then, this might be a dog to discuss today, but we're still staying with it, and of course we think that this would certainly be a step in all of this, so I don't repeat what my colleagues mentioned before me and Mrs. Puh and Mr. Bernardic. What is done here by law, what is the very essence of this law that we have welcomed in our first reading, which is absolutely necessary and necessary, is to arrange this monster that struck our adolescents first and foremost as regards the use of certain psychoactive substances, so-called. Legal Highs or air freshener whatever you call it. And I think that these principles we've done a good thing, we've actually taken a good step, and we've done a very important thing in our citizens' lives, especially when we're talking about fighting addiction. Therefore, this bill certainly regulates the conditions for growing plants from which drugs can be obtained, as I have already said before, supervision and who can have the making and what is really important, the substances that can be obtained, which can be used for the production of drugs, the control of the cultivation of drugs from which drugs can be obtained, and the production, possession and trafficking of drugs. Why owning it here would underline, so just as one of the possibilities of prevention is that so far we have had a situation where when something happened to the user, whether it was driven to an emergency or anywhere else the doctors couldn't rule it out in their possession in order to further process it than they had to automatically report it, in fact, we didn't have that first notification system that was possible so far. So, the early warning system that is being introduced here and around which I have had both the proposal and the replica that I have referred to, in fact, to these changes is the obligation of all bodies, institutions and other legal persons involved in the HZZO information delivery system acting as a national coordinator. Now, in this context, I proposed in my first reading a unique system of information that would unite all institutions, as it is here and said, and introduced it into the law so that it would be legally regulated so that it would not accidentally turn out to be illegal, if someone collected or some applications with images of drugs etc. This must be legally foreseen. Because here as a colleague said, although in the text they wrote that there is an application available on the portal, not on the portal available apps, but on certain providers that provide download of these applications, but well, it's important that there are. But it's the police, and now you know when someone, a parent, finds something like that, a bag with a child, and now he has to report it to the police. I already see half of them here that they won't, that they're afraid, that maybe they don't want to get in the way the police say it in the crowd. But if we have a unique system that is at HZZO where the application is, where search can be done, where images can be viewed, where they can already compare the already existing ones found, found, found, reported early, composing and even, under or excluded, then they would certainly get a greater effect of prevention, a greater effect not only of prevention but of what the meaning and these words of early reporting are. That in the first place, when it's found, we don't have any more consequences and wait for another 50, 100 or no more of them to be used by God. In this sense, it goes, my proposal and the legislative changes were to simply introduce it into the law in its preambul, in determining the concept of this unique reporting system which would then be prescribed by the Minister by the regulation whether it was with the HZZJ that would pool all the data from the State Inspectorate of the application, by the police to report through this application and absolutely anything else by the citizens who might be willing to send something on the information to a Public Health Office rather than to the police themselves. And that's actually the main question. And of course where you could find, if anything else to inform yourself about these systems through keywords, products etc., or through the images themselves to see. So we can surf online today, look for someone else to come knocking on our door and ask why you're investigating these illegal substances or whatever you're doing. So that's why it has to be legally regulated or at least introduced as an option, that it's under strict supervision, specifically where we have the possibility of applying, whether with the OIB, without the OIB, whether anonymously, unanonymously, simply encouraged people to be able to report without any concern. It was the purpose of this proposal, and it will be something that I may personally try to amend, hopefully to please the Proposer to continue to accept. So, the app exists with the police, but let's unify what's in one part of it, find either one application or one place where we can, because they don't have all those smart phones that can report it, and so far it's the only option. Of course, the law foresees as I have said and abolished, mentioning earlier the issue of special authorisations for transporting drugs across the territory in accordance with other countries, means both a kind and a alignment given that this law and that P.Z.E. mark, so we are here and harmonize with the acquis. And now we come to the other part, what we can welcome is certainly defining the concept of industrial hemp as hemp on the common EU variety list with the content of thc below 0.2% and 0.2% and less. And this enables the use of the whole plant as we heard it in construction, textile, cosmetic, auto-industry, paper industry, etc., etc. That's what's good, what I can also welcome is a more elaborate article relating to promotion, drug advertising, and more fines for violations committed by legal persons who refer to the possession of precisely these when we speak air freshener, where in one pervasive way you want to through some new substances, changed so far legally unrecorded, sell what is absolutely not your advertised or name, if the air freshener, therefore, is at least not actually used on what the product as advertised intended. Now, I'm only interested in one situation, for the art. 10. where it is mentioned, I am really interested in this now, and I am going to do this in an individual way, if I have to go with the amendment, since I see that an amendment colleague has been announced on other articles, I have not heard that someone touched, and according to what I said at first, it is an art. 10. which says that the purchase of macaque intended for the manufacture of drugs can be carried out by legal persons who have the approval of the Ministry of Health for the ransom, and then the approval, etc., etc. I wonder why there wouldn't be a buy-in of mac and hemp, what's the difference? Why, I think it's a lot, if we're talking in terms of drugs, a lot, so, weightier drugs, if we get opium or I don't know, what not much harder drugs, out of hemp we know what we're getting, why don't we put the hemps here, just to go not only on what we heard earlier on, about making hemps, not before what we said about legalization, we can absolutely support it all, but why don't we bring it in here with the ransom, when we already have the buy-in of the hemp, so, just by inserting that word, we'd be able to buy and import raw materials for the manufacture of drugs or hemp products, and then we've solved all the possibilities and our own preparation of all those necessary hemp-based medicines, or cannabis-based medicines. I think it's something I'd like to hear in any way in my argument, and I think it's something I'll personally take if I have to, because I don't really see that very big difference, but the difference is only in favor of the existing legislation that can buy and make drugs out of them, and hemp can't. So here we're not talking about production, here we're not talking about growing for recreational purposes, what we're going to support, here we're talking about the same principle if someone can buy the mac, introduce it and produce certain drugs, sedatives or whatever, against the pains of drugs based on mac, opium, whatever, why don't we do the same with hemp? Here, that's something that remains questionable and in which direction I will personally submit if I need an amendment. Of course, this is something that, with this we can't state with this bill, change the law because we know that the continuously always market for this intoxicating drug is changing rapidly, quickly reacting, and so we need to monitor and enable all mechanisms that they actually follow through regulations, through abdicating or refreshing these lists, these substances that are banned etc., etc. And in that sense goes the first part of me that I'm going to try to do with a change of suitor to accept that it's doing this unique independent part of any repressive apparatus where people can search, you can see under, of course, logging in, so there's no abuse, etc., etc. Here, thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134543	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. We move on to individual debates, respected colleague Ana Komarić Devcic, is not present. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, well, here I want to say at the beginning of my debate that I will support this bill. I'm going to support him because I think he's better than the existing state, but I want to point out some of the things that I pointed to when I first read, which I'm not happy with because they're not even accepted in this second reading. So, the first thing that makes me happy, which is good, which I said two months ago when we first discussed this, is that it finally stops at the end of so-called. air moisturizers, which were a very big problem and were fatal to our young people and whose producers, have jumped all these declarations and ways to ban them, I think this legislative proposal finally puts an end to it and gives a quick and effective way of doing it, I think it's very good and should be stressed, it should be welcomed. The other thing, I also welcome the legalization of industrial hemp production, as well as this use of whole stems, not just seeds so far, and what I'm not satisfied with is that we didn't go one step further, so we didn't legalize and manufacture hemp for medical purposes. Now I'm gonna say why. First, although there was resistance during the first reading or we were clearly given the knowledge that this would not happen after the events that occurred in the meantime, I said so in the replica at the beginning, after the President of the Republic of Croatia pardoned Juanita for the production of hemp used for his treatment, after that request had been processed by the Ministry of Justice which is an integral part of this government, so I concluded from these events which occurred, that neither the government nor the president of the Republic had any problem with the fact that marijuana or hemp products for medical purposes, the more we are here in this debate that we have advocated to legalise the production of medical hemps, we have advocated that it was under control in certain laboratory conditions, so, controlled by the state, there was a suggestion that it could be produced by the Immunological institute, so, we did not understand that everyone in our own house, so much as we knew that we had access to the law and the regulations that we had to do so in our own. Why? Because now it is no longer necessary to discuss at all that it is useful for people who are suffering from certain diseases, that I am not listing it here because it is already mentioned in the debate before me, but because these people who need hemp for treatment, today are forced to obtain high prices from imports, from Canada and from some other countries, while in the Republic of Croatia we do not have production. Now people who don't have money to pay for it still get that marijuana on the black market, get it under the table, uncontrollably, and there's even more to it than black market, stronger, stronger dealers, there's even the danger of quality they get. Therefore, there is no argument that marijuana is not legalized for medical purposes under the control of the state, which would benefit patients, which would ultimately benefit the country itself and would also protect the health of the people who need it. And the other thing, I'm going to say that, I have to point out that this use that we now have marijuana for medical purposes, is exactly the decision on the legalization of use, has been made by the SDP Government in 2015, so that we've done something about it, this is already the same step forward, but the legalisation itself for industrial production and what you said in the introduction and what it says in the light of the law that industrial hemp is not drugs and that can't be used for that, or very difficult, is the same thing with hemp being used for medical purposes, so there's no reason, no argument that it's not legalized either. Secondly, in the Republic of Croatia today we have some drugs that are much bigger drugs and are more dangerous than marijuana itself, that now I don't list them here again and they're legal, they're allowed to produce, they're allowed to sell, and marijuana can't, it doesn't make any sense, there's no argument drinking water on the issue of ban. Third, I also advocated the legalisation of marijuana for recreational purposes in my first reading, and I want to mention it here again and I want to explain it again. Why do I stand for it? He would be happy to open the debate, so let's see how we can handle it, but if we finally start talking about it, that's what I see the opportunity for the Croatian economy. So we as a tourist country in the form of legalisation of marijuana for recreational purposes can take advantage of the opportunity with Amsterdam, with Portugal, with Spain, with the Czech Republic and with some other European countries where, with tourists coming to us for beautiful shores and good weather, people would come to us because in the area of the Republic they could enjoy drugs. Once again, I want to say here that I have never personally tried marijuana or any other form of drugs, I know that there are some opponents of legalisation and drugs that are properly enjoyed and consumed and I find it hypocritical, but I believe that in this very touristic sense, the Republic has a great opportunity and a great chance and we do not always have to be the last and we do not have to be the last EU country to legalise marijuana. So, marijuana has been present for decades in the world and we already know all the consequences of the consumption of marijuana, its use, it's not something new, it's not something we don't know anything about, there are examples of countries that have legalized it, where it's used normally, and we can use their experience and their examples, so as far as addiction itself is concerned, addiction is evil, but there are some much more dangerous things than marijuana that cause aggression, let's say alcohol, which cause human lives to suffer and that would be discussed, it's certainly a topic for discussion, and I hope that it will be very soon open in our society, and that we will also go to legalization of all of all that. I would not like the Republic of Croatia to be the last EU country to legalise it, after I don't know, for example Italy, Greece, countries in our environment, and that when everyone already takes a chance and everybody makes a good living, then we too remember when it is generally present, let's say as cigarettes, we are always the last. Now, I think that we have one chance to be first, that we can be in front of everyone and I strongly advocate it and I support it, but of course, with an open public debate under which conditions this would be used and in what way, a reasoned debate and that we talk openly, but with clear indicators of what it means for our country and how much we would benefit as a country financially and in touristic terms. Here, this is it, so I'm not completely satisfied, I'm sorry, first of all, that it's not legalized hemp for medical purposes, I don't see why it couldn't be legalized for industrial purposes, so it was a great opportunity to do it now, but here, my colleague Celic said in his debate on behalf of the HDZ Club that by the end of the term of office hemp is expecting another amendment of this law, and I read from it that he may be sending us a message that even legalizing himself by the end of the term of office of this government means, in a year and using hemp for medical purposes, since he is now appointed president of that commission that determines it, and that I realized from his debate that this will change it once again, here, I am optimistic that by the end of the term of our HS will now be legalized and production of hemp for medical purposes. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134545	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. We have a replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134546	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djujic, I also believe that in due course we will come to our senses, I will say so and yet choose to grow medical hemp because when we have already legalized it or made available products that need to help people who are in certain kinds of health problems, then it is more logical, that we produce something ourselves, making it cheaper, more affordable, we probably have quality control than we are getting those products from Canada now, that is, we have a chance to see that they are at 8.9 months. Unfortunately, our patients are not even available in the pharmacy, because those we ordered were reluctantly prescribed by doctors. Those preparations had to be thrown, and the new ones weren't ordered. Here, now we hear from Mr. Secretary of State, that finally, after a year, they've been ordered a new one. So I hope it comes to that but later.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134547	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabini Glasovac, answer from my fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134548	A fellow Glasovac, therefore, of the existing situation, benefits only import lobbys, i.e. the countries that produce it, which are the most developed countries and then sell it to us at 3.4 times the price of which they could produce the black market themselves. Because whoever needs it, who needs it, is going to do everything and try to do it in every possible way, and unfortunately, there's no money to buy it at 3-4 times the price in pharmacies or where it's already being sold, but then buy it on the black market 5-6 times cheaper, but it's not every time sure of the quality of it and it's not sure what it buys. And that's why both you and I and one large part of you advocate that it is legalized, that, ultimately, all of us and the state benefit through VAT and through income and through production, and these users themselves, who will get a quality product at a realistic price.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134549	I thank my colleague Djujic for his reply. The next debate, respected counterpart Goran Aleksic, is not present. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134550	Thank you, dear Vice President. When it comes to hemp, there are three aspects, first industrial hemp, that Indian hemp for medical purposes and recreational use of that Indian hemp. I commend the promoter for liberalising the production of industrial hemp and its change. It's just amazing that we should have waited so long to make this kind of change, and sometimes every Slavonic village had at least one craftsman of fire or even a whole... Normally, industrial hemp was grown and ropes were normally produced from it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has a very small percentage of THC only 0.2%, so it can't be considered a drug, it should be a layer, a whole layer and an industrial hemp to get the effect of a joint. When it comes to the medical use of Indian hemp, then I think there's an incredible cynicism in part. Use is allowed but production is prohibited. So whoever needs to buy it at the pharmacy, and the monthly dose costs 600 euros. So who makes money asking you State Secretary? Who's making money? Which is in the interest of importing the product instead of being manufactured, because it has to be someone. Be careful, it's completely illogical to allow consumption, but no production is allowed. That's completely illogical. There's only one interest behind that. I want to make money on that import. People are suffering from malignant diseases of multiple sclerosis, I don't know, psoriasis, of, we've heard from a colleague, Linic Strenje, this cannabis doesn't treat, but it helps patients, reduces their pain, relieves their problems. So I'm wondering the secretary of state, who now has something on your cell phone, and you don't care what the agent says. I ask you, where's your soul, where's your heart? So how can you tell people who suffer, but we will not allow you the law to help yourself? I won't let you grow five marijuana stems, because you're sick and it hurts, but let it hurt. Because that's your attitude, an incomprehensible attitude, completely incomprehensible. Look at that Indian hemp, with a high degree of THC to be effective for medical purposes, it cannot be produced just like that in a jar, it must be produced under controlled conditions, if we want full effect. Of course it helps this one, but not as much as the one that was raised in a sleeping manner. But you didn't get it into the law either. To say, it will be produced in Croatia, but it will be produced in certain plants, under state control, in any case, we will do everything we can to avoid imports. To avoid imports, which I don't know how many times it costs, but then to have our own production. The third aspect is the recreational use of Indian hemp, or marijuana consumption, to be very simple. There are things that create addiction and far greater and far more dangerous, the most dangerous is alcohol because it also causes aggression. And how many people died as a result of alcohol abuse? They get drunk and they kill themselves with axes, so this guy kills his wife, well, and alcohol is legal, legal. He's legal and tobacco. We know it's harmful. We know that the cause of many diseases is especially, but legally, and marijuana that is not harmful because it has not been proven to be harmful, there is no medical study anywhere to prove that it is harmful, can only help these sick, and can serve the healthy as well as tobacco. And I don't see why, then, why not let it happen. Well, good because you really think that Canada is a non-serious country, Canada is the last one to allow, legalize the use of marijuana, do you think that there are fools in power, that there are all idiots out there who don't know how to make a smart decision, or do you think you're smarter than them? I, there's an argument we'll step up, we'll improve tourism, it's not an argument for me because it hurts, so I don't care what helps tourism if it hurts, but if it doesn't hurt, then why forbid it. Why don't you legalize it, which is why I don't get it. The police are getting tired of catching marijuana consumers to do more serious business, she's looking for people in these disco clubs with a joint, so I guess she's got better things to do for the police than doing that. So it's completely incomprehensible to me that you didn't now allow this law of production for medical purposes and I urge you to go to the government before Friday, so on Thursday, it's the government and bring the government amendment to at least make that law logical, reasonable, reasonable. And don't let me doubt that I, not many people, that one of you from the government has a profit, has a pin on importing cannabis oil from Canada. Why don't you help these sick people, explain it to me, why, why condemn them to more suffering than they have to suffer, why, so that you and your ministry can turn out to be so smart. So if you're all right, then forgive me, please. So I expect you State Secretary to tell the Minister that you go to the government on Thursday and bring in the government's amendment and fix this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134551	Thank you, fellow Stazic. We have replicas. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134552	You just mentioned that there are no arguments to justify why marijuana is not legal for medical purposes. Now, I've already said the same thing in my discussion about what happened between the two readings, but you know what else is signifying to me today, so no one from HDZ is discussing, here is just two colleagues and a colleague of the club who spoke on behalf of the club is the only one and reported for individual debate. When we had our first reading a month and a half ago, there was this 10 colleagues from HDZ who attacked us that we were for drugs, that people would start doing drugs, that we would introduce a miracle in Croatia, etc. And now that we're in the finale of that law, there's no one else, no one's against it anymore, and now that I'm a little bit blurry and insolent, I don't know where they are, if they're writing any amendments so they can legalize it, or now I don't know it because of the election campaign, so they're all gone, so they don't want to say something that they know is justified and that they should do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134553	I thank my colleague Djujic and my colleague Stazic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134554	Well, you've noticed that well, and it's a good sign for me, it's a good sign for me that there are none here but absolutely none of the HDZ, and we have one that, hallelujah. Yes, it's a good sign, they probably want to oppose what it's pointless to oppose. How to oppose helping sick people, so who can do it normal, who can do it normal. And since they're not there, it seems to me to be a sign that maybe the Secretary of State will listen to me and come to the government with an amendment to fix this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134555	Thank you, fellow Stazic. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134556	Thank you, Vice President, and my debate today will be related to this final proposal of the law will go in the direction that other MPs, colleagues, have spoken, and this is actually the part that concerns that the Government did not accept proposals from the first reading, that the law introduce articles that would refer to, to the permit of production, its own production in Croatia under controlled conditions of cannabis for medical purposes or popularly speaking medical cannabis. Why is it that, why am I going to speak simply because it's really incomprehensible that, if you hadn't listened because so many arguments that are speaking in the direction that these changes should have taken place, that there was a need to allow the cultivation of medical cannabis, and what you actually put into the explanation is arguments that are simply difficult to do, we would say hold water. And I'll explain why I think so. What I said to you at the beginning of the opening presentation, and as far as this commission is concerned, I must say that it is a little confusing to me that in some way it is amazing to me that more than two years in fact, and despite the calls, means, the president, the former president of the commission, that commission, has not met because the fact is that neither, nor has one later, called a committee meeting to analyse the situation as regards imports of medical cannabis, themselves, therefore, an indication of prescriptions for the use of medical cannabis, nor has it come out with any analysis of the use itself, and we know what happened this year that actually left the market in the Republic of Croatia without the medical cannabis itself, and the patients, all of whom they needed and who had to use, were not legally in use. In those two years, so this government has absolutely done nothing. After that, here, let's say fortunately there was a turn and now that you've named a fellow cell, I hope that there will be some shifts, it should have been read, this first reading of the law that you might be under a little pressure from us MPs who talked about the law in the first reading, including the media, and the very case of Juanito Luksetic and others, which are, as well as public and famous persons who spoke about their problems, so that something is triggered. What's also interesting, and it's kind of not good, and it's not exactly honoring you as the Ministry of Health is the fact that you haven't answered your inquiry in over a year at the Faculty of Agriculture, and it's been donated to the Office of Chemistry for the production of cannabis, and they wanted it donated from the Ministry of State Administration, property, and they need your permission to do scientific research that would be in this direction of production or efficiency of quality medical cannabis production. So the equipment at the university stands, the interest exists, however, from the Ministry of Health of that response for more than a year there has been no. Here's what I hear, a colleague of the same cellic now advocates it, so I hope there will be an answer, but also that this equipment will not remain unused, but that we will have scientific evidence of how it is grown, what quality and what everything it takes to step up with the latest scientific achievements in this area. You said that in the argument, therefore, why you did not enter this article or these provisions of the law, you said that it is very rarely prescribed, and why it is rarely prescribed, so it has been said several times, simply because a very small group of doctors can prescribe medical cannabis at all. Even the former chairman of the commission and himself admitted his own guilt because it is so stated in the rule and it is certainly something that needs to be corrected, but you should state that, therefore, the mistake was not on the doctors, it is not a patient error, it is not a fault on them, therefore, it is simply a fault on the rulebook or on the provisions that only very small numbers and small groups of doctors made such a thing possible. You said that, yes, that very little consumption of products was recorded, so how would it be more consumption if, right now, we just said, it's been prescribed, how would it be consumption? You don't actually have the results of the illegal use of cannabis for medical purposes, and it definitely has, it's been said, it's been made public and that's why we should pass this law. It is precisely that what people take into account under uncontrollable conditions, illegally obtained, to put in controlled conditions, to be able to monitor and to be able to always keep in mind, so that we can always know what kind of benefits a person takes and what benefits he has, such as benefites or what he has, say negative side effects of taking medical cannabis, we will not have, the results will not have until we create the conditions that will enable us to do so, and the conditions we could have not only, therefore, by reducing the price, by not once liberalisation in terms of a wider group of doctors who could prescribe, but also by extending the very indications of prescription because there are certainly other patients who would be welcome or good at using medical cannabis in easing symptoms. When you say that cannabis is itself, medical cannabis is only a relief, therefore, symptoms, not a cure, we all know that many medicines or what is prescribed, so here for multiple sclerosis are certainly not all medicines that treat disease, but there are certainly those that relieve certain symptoms and we need to see to what extent something is similar and to what extent therefore in some way even cannabis can be considered a medicine. So, the price is really going to be and we need to see it, but what we're up for and what I support if we went into our own production, probably that price and availability would be higher, and then we'd certainly make it possible for a wider circle of patients, use, use of the medical cannabis itself. Here I hope that change will take place, you said probably at this point there is no political will, but we still have to say that there is no political will in HDZ that this is still going to harm the citizens at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134557	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alfirev. We have a replica of a esteemed colleague, Sinisha Varga, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134558	I thank Mr. Vice President, colleague Alfirev only termologically here I have not participated in all the debates but when we talk about medical cannabis or cannabis used for medical purposes I am the advocate of this first one, I believe that you are also just a termological when saying cannabis used for medical purposes is the one on the illegal market, and used by the way for medical purposes, medical cannabis as such and the one that has been laboratoryly grown under very controlled conditions with exactly, certain varieties that give certain results and products that are made of it cannaboids, oil etc. which, in the form of a medicine, means that it has, has a medicinal product in terms of the gel capsule and what we advocate and we try to make as much use of it as possible. I'd just like to ask you as a social worker, how are your experiences with punishing the people who used cannabis? for medical purposes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134559	Thank you, dear colleague Varga. Answer, colleague Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134560	Well, I'm glad you're also talking about the termological part, so I certainly accept the termological part because you're more professional here and I accept that the termology of medical cannabis is being used, and this second part is hardly something I can tell you here I have no experience of being punished. What I know, and that's what you've certainly seen through the media, and what's really inadmissible, is that people who, who need and who in no other way can't come to a drug that relieves their symptoms, if there's nothing else that eases, but to a significant extent and improves the quality of life, must resort to illegal methods to get to that yet rescue means of survival.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134561	I thank my colleague Alfirev for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134562	Thank you very much, colleague Alfirev, you said there is no political will and that is correct and that is one reason why this bill still leaves out the legalization of medical hemp production, since we are already legalizing industrial production and that is it. And you can see that from this debate today. So there's no one from HDZ except two colleagues, only Collic discusses it. So, a month and a half ago, we were bombed there by our colleagues, by 8, 9, each other was an attack on us, an argument as to why it wasn't good and why it doesn't have to be, today it's not. So I think, and that political will is about to change a little because my colleagues know I can't defend indefensibly, and also the appearance of a fellow cellmate who said that in a year we can expect another change in me shows a softening of that hard attitude, and I believe once again that this political will soon come.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134563	I thank my colleague, Djujic, for her answer to my colleague, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134564	Well, we agree with that, so at this point we only see that there are really two colleagues on the opposite side, of which Colic is really there because he's also on duty I would say, because indeed the president of the medical cannabis commission, I hope there will be a change because it is necessary, it is an necessity. It may have contributed to the pardon by RS President Juanita Luksetic, possibly that too, but I say I'm sorry we're not doing this right now, because because of the lack of political will some people are patients being discontinued, but here I hope there will be a change in this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134565	I thank my colleague, Alfirev. Just a reminder, and I'm in HDZ, so there's three of us. Dear colleague Cellic replica please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134566	And dear colleague Alfirev here I will continue here on this terminology, namely the legal definition of medical hemp is not yet well regulated, so perhaps it would be better to use, I would still prefer to use Indian hemp for medical purposes, rather than medical hemp, because it is not regulated at EU level in the European Parliament resolution is just talking about that fact. However, if we would even exclude that hemp production for medical purposes, if we get the plant raw material that is currently available on the market and if we want to extract oil from that plant raw material even these options are not available at this point, but here I think we are not on the opposite sides but on the common side and we are fighting what is in the patient's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134567	Thank you. Comrade Alfirev, thank you very much. Next debate, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the honourable secretary of state, we welcome the steps in new amendments and additions to the Law on the abuse of intoxicating drugs in the sense that we will deal more clearly with the trait not only of the government in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the whole of the EU, which they are also fighting quite a battle, which is the emergence of new psychoactive substances that simply increase from year to year, the consequences are fatal, these are products that are not classical drugs, but in some ways they imitate or are alternative, mimic the effects of certain drugs which, we call it, classical drugs, but what is the problem is that they are easily available, very often legal, that because of these cheapness and easier availability, children and young people, and their consequences are fatal by health and often not often, but not necessarily fatal consequences. This is certainly something that such legislation will contribute to stronger prevention, recognition of new psychoactive substances, but not less important or more important, actually sanctioning or rapid response. Secondly, it is good that the law solves or evens the procedure, so far we know how to treat intoxicating substances or drugs that have been taken away in criminal proceedings, which was not the case for those taken away into so-called. Infringements, therefore, are now regulated in the same way and it is good that they have already mentioned that we are moving forward with some trends, some even civilizational, normal performances and fair play in the competition that we leave our farmers in the same rank as those in the EU and we allow the development of various industrial branches through the possibility of using and the stems of industrial hemps because so far, unfortunately, we are based only on the use of seeds and this was done by the moss for the purpose of the food industry, in this way we also encourage the cosmetic and auto industry and numerous other branches of the economy and construction and fuel, which in some ways, somehow comes first to us when we talk about both industrial hemp and its full usability. These are good steps, we also proposed them in our proposal to amend the law about 6 to 8 months ago in the HS that the government refused. But, well, I see that at least it has served you to compose some good solutions in your bill, I think they are at the end of the Croatian law and I am glad that still these parliamentary initiatives and legislative initiatives and parliamentary debates find somehow, after some time if they are good, if they are good, their place under the sun, and so is our initiative, the legislative initiative that was then conducted by a colleague, Sinisha Varga, has found its place in your government's proposal of law. However, we always come to the other part, so, what you did not take or take, and we see that in the parliamentary debate there is actually a high level of consent, I will dare say, among the actors, at least as far as I have heard, all the political parties are ready for a step more, and that is a permit, that is, to allow breeding so-called. Medical hemp. We all remember very often this case, as the gentleman was called, I have now blocked, Luxetic and, unfortunately, it has broken the whole system where he was somehow proven, prosecuted, eventually and convicted of growing intoxicated drugs, in this case marijuana. However, the law does not recognise, or in this case, that it did not grow that amount of drugs, these few stems for its abuse in terms of reselling, but to ease its pain and so on. However, on the other hand, the second court in Pula in a similar case of a lady who also planted 9 hemp stems, hemps because she suffered from AIDS from which hepatitis C came, and she also grew and used marijuana to ease the effects of the disease, was actually released by the court in Pula on the basis of judicial skill, and just given the fact that her, let's call it, the crime had no intention of poisoning society, of violating other people's health, of doing some bad consequences for society, which is why we need to be condemned and go to prison as some kind of, let's call it a pedagogical measure, to realize that such behaviours were not socially acceptable, but that its act was also to ease our pain. Now, unfortunately, we have these different judicial practices, and that's something that we don't really talk about here today, but because of Mr. Luxetic, and also of what came out, pardons, we're talking about this subject today, and we can't touch that. However, we live in a society where it is legal to smoke, sell cigarettes, grow tobacco, consume alcohol to sell, buy alcohol even though these two substances, proven, develop addiction and have neither but not one, nor a small positive effect. So everything that comes from tobacco and alcohol products is harmful, it's harmful to health, it can be harmful, directly to families and society, the consequences of enjoyment, but it's normal to us, it's legal, it's even encouraged in some sense by agricultural incentives. And with hemp, where we actually have some harmful side effects, but we have positive effects, we're not really clean with ourselves, we've allowed it to be used, thank God for medical purposes, but there's a little bit of resuscitation here, and that's where we don't even think about it, so now we can make sure that it's still being planted, that it's growing. Well, it's very simple. I don't think I have to mention, what my colleagues said, how much this would actually contribute to accessibility probably to lower prices, to some regulation of quality and to our sufferers of special diseases, if I didn't list them here now, but they're often listed, that would be really life worth it, and the solution, we would help them a lot. And on the other hand, we could look at it in terms of export space, space for some extra income from the Republic of Croatia. Greece, at the end of last year, was heading in that direction, legalizing hemp farming for medical purposes. Macedonia, neighbouring Macedonia, the Ohrid line, large plantations, of course, fenced with wire, which must not, or, fences, which must not be less than 3 m, special supervision of specific cultivation conditions etc. etc. So they say it's, I mean it's the market, it's known to be a market that's turning around somewhere around six billion, I think. In 10-15 years, it is assumed that the amount to be rotated on that market will triple. Macedonians also say most of it is focused on exports, exports mostly to Germany and exports to Poland. Interest in medical hemp farming has shown, as I say Greece and Serbia. Maybe it wouldn't be bad, with this when we think about our citizens, how not to introduce expensive preparations, but to provide our preparations for our patients, but how might we go through exports and position ourselves here in the region before some others. Here, so much for my contribution to this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134569	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Replica, dear colleague Sinisha Varga, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134570	I thank, here, fellow Sabine, all of what you have said about influence and public perception about cases that have been tried in the media, perhaps you can comment on how this works on young people, in terms of judgment, in the process of education and education, about their knowledge of drug abuse, about drug abuses, the impact of drugs on young organisms. We now have a situation that de facto on the one hand the government says it's illegal, it can't be used, the judiciary is pardoned and the president herself is carrying out this pardon. Now the question is, how, here, if I'm confused about all this, then how do young people look at it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134571	Thank you, colleague Varga, for your answer, Sabina.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134572	Hard question.../The speaker excluded and re-enabled./... in terms of sufficient education and prevention related to drug abuse and drug harmfulness, not only drugs but also alcohol and tobacco products and pills if you want to end up. And on the other hand, there are cases like this, where a man who wants to help himself ends up in prison, reduces the pain or some dog Bear who barks, and some criminals who may need to get pedagogical measures, take a little rest, and think about their actions, are respected citizens and walk the streets peacefully, and they are as an example of social values. And the young are, of course, confused here and you can raise them I don't know how to be honest, that by their hard work, they can achieve everything, as much as they stand for and good at what they do will be rewarded... see second, that the system is disrupted... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134573	I thank my colleague Voter for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sinisha Varga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here I will use this short time in these evening hours, primarily to notice that this topic is being discussed this time of day, it is something reserved for topics that are uncomfortable, for the current power, and that is now my question, why this law, which finally solves many issues regarding drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, solves the final issue of the day after tomorrow and all synthetic drugs, which were available to young people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the illegal market. However, their regulation was not good. The judicial authorities, the police bodies, the lab, couldn't handle these substances properly, and finally this law solves it with, unfortunately, almost 2 years of delay, but, behold, if at least now but never. What kept me quiet, as well as most here, is the question of this unfortunate medical cannabis we have great efforts made by the Ministry of Health during my period, that through the Committee on Medical Cannabis, to make this step, to teach doctors about new knowledge, colleague Strenja Linic was talking about... and what the expert literature states, such as all areas of medicine, which di can be applied medical cannabis, i.e. cannabis in the use of medical purposes to facilitate symptomatic what in infectious diseases, neurological diseases and, above all, oncological diseases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These areas are quite limited, the world's literature is also talking about other areas, and I hope that the new chairman of the Committee of the Ministry, Col. Celic, will also use his knowledge and authority to expand the indications, especially in the field of treatment of chronic pain, these are indications that are not yet covered today. I can say that I personally from my experience have been through treatment of cancer, in mine, while I was sick, I had no access to medical cannabis but have been using extremely severe analgesics produced by Croatian pharmaceutical companies, Croatian pharmaceutical companies, diazepam products, morphine-based products, fentanyl-based products, all of this is done in the Republic of Croatia, and these are all drugs that are much, much harder and much more deadly in their abuse than ever, which will ever be cannabis. However, there I have never heard a complaint from the Ministry of the Interior or anyone in the judicial bodies that there is a security gap in Croatian pharmaceutical companies in the manufacture of these medicines, they are very well regulated by the Ministry of Health, and by, health care, and by the Croatian Medicines and Medical Devices Agency. Production licences have been issued and controlled, and GNP, and good manufacturing practice is very well regulated, generally as medicines are produced in the Republic of Croatia and throughout Europe, but in Croatia the Agency for Medicinal Products is doing this in a very sovereign and quality way, from which we have continued commendation from the European Medicines Agency, and can be counted on, count all those pharmaceutical companies that have licenses in Croatia to produce psychotropic substances and substances produced on the basis of drugs. And all we ask here is that according to this Act, along with all other drugs produced in the Republic of Croatia and used almost every day in treatment, only to add medical cannabis to the list. Nothing more and nothing less. We are not looking for any plant cultivation on balconies or attic houses, we are asking that pharmaceutical companies in the Republic of Croatia can produce medical cannabis for the purposes of Croatian patients in laboratoryly very strictly controlled conditions. And we can forget about the profits, we can forget about everything else, we want the medicine available to Croatian patients with continued supply of medicines. We have a similar problem with the Immunology Institute. Why it is necessary to have an Immunological Institute in the Republic of Croatia, let's almost say it for the same reason. That we have continued availability of vaccines for the needs of Croatian citizens. My colleague told me earlier that because he had not been vaccinated as a child, he had to go now as an adult to be vaccinated against measles, and when it came to the second dose he had to take, they informed him that there is not a single dose in the Public Health Services in Croatia, there is not a single dose of measles vaccine. It's a disturbing fact. There is also no availability of medical cannabis in the Republic of Croatia for patients with neurological, infectious and oncology symptoms that are used to reduce the symptoms of their disease. And that's something that's about the availability of healthcare, we're the worst rated right now that we've ever been. In 2014, we were classified in, if we look at the countries of the Republic of Croatia through the prism of traffic lights, Croatia was yellow, in 2015 was green, 2016 and 2017 yellow, today we are red in terms of the availability of health care. Europe outside is looking at us, assessing us, ranking us with other countries and Croatia is ranked among the red countries on the availability of health care. And that's something that I, as a Croatian citizen, must present to the Ministry of Health that at the time of sleep and the time of passivity of the Ministry, the time to take a job and work actively on it. Take the first step as counterpart Stazic said, by Friday you have until you have time, accept the amendments that will get you here or make the biggest step out of the government itself to come an amendment to correct this injustice in this law. Croatian patients need this, and you can say that you, like, know each other very well... the way in which legal structures are considered within the Ministry itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can talk about alienation, you can talk about the distance from the real world in that, this bureaucratic sacrifice, but if you don't want the Ministry to do it for the people and for the patients, then you can do it because of your rope and wider relatives that today in today's patient disease, you'll get some neurological or cancer during your life in roulette that we live every day is a huge probability that someone will get sick from some malignant or neurological disease. Well, eventually, if you don't want to do it for your family or your family's wider or your family's rope, then do it for yourself. It's almost 40% on the chance that by your 80th birthday, you'll be sick of some malignant disease, it's in roulette if someone told you the chance to get a roulette 40%, then it's almost certain victory, but then there's almost a certain loss. Therefore, if you get sick, ensure for yourself the necessary medicines you need for your treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134575	I thank my colleague, Vargo. We're moving on to replicas. Did you report for the replica or for the violation of the Rules of Procedure? You picked up a plate, that's why. Okay, that was an accident, okay. Replica esteemed colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134576	Dear counterpart Varga, the fact that medical cannabis preparations are difficult and expensive and definitely needs to be answered. As regards the indications you mentioned just before, since I have communicated with them from the president of the Croatian Pain Society, so for chronicly treated neurotic pain especially in cancer patients is and how effective preparation of medical cannabis as an edont therapy when it is not necessary to increase the dose of opioid analgesics that can have much, much more serious side effects. This rule will change power, so here is the goal of education and for the purpose of liberalising and prescribing by competent specialists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134577	Comrade Varga's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134578	Here, fellow Cellic as the new president of the Committee for the Use of Medical Cannabis for the purpose of treatment can only praise that all these steps, again I say 2 years the ministry has not met, but finally we have a new president who here we hear that, to take new steps to expand the indication, I can only praise it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134579	I thank my colleague Varg for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134580	Thank you, Vice President, my colleague Varga, in fact, about everything we're saying right now, and here I have to commend, and it's also about your law. That's what you've been working on, you're in and out of this short Ministerial work, and you've actually started it because we have a medical cannabis available in the pharmacy today or we've had it. But you yourself have said what needs to be done and what is really incomprehensible is that it didn't go right into it, which is that it really does start its own production. And the fact that we really lost for two years anyway, as much as we said now we're praising these shifts, but for two years we've lost, it really means a lot to patients. Because I don't want to get into it at all as much as I do, is it good for a person who suffers from multiplesclerosis or not if she says it's good for her.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134581	Thank you, dear colleague Alfirev. Comrade Varga's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134582	I thank you here, colleague Alfirev, you must understand during my work at the Ministry of Health it wasn't all so easy and with the profession to talk even about new knowledge and it was easy to break the question which indications would be approved, which is not, I heard the nebulous stories they said, what if an cancer patient of cancer of the bone gets hooked on drugs. When I heard that, I said, that while he might get used to it and live a life drawn to that drug, absolutely as long as he can, because if his life can be extended, and that life with a reduction of pain is for him salvation, but living life with pain in the bones that your cancer eats your bones and you have no possibility of getting rid of the pain it's a cross road that no one wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134583	I thank my esteemed colleague Varga for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, is not present. Dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134584	So here's the most debate was about cannabis or medical cannabis, the fact that at this point in Europe there is no legalized hemp for recreational purposes generally spread in certain countries is. We have heard over the past few days about the fact that Croatia would be an attractive tourist destination if the consumption of cannabis was made possible, I am not a supporter of that, and we saw the situation at Zrće last year, actually where the more liberal consumption of any illegal psychoactive substances there you get a drug scene from other countries. As far as economic boom is concerned, it would also be quite cautious, namely at this point the plant raw material is very, very available is not so expensive, Israel allowed the export of medical hemp at the beginning of this year, we know how advanced their agriculture and it is just as easy to produce hemp for medical purposes. Here I would briefly mention the fact that changes in the regulatory framework, namely 9 federal states and the discretion of the US capital, have legalized hemp for recreational purposes as well as Canada. This led to the rapid emergence of the commercial market of cannabis for recreational purposes and in fact again entered the scene of the large five tobacco industry, immediately the Altria Group bought 45% of the Kronos Group shares, there it also became interested and involved in buying shares from the hemp manufacturing company and Philip Morris, and Tilray's largest company, the value of that company that produces hemp, partly and medical hemp is $15 billion. So this is about big money, but I think that Croatia is hardly competitive with such tycoons. But on the other hand, I think that in a situation where we have been using hemp for medical purposes since 2015, it's absolutely legitimate to discuss legal frameworks where this could be possible, so here's the fact that if we could get that plant raw material of hemp, there are galenical laboratories that could extract oil from medical cannabis. In fact, according to the current law, that's not even possible. As to the indications, therefore, it is mentioned that medical cannabis does not affect the course or progression of the disease, that it is edon therapy, we could academically speak the difference between the preparation or the medicine, but it does not matter, it is important that it helps certain people and I agree with colleague Alfierev what is extremely important everywhere I agree with colleague Alfirev, what is extremely important everywhere, and so also here, it is this subjective sense of health. We when talking about official indications then must be indications based on evidence, based on clinical research and there is evidence, therefore, that it helps with the perceptions of multiple sclerosis and baclofen used to treat the shears is much more difficult than medical cannabis, so this is on the one hand the reason why certain people decide. However, also a certain number of multiple sclerosis patients do not agree to the consumption of medical cannabis because they are afraid of psychoactive activity and need to be understood again. So, besides helping out with medical cannabis, there are definitely, therefore, cancer oncology, moderate to severe pain, I have already mentioned that it is much more effective when you add medical cannabis to certain opiates, analgesics, than to raise these opiates and analgesics to the heavens. Treatment of kahexia, anorexia, HIV-positive patients and tree syndrome, acute myoclonic epilepsy. What is the problem, therefore, is that so far, the number of specialists who have prescribed medical cannabis has been very limited, we plan to organise educational symposias for both doctors and the public, inform the public in which hospitals, which specialists can prescribe because I think it is extremely important and also Professor. Vladimir Trkula, who has been the main author of the current indications for the use of hemp for medical purposes, will also revaluation these guidelines and see if there are any new indications in relation to those currently in force in the Republic of Croatia. If we take the fact that approximately 1% of adult Europeans aged 15 to 64. almost daily or daily use of cannabis, it is a large number and it should definitely be discussed. But also, the problem, therefore, of crime, more than 2/3 of the criminal acts of drug use or possession reported in the EU two years ago, so it is according to the European report on drugs, but because of the epidemiological data, the data is a little older, but that's about it. So, the primary drug use was related to cannabis, of course, that alcohol is harmful, of course tobacco is harmful and very much to be done on prevention, especially among young people involved in the use of alcohol and tobacco that also have psychoactive effects, but I would not agree, therefore, these recommendations do not recommend smoking cannabis which would have therapeutic effect because it is in some way equating the smoking of cannabis with the harmful consequences of smoking tobacco and the question is if this expansion of cannabis consumption is such as today the expansion of tobacco consumption to the extent that it would have adverse consequences. So it definitely has adverse consequences, but it also has positive effects, medicine has proven what are the positive effects and there is no reason for those who need to have the same availability as in other EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134585	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic. Replica, dear colleague Varga, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134586	Here, I thank you. I wanted to actually ask if there's any statistics since we know about through statistics run by HZJZ, it runs the statistics on the consumption of intoxicating drugs, so cannaboids from foreign young people. However, is there any statistics related to the use of medical cannabis for the purpose of treatment in the patient population, has anything recently been published in professional literature and my question is actually whether there are any side effects in the general population regarding the use of cannabis, I think that you once mentioned the cause of psychosis, etc., is this now any problem in the segment of the treatment of patients, infectious diseases, neurological diseases or malignancies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134587	Thank you. Dear colleague Cellic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134588	Well, that doesn't belong under the narcotics register. Therefore, the use of medical cannabis is not recorded with a pompidu questionnaire. As for side effects, therefore, each effective drug has certain side effects, so it is very important that these TTC and CBD ratios are at first small and is now actually one of the roles of the commission to determine which is the maximum upper limit. Therefore, it is very important to gradually introduce medical cannabis to prevent possible consequences of cannabis intoxication. As for the possibility of developing some acute psychotic disorder, I think it would be very rare, but it's still about those who abuse cannabis, who take it in much larger quantities, where you don't even know what concentration it is, so these psychotic attacks wouldn't be so common. This would be more about, say, some kind of nausea, vomiting, therefore, a neurovegetative system that can be excitated and caused by certain A side effect in humans. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134589	...respected colleague Cellic at the answer. Next debate, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134590	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, not to repeat myself about the amendment proposal itself and the addition of the law that, of course, we support and we think it's absolutely going in the right direction. I'd just like to supplement my art exposure here. Article 3...................................................................................................... The 2nd law where you'd be behind the wheel. 18. added a new wheel. 19. Therefore, the unique notification information system is a catalogue of the notification, the availability and occurrence of psychoactive substances within the early warning system by which citizens can directly or indirectly relate to existing applications, report potentially illegal substances or incorrect declarations to, I say again potentially illegal products that have been obtained legally or illegally again and have the possibility, and that is now perhaps the most important, search of the database of existing illegal products and substances. We witness daily the numerous events harmful to health by acute poisoning, deaths if we remember the case in the City of Zagreb in 2015, precisely due to the increasing availability of synthetic drugs in free sales in shops or on websites. And just along with those incomplete and false declarations, it's a legal sale... substances synthesized with the aim of behavioural effects with classical... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and these are mostly like plant mixes, different air fresheners, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, of course, because of the rate of production and expansion on the market, we need a tip system, a preventive one, one that would say in English,... So, first tip, first thing when you meet, does the doctor, does anyone else, who finds that he is as effective as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The existing application for or existing possibility of an application notification system is therefore not on the Ministry's portal and I was right when I said it, but within the application, where a picture of something is sent, whether it's like a traffic violation or anything else, I don't think it's enough, because it also shows us statistics. First people don't know it, secondly, they don't exactly report to the police for something suspicious so they don't knock on their door, so that their own child might not be in some kind of trouble, no one can be blamed for it. Therefore, this system should be registered, as already stated in the sense of the system already in place by this early warning law, through the Croatian Institute of Public Health. Where they would unite all data, all possibilities, from state inspectors, police, different homes of health, hospitals, different agencies of all those involved, that this can be searched by declaration, by name, and even by pictures of existing people, citizens, who have some unrest, who encounter it with their children or any other way, can see if it is already included. Of course, and then report the same thing. If there isn't, or if they want to, without any too much danger of reporting anything to the police, so now they've made a report of a certain crime or whatever it means. So the system would structure these data, geographically stack and they could really be easily made available. It's actually one when I say, a unique system, where we unite everything and today we don't have it. Today I can't type on the Internet and go see which of these are preparations, unless I'm going, I'm not asking as if I want to buy something to use, and that's for sure by the legislator, or, the repressive apparatus can recognize it as an attempt to obtain illegal substances. That's why this has to be legally defined. Of course, I leave it to the minister, to regulate the rules, and that in that way, at a certain time, it is really done, all with the very purpose of this prevention and early reporting. The second part is tied to the article. 10th Law, i.e. Art. 8th Amendment, which speaks, that the purchase of macaque, which is intended for the manufacture of drugs, can be carried out by legal persons, who have the approval of the Ministry... Here I'd like to say by amendment, just add one word, a collection of scissors and hemp and everything else... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, by inserting the word hemp into art. Article 10(1) would allow the purchase and import of hemp raw materials, i.e. hemp preparations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imports of hemp into the above-quoted provisions would be fully possible, especially if we take the provisions of Article 22 of the Law, which allows the import of parts of the plant from which drugs are made. In fact, we can now introduce mac and opium, and much harder sedatives, much harder drugs than we can get out of hemp. Well, I don't see any reason why we shouldn't make it possible for a hemp. So it's not production, it's not legalisation of marijuana, we've already consumed it in amendments, which have been announced, probably already handed over by other MPs. This is something else that applies to the pharmaceutical industry and everything with a goal, that we can already buy you out of imports only today. So this enables some of our companies that are involved in drug production to produce it themselves, and I think we have certainly the best experts and companies that are not any of them recently and already some of them are leaders, in this at least part of Europe, as regards pharmacology and drug-making. So this particular 2 amendments will be submitted, hopefully in order to find a common language, certainly all in order to facilitate and make life easier for our citizens, but also to prevent when we talk about the addiction of unwanted cases, because I think that if we save that system and one life, that it has already paid for itself. So he was worth it. And let alone I believe that it will certainly be, and it can be easily checked by visits and sites and apps itself that will certainly be searched, because every mother, every father for her child, if she comes across something and sees something like that, she will at least know, through a system of reforming that is also necessary as part of all of that, where it goes so as not to report to the police, to check whether it really is such a thing and to form what it can be rather than googling on the Internet and maybe get some semi-information, which can only be worse. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134591	I thank my colleagues Curaju. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134592	Thanks to the well-respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, few of us, I wondered whether at all to discuss, more or less everything was said, but here, since here's almost all of my professional life and dealing with addiction diseases and my degree was out of addiction, later I lectured on addiction disease, I mentored 5-6 works out of addiction disease, so I feel kind of a duty, to say a few sentences, since it's a law that needs to prevent drug abuse. Today we have debated in 3 areas around this law and the most words were about medical hemp, where it is a pity that no step has been made and that this law has not been regulated and that part that would allow the problems that currently exist to be solved. Therefore, practically medical hemp is inaccessible, and which was available the price was too high, while these preparations did not satisfy patients, so it is no wonder that their deadline, i.e. the part did not have a good quality, was withdrawn from sales. Whoever did this is responsible for me, it's Minister Kujundzic's fault, so without any.../incomprehensible... without any neglect. And I believe that she'll agree with me and everyone in HDZ just won't admit it. So, for 2 years, this law was to come to the assembly, in the meantime there was also a proposal from the SDP Club and Dr. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Why is it the minister's fault? Because the medical hemp committee hasn't met in two years. And now it's dr. I will want all this to speed up and that, as soon as possible, we will get changes and additions to this law that will allow medical hemp to be available in Croatia in a better way than it is now. We've got models, let's take, here's some commission headed by Dr. The cell and delegation of the ministry go to Israel, go to the Netherlands, go to Canada and make the most quality model for Croatia based on these three models and we will solve this issue. The second part of our debate was about a part of the law that is, in fact, the most important at the moment, which is the quality of solving new psychoactive substances that are available in Croatia. According to studies, most often from 15-year-olds, we remember last year 7 severe poisonings in Osijek, before that one fatal outcome in Zagreb, so that part is really important and I hope it will contribute to a more successful fight against new psychoactive substances. When we talk about this topic, we can't say that in Croatia unfortunately, young people's habits are not good, there are numerous studies that show this, and here I will mention one that is not directly related to drug abuse, but is about the initiative, the European initiative to monitor the thickness of children, where in Croatia between 8 and 9 years of age, 35% of children are too difficult, according to statistics among the first 5 European countries, and we are also in the EU between the first 5 and 5, respectively, after drinking alcoholic beverages in young people. At the same time, only 9.7% of children spend less than 1 hour a day playing in the open, and when you ask them if they are out on an open weekend, you'll be surprised at it even less, so only 1.5% is played on the weekends in the open. One of the most famous research conducted every 5 years this year will be again in Croatia, so every 2015 was the last time that research on the abuse of addiction funds, and by this we are lying, we are all above the European average. So by smoking cigarettes where 38% of the students never smoked, while 62% smoked cigarettes. According to the ESPAD survey in Croatia, there are 5 places in the prevalence of drinking 5 and more alcoholic beverages in one occasion in the last 30 days, which is as much as 47%. More than 3/4 subjects 78% indicate that alcohol is easily or very easily available to them. So instead of big debates on marijuana, I think it would be better to find a way to prevent young people from buying alcohol so easily and then getting drunk afterwards. As far as illegal drugs are concerned, Croatia is also above the European average, as 22% of students said that at least once in their lives they tried drugs. According to our students, the most common drug they consume is cannabis. 16% of European students say they tried cannabis at least once in their lives while in Croatia the percentage is 21. As for the perception of the availability of cannabis compared to other drugs, it is very high, 3 out of 10 students consider it very easy to obtain practically within 2 hours. 42% of students say they can also get it very easily and far easier than ecstasy, cocaine, amphetamines or other means. Therefore, if we want to think about the health of our young people who have been the subject of these studies, then we need to be concerned and then we need to do whatever is necessary to reduce the ability of any contact with any means of addiction, as well as with cannabis. Therefore, the health of Croatian adolescents will be much better if we reduce the availability of alcohol, cigarettes of all drugs including cannabis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134593	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Next debate, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134594	I thank the esteemed vice president, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, about 20 years or 19 years ago, in fact the youngest, excuse me, at that point seems to me the youngest parliamentary representative has proposed decriminalizing light drugs or to be precise decriminalization of the possession of light drugs. So, he suggested that something still be punished, but not to be punished, but to be held accountable. It was quite this welcome back then to the knife and to the mockery. A few years later, the provision entered the Penal Code, or expelled from the Penal Code, and the Constitutional Court abolished that novel because it had not received enough votes in the assembly, was passed by an ordinary majority rather than an absolute majority. A few years later, however, it was put into law. Today we are discussing some progress that this law is making, and in a political scene can be heard I would say almost a consensus debate on that this story with medical hemp needs even more, and I think it's the right thing to liberalise, and voices are heard about how to simplify the story of legalizing marijuana. So that ownership is no longer a violation and that it is legal. Now, there are various modifications and different details about what this specifically means and how it should be arranged, and there are discussions about how it would bring economic growth, so that it would have a good effect on our tourism, that it would bring certain benefits, and that it would normally do no harm to anyone, now whether it would hurt anyone or not, it would be a primary question for doctors to tell us something about it, counterpart Jovanovic told us about it. However, and tobacco such as cigarettes also harm health, they are legal in the Republic of Croatia although tobacco production is not completely liberal, so you can only produce tobacco if you have a contract with someone who buys it, you cannot now remember in your garden and plant tobacco. As for alcohol, it also harms, however, it carries much more problems and is much more of a monster than I think, but in my opinion, but I allow that I am wrong, it would be with the legalization of marijuana, and what's also interesting, it seems to me the only situation where politicians don't want to say that they broke the law, so many of them have been able to boast that they once consumed marijuana or that they smoked pot, I have to say that I'm not one and I don't miss them at all, so there's no problem with it at all, I haven't had any alcohol, it might be a little weird, and I don't smoke, so as far as that goes, I'm not in any conflict of interest, but I am so that I am able to allow those who want to do it in a certain way, and possibly not drink through increased taxes, excises etc. However, I remember the debate while I was a member of the government about the fact that everything we collect from tobacco excises is normally spent in a health care system on the treatment of tobacco-induced diseases. It's probably a bit less of a bad alcohol situation, even though there are some problems. So, legalizing it would create a few, make a few good things. First, dealers would disappear from our streets because it could be bought legally. Secondly, the police could deal with those who need a little more marijuana dealers, I apologize that there would be no, secondly, the police could deal with these slightly harder drugs, so maybe you'd have more success in that because you'd have less to do. A certain restriction on consumption could be prescribed, as we have for sale in particular. And finally, it is the right of the state to determine what will be prohibited on its territory, and which is not, the most life-like example for, at least for those who love clams are fingers, in BiH are legal, in the Republic of Croatia, and I do not believe that there is anything less destroying the coast there than here, so probably there are countries where it is legal, whether at some point the Republic will join them, it is the matter of our political decision, and then when such a political decision is taken, then the issue of regulation is how it will be used and allow citizens, to be denied, is now another issue. So, as far as the so-called. Medical hemps, that is, as counterpart Varga said in the cannabis grown in the laboratory and used for medical purposes, we will propose an amendment that would regulate this already in this law, and if we get signals from the government, and we are likely to get them that it will not be accepted, it may be considered that the conclusion obliges the Government either to propose a provision or to consider how this can be further liberalised. This story of pardon by the President of the Republic of Croatia has certain dilemmas for me, not in the sense of whether or not Mr. Luketić should have been pardoned, because it is obvious that most of the public thinks that it was necessary and I did not want to mention it before I had any way of affecting the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia, but I personally do not have any clarity. So someone filed a criminal complaint, and then someone wrote the indictment, and then someone passed the verdict in the first degree, and then someone passed the verdict in the second degree, so it wasn't what let's just condemn him, so it was a process according to the laws that this HS passed. So, as it is possible for so many people of the legal profession to be involved and that no provision can be applied that would in that case be released, and now if I understand correctly, Mr Luksetić is pardoned, and the one who helped him in the criminal offence of the second accused remains the punishment. So someone who tried himself, therefore, to alleviate the consequences of pain was freed, which is either okay or pardoned, was not released, and the one who went to help him, therefore, even more showed a certain kind of humanity, went to help the person who was sick, he was still convicted, so he must seem 10 months or as much, in prison. So there's so much absurd about it when the state prescribes that something is forbidden. So we could have read recently, long ago, but not before 20 years ago. that someone is going for a year unconditionally because they set the joint on fire although I think it's a slightly adjusted version for the public, however, it is obvious, therefore, if there is no social value that is protected by the prohibition of that kind of plant or if it is so fluid that even those who should be the guardians of the law, which are politicians, are not getting rid of the word, and we once set the joint on fire, then obviously there's something wrong with it. So those of you who should be a role model don't have any trouble saying ha, and we've broken the law, and they're sending a message. Come on, kids, then you're breaking the law. So, easy for a joint, but the message of breaking the law isn't good, it's not good in any case, it can happen to anyone, it's become popular now, it can't happen to everyone, but it doesn't matter, so this can't happen, this can only happen if, before that, they put you to sleep so, therefore, this is consciously, consciously something that's done. I hope that all those arguments that go into this area will be significantly liberalised, that they will be considered and that, in that sense, the Government and the Laws would not be the first country in the world to do so, and I certainly hope that we will not remain the last country in the world in which it will still be banned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134595	I thank my colleague, Bauku. Replica, dear colleague Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134596	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, you only mentioned Mr Luksetic and his process, yes, he was sentenced by power on the basis of obvious evidence or the basis of existing legislation. And just to avoid that possibility, namely, he was condemned to own 15 kilos of marijuana with the intention of selling illegal, and more for growing 11 stems, if I had been well-read. So, just to remove any suspicion, whether someone is doing it to obtain illegal, illegal profits, profits, or to make their own needs, an important thing to legalize, because man is obviously a user for medical purposes, who himself because of his property status decided to grow. Now, which is the amount, if they had less, they probably wouldn't have been convicted, but if, in what way it was treated, we can't know exactly, so we need to clearly define it and separate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134597	Thank you. My colleague Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134598	I only troubled the fact that so many state institutions were involved, so the civil servants, they're cops, then the judicial officials, they're from the State's Attorney's Office, other judicial officials, judges, the Council, first council, secondly, they've passed some verdicts based on the applicable law, and then before at all, then it's completely illogical to me. Are there any other cases like this? So this isn't the only case, or is this the only one the public reacted to? So, it's, it's getting dangerous, because then probably there are still laws that are so illogical that the president of the state should base his extraordinary powers, intervene. No one has asked the question, therefore, so many state institutions have been involved, including this House which has adopted such a law on the basis of which someone has been convicted, so it would be a turn to analyse and to amend it, and to apply it if it should be retroactively, if that is so much constitutional value. It is, the same constitution allows.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134599	I thank my colleague, Bauk. And cheers I'm closing the debate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr Tomislav Dulibic, for the explanation of the final proposal for the Law. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, now as planned, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z. Number 598. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134600	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Vice President. I just wanted to inform you that in this case, the parent committee has not yet adopted an opinion because it is unclear to the Rules of Procedure which is the parent committee, and I, as chairman of the Committee on Labour, the pension system, alone, or tomorrow morning, will refer the request to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure to make it clear to us that the interpretation which is the parent committee and that is why there has been no sitting. I just wanted to say that so it wouldn't have turned out if it hadn't been for work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134601	Thank you, colleague Maras. Thank you for helping me do my job, and that's what I wanted to say below, but here's what you said, the competent parent body has not discussed the bill yet, so we'll discuss this point when the conditions come to pass. This would end with all the scheduled agenda points for today, tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Railways, second reading, P.Z. 555, 09:30 in the morning. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the evening. The session was interrupted in 20.19 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134602	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse. The debate is closed. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Labour Party's Representatives' Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, Ines Strenja's representative, SDP's club, Stjepan Curaj's representative and representative Ivan Kelič. Let's take it in a row. Mr. Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, is with us. We're going after the amendments. 1st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134603	The amendment is not accepted. It is not accepted for the reason that no single definition of medical hemp has been formally adopted at EU level, so we do not consider it necessary to further define medical hemp, since by defining industrial hemp all other varieties of hemp, all of thc content can be used for medical purposes. So we have this large number of amendments. It's more or less about saying it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134604	Since the amendment is not accepted and I don't see any of the proposings here, correct me if I'm wrong, this time I'm not mistaken, so we'll vote on that amendment. 2nd Amendment of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134605	Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134606	There's no one from the SDP. If someone hasn't moved in the meantime, then we'll vote on the amendment. Representative Stephen Curaj. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134607	The amendment is not accepted. Amendment No. 3 because there is already a mobile application of the MUP through which citizens can report suspected or potentially illegal substances. Representative Curaj had one good idea with the application and we will make one mobile application at the level of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, but it is not necessary to define it further in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134608	Thank you very much. Mr. Stjepan Curaj is not present and we will vote on the amendment. - Mrs. Crescent. Ines Strenja, amendment to Art. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134609	The amendment is not accepted. For the same reason as the previous two amendments. So because of the definition of medical hemp, we have a different definition we accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134610	Thank you very much. You want to make yourself manifest, Mrs. Strenja?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134611	Thank you, yes. Thank you. Therefore, MOST of Independent Lists has proposed amendments to the sequence of events in Croatia in connection with the inaccessibility of medical marijuana needed by patients in order to ease their problems. So we have legalized use for medical purposes, we now allow industrial hemp to be produced, but because we in Croatia do not produce medical hemp, we come into a situation that is too high in prices and it becomes inaccessible to patients. The price is such that in the end people are forced to grow even in their homes, in their gardens, which is still illegal. Therefore, the MOST of Independent Lists felt that this should be regulated and these laws are now personal to me, it is not important that you did not accept my amendment because the same amendment was submitted by the HDZ and its amendment was accepted. So I have my amendment, I will not withdraw it, but I will also vote in favour of the amendment given by HDZ, which is that for the first time in Croatia we allow legal entities to grow medical hemp to make it available to our citizens. As you know, medical hemp is used to relieve anxiety, citizens need to know that it will not cure the disease, but certainly certain patients can help to make it easier for them to have their problems, especially in palitative care, that period before the very end of life, which is inevitable because of the severe illness. I ask you to vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134612	All right, they'll vote on the amendment. Advocacy of Ines Strenja, in art. Seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134613	The amendment is not accepted, Amendment number 5 is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the conclusion of the amendment of MP Ivan Celic in the amended form. I say again, there was a clearer legal statement, so we accepted it for that reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134614	Mrs. Strenja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134615	Thank you. So, the Bridge has proposed to amend the Article. 7 and that the existing items 1 and 2 are added to the items, that medical hemp farming is carried out for medical purposes in accordance with the Regulation, which shall be adopted by the Minister responsible for Health and that the notification of the manufacturer and the cadastrian particle, on which medical hemp will be kept, for medical purposes, shall be delivered to the Minister of Health responsible for Home Affairs. We felt that we needed to organise good, legal, or good regulation, the cultivation of medical hemp, because it should be in accordance with a special regulation, which the minister responsible for health has brought. We also suggested that the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the manufacturer's notice and the cadastrian particle should be obtained and listed on the same product. As I said, in Croatia we have permission to use marijuana for medical purposes to relieve problems. In Croatia we now have, with this law as you have moved, enabling, growing industrial hemp. We have not been able to make it possible so far, and I have therefore proposed an amendment that medical hemp can also be grown in Croatia, and that is necessary, in order to make the price available, more acceptable, for our patients who need it. What we haven't regulated yet, which is to extend to patients who need it, to prescribe medical hemp, now it's only to certain specialists, but for example it's not to anaesthesiologists, who specifically run pain clinics. It is not possible for doctors of family medicine, who can greatly assess the patient’s problems with medical marijuana. I ask you to vote on this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134616	Thank you. Now we're going to amend number six of Stjepan Curaj's MPs to art. 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134617	The amendment is not accepted, for reasons, because the issue of buying hemp will be resolved by a regulation, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which accepted the amendment of Agent Ivan Celic in changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134618	He doesn't have a proposal, so we'll vote on the amendment. Amendment number 7. A club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134619	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134620	You want to be obvious? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134621	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So we at the club will withdraw this amendment, and the reason is that our colleague Celic actually prescribed the amendment this time and if it was the only reason and the only way to get this amendment into this law, we are pleased with it because we have put patients in focus.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134622	Are you asking for a vote? And he's pulling, okay. The next amendment is Amendment 8. SDP representative's club on Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134623	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134624	There's no one from the promoter. They'll vote on the amendment. We move on to Amendment 9 of MP Ivan Celic, also referring to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134625	The amendment shall be adopted in the amended form, in a way that, in Article 9 amending Article 13(5), paragraphs 6-12 which reads, hemps can be grown and produced for medical purposes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The authorisation for the production of hemp referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article shall be granted by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices on the basis of a request from a legal person who has a production licence for the manufacture of the medicinal product or the active substance in accordance with the Medicinal Products Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No appeal shall be granted against the solution referred to in paragraph 10 of this Article, but an administrative dispute may be initiated. The arrangements and criteria for granting the authorisation referred to in paragraphs 7 and 9 of this Article, with the agreement of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Home Affairs, shall be laid down by the Regulation by the Minister responsible for Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134626	It's reshaping, so if I understand correctly, yes, well, Mr. Celic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As counterpart Comparić Devcic said, therefore, this amendment was tabled at the very end of the debate. We discussed this together, and it is seen, therefore, that Mosta, a colleague of Strenja and individual representatives of the SDP, and particularly representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Club. What is most important, therefore, is that hemp farming and production are allowed for medical purposes. The concept of medical hemp has not yet been legally defined and this is yet to be defined by the European Commission as seen in the European Parliament resolution, since 16.1.2019. With these significant changes, I thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by Andrej Plenkovic, for accepting this amendment and of course the Minister of Health. What's most important is that we'll be allowed to grow and produce hemp for medical purposes. Thus, this medical cannabis preparation will be more accessible and significantly cheaper for persons in the Republic of Croatia who, according to medical indications, can use hemp for medical purposes. Thank you, I accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134628	Okay, so it becomes an integral part of the law we're going to vote on. And finally, the Legislative Committee on the article, please. I'm sorry, you're right. Advocacy of the Focus on Article 1, 11 forgive me. It's Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134629	Amendment 10 is not accepted, no amendments are accepted because drug trafficking is already regulated by Articles 20 to 27 of the applicable law while Article 17 refers to drug possession by legal and natural persons performing the activities of teaching and professional education, analysis and training of animals for the detection of drugs, official persons of the MUP and an organisation carrying out toxicological analytical activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134630	Mrs. Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134631	The MOST of Independent Lists wanted us to have regulation in this legislative proposal to grow medical hemp for, within legal persons in order to become available to the citizens who need it in Croatia. This article and the proposal meant that its amendments were to regulate this traffic in order to ensure that those legal persons who cultivate it should be authorised by the competent ministry in order to prevent possible abuses. So, at this point in Croatia, medical hemp is inaccessible to our citizens, we have had opportunities to see that even what is binding, has passed the deadline and could not be used because of the high price. Citizens suffering from malignancies, citizens suffering from multiplesclerosis, citizens need such a medicine to ease their problems, but unfortunately it was not regulated. A whole series of my amendments you have refused, but I am not too concerned about it, you have rejected everything from the opposition, even from some ruling and accepted the proposal by HDZ, but we are all in the same position that it is necessary to grow medical hemp in Croatia to help patients at a more affordable price. What you did not regulate is that you can make a wider circle of doctors prescribe this, and what you are not, most importantly, is that you did not allow those who need it to be free of charge, because it should be free for all those who suffer from malignant diseases and who are actually a drug instead of taking high doses of opiate and sedatives to reduce their pain. So, I think that this law should much better regulate what patients need, and not just say they will be able to grow within some medical pharmaceutical institutions and things like that. I ask you to vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134632	All right, they'll vote. Finally, the last amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 36, Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134633	The amendment is not accepted for reasons because the government of the Republic of Croatia has resolved the issue by its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134634	So the amendment is not accepted. There is no one here to vote on this amendment to the Legislative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134635	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on drug abuse, second reading, P.Z. No. 495. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article. 199. Rules of Procedure. The amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 101 FOR and 2 abstentions we have decided to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like a representative of the representative of the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Tomislav Dulibic, to explain the amendments submitted. There are two amendments, you can explain them all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134636	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First Amendment, Regulation of Art. The 33rd century of the 12th century, which was eliminated. The 9th law, the health minister with the agreement of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Home Affairs, will bring within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. By accepting the amendment of Ivan Celic, an MP in HS, has been amended. Nine. The final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the control of drug abuse, which is amended by the Article. 13. The law on the prevention of drug abuse and, therefore, this amendment aligns the transitional provisions of this law in such a way as to determine a period of 6 months for the adoption of implementing rules, and the second amendment, Art. The 36th is changed and said, this law takes effect on the eighth day of the day of its publication in the National Journal. Namely, art. 36. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse was laid down for the entry into force of this Act on the eighth day of publication in the National Journal, with the exception of Art. 22. in the section relating to the sanitary, agricultural and veterinary inspectors of the State Inspectorate, which were to enter into force on 1 April 2019. However, the said final provision should be amended given that the procedure for the adoption of this law is still under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134637	I'm opening a debate if no one answers and closes the debate, so I'm voting on the first amendment of the government. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes 81 FOR, 5 abstentions and 3 votes against, are accepted by the first amendment of the government, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am now voting on the second amendment of the government. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 88 FOR and 1 abstentions have been adopted by the second amendment of the Government, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We now move to a decision on the other amendments tabled by the Committee on Legislatives, the Labour Party's Club of Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, Ines Strenja, SDP Representatives' Club, Stjepan Curaj and Agent Ivan Ćelic. The review of the amendments has been submitted by electronic means, and the amendment statement has been carried out earlier in the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. We're going in a row, so the first club is the Labour Party's representatives and solidarity and independent representatives, the government doesn't accept, so we have to vote. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 2nd amendment is SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 3 Representatives of Stjepan Curaj You can't explain, you can just say what you want. [[Intruder Curaj: Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134638	Can't I say "honored"? Okay. Then I accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-20-0.u134639	So we won't even vote the amendment, he's been withdrawn. We're going to the Fourth Amendment of Agent Ines Strenja, the government won't accept it, so we'll vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5 Representatives of Ines Strenja, the government does not accept, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 6 Representatives of Stjepan Curaj, the Government does not accept him, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 7 Clubs of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives have been withdrawn. Amendment No. 8 SDP representatives' clubs, the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Well, then let's go to Amendment No. 9 MPs Ivan Celic, he was accepted in a changed form and the applicant accepted it and in this form became an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 10 Ines Strenja MPs, the government does not accept and we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the last amendment of the Committee on Legislatives is not accepted by the Government, and we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now let's vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the drug abuse law, please vote. I find that with 101 votes and 1 abstentions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse has been passed. That's right. There he is. Let's go to the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Railways, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 555; the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Art. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. I would ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is respected Tomislav Mihotić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go, Secretary of State.
