ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167215	Dear colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We start with the agenda point: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 757.../
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167216	.../Intruder Ivan Pernar: The Honorable Chairman of the 600 Workers of Đura Djakovic has not received salary since September and are currently very bitter, the state does nothing to help them./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167217	Dear colleague Pernar, I'd like you to sit down nicely because I haven't given you my word, you may ask for it. You can ask for a word later when... [[Intruder Ivan Pernar: Dear Representative Brkić...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167218	.../Intruder Ivan Pernar: Workers can't wait any longer, they've waited long enough. I know it doesn't matter to you and that's not the topic of the agenda, but I believe that the Croatian Parliament should serve Croatian citizens and of course HDZ should return the 24 million kuna....
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167219	On the basis of Article 239, I give you a reminder and I ask you to sit in your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167220	Dear fellow Pernar [[/Attack Ivan Pernar: The Honorable Chairman of 600 workers and 700 workers of Đura Djakovic's group have not received any salary since September, starting today they started a strike. Until I get a firm guarantee that their salary will sit...]] [[Intruder Ivan Pernar:... i.e. that they will be paid for their work I will not stop speaking.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167221	Based on Article 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words and asking you to sit down nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167222	... [[Intruder Ivan Pernar: Speaker not included.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167223	Based on the article, my colleague Pernar, on the basis of Article 241 I give you a notice from the session and set a break of up to 9 hours and 45 minutes. It's 9:00.33. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Dear colleague Ranko Ostojic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167225	Your Honor, Vice President. Article 241 has been injured, namely the need to explain the tensile measure, whether it refers to one point, a whole day or a double period of time? Well, I guess it's the easiest measure, and that's just for one point. I would also like to take this opportunity once again, since 2003 in the archives of the Croatian Parliament Presidency is the Proposal for a Law on Assembly Guard, the application of the means of coercion must be defined by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167226	I thank my colleague Ostojić. You're right, so if I didn't point out that it wasn't for two days then it's for one day. And as far as this proposal is concerned, we'll see what procedure it's in right now. We move to the agenda point: - Final bill on amendments to the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament include the first and second reading, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. I would like the representative of the motion of the Secretary of State, Mr Tomislav Mihotic, to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal for the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167227	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. The existing Roads Act shall regulate the role of the Office of State Administration in the county as the bodies of the State Administration System in the application of the Roads Act in the following procedures: - in the process of issuing a local permit for the construction and reconstruction of county and local roads and buildings referred to in paragraph 4. The law, the special conditions of issuing the competent office of the state administration in the county, - when a legal person who manages a public road or concessionary wishes to take possession of the property before the power of the clearance solution is applied for by way of a state administration’s competent office in the county, - when ZUC intends to set up traffic signs, signalling and equipment, as well as tourist and other signalling on the public road on the basis of a traffic embossed basis, the prior consent of the Office of State Administration in the county is required, - the Office of State Administration in the County shall adopt a decision to enter into the property pursuant to Article 107. The law. The adoption of this Law amending the Road Act complies with the standards of the law in question with the Law on the System of State Administration of NN No. In order to establish a single legal system of the Republic of Croatia, 66/19 is entrusted to the competent administrative authorities of the county or the City of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167228	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167229	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary. In the e-Consultation of the HT proposal, an argument was rejected and this was published in accordance with the law. Following the completion of the procedure of the rejected HT proposal, an addendum was published in the e- Consultation report which reads: "After further arguments of the HT demand d.d. and with the consultation of HACOM, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure has nevertheless adopted that request." Why have you adopted this request outside of the e- Consultation in Article 86 as well as paragraph 5. The question of whether the Roads Act entered Article 86 and as an item of the 5th HT proposal from the consultation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167230	Thank you. State Secretary Mihotic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167231	That HT remark is not subject to this amendment to the law. So here's just compliance with the State Administration System Act. And all of this is the subject of amending and supplementing the Law that will later come to the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167232	Thank you. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167233	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, you've partially responded to me now. In public consultation they were far bigger and wider additions to the law, and we have now received this proposal. It will obviously go into procedures and those amendments and additions to the laws that were in public consultation before. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167234	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, independent lists of respected colleagues, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167235	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Roads, as the secretary says, this is just harmonising with the transfer of powers to the county in the case of the Roads Act. However, the fact is that this much power for the county to transfer in this case to the county when we see that they haven't even solved those obligations they had regarding health care, education, irrigation, waste management, you're now transferring this part of it to them because the county is the fact that they don't need a tool in the hands of those who rule. They simply allow them to better control the processes within the county is a fact and I must say once again that only in the case of outside of this law what the county is doing are they only those who accept decentralised money and share it with those who are obedient mayors, the mayors so that simply those people who manage local self-government must be obedient and the counties are meaning to themselves, and we strengthen them. We of these small formations of the Pharaohs who have their own even crowns, they are, where they are fighting for the throne, giving them this law and power now, while we have applied 60, 70 laws, which we have given to the offices of the state administration now also to the counties, we have increased them 200 new powers, and the counties are essentially brakes of development, I can testify to that as far as the Split-Dalmatia County is concerned. Since when is the County of Split-Dalmatia? Since '93. In the year, the Dalmatian Zagora and, of course, Sibenik-Kninska, which wava partly of the Dalmatian Zagora evicted 100,000 people. Not a single key problem that is relevant to the people of Dalmatia's Zagora is solved, from education where we have schools empty to health services that have never been worse. So the greater damage has been done by the counties so far in terms of governance in these areas than all the occupiers have done so far. I can argue that because it is evident that during the time of the Turks all who have passed there were more inhabitants in those areas. Management of certain things that, with certain resources that we have in these areas is visible, and this law gives another authority to the county, strengthen the counties that simply decentralised money, I have told those they wish to share. I'll say the examples, in the election campaigns when it was for the county when I went through Imotski with, went through Imotski during the campaign, in the campaign literally they're looking for where they're going to pave, they're asking their grandmothers to pave the way to the cubes, to the cubes where they keep the chickens, literally so asphalt that they don't have chickens where they're buried from the asphalt. And if you took out a sample of certain municipalities where in power it's the same as in the county and the municipalities, if you took out the sample exactly you'd see the asphalt, you'd see exactly the election cycles, when the locals are a little thicker, when the parliamentary ones are even a little thicker, when the president's little thinner, so we're giving powers to those who don't manage well with money decentralised. The right decentralisation would be to give authority to local self-government and local self-government management, and so money would come to a prairie, to forgotten municipalities where we have 100 municipalities, surpluses as well as county and I don't think this is a good way to go. Believe me, it's not a good way to go. Because it's not enough just pre-election asphalting roads, we're trying to solve a number of problems here that I've just said, it's the right of service, that teleoperators pay us, I gave it through a proposal of a law on telecommunications that they didn't accept, now they'll try to push it through Croatian roads, but much cheaper and under the terms of Croatian telecoms as one of the monopolies. In Croatia alone, then, the right of service is not paid by teleopers in Croatia. These are huge damages, these are billions for local self-government that could have been invested in education, in health care in these areas. This law is neither serious nor transparent, nor transparent, because all the money that comes to the county is exclusively for pre-election purposes only for the purpose of receiving its personnel. Because when I compare this law to the amendments to the Croatian Law on Roads and when I see waste management, we will now compare the problem where Vrgorec people are damaged I think 120 km will have to transport garbage to Sinj, of course we will not allow it, where 3 times will collect these people's transportation of waste, in the same way, means a dump with the same sanitary conditions. And since 2005, in 2009, Sanader County has been, a parliamentary representative, said that in 2011, Lečevica will be open to this harmful project in Dalmatia, which is ecologically and economically harmful because it is at risk of drinking water in the karst area. It said it would be 2011, 30 million kuna is the county of its own funds so-called. It's not their own resources, I don't know what they're coming from, the day today I'm here and you secretaries can go upstairs now you're from up there we can go to Lečevica and the mushroom brother. And it's a harmful project called Lečevica, it's not a smart waste management to do another Mariščina, we see what the problem is in the heart of the Dalmatian Burn, where the drinking water is. So we're simply playing fire, the county's a huge problem, they're brakes of developing local self-government mostly peripheral areas. Here we see a number of promises, here is a year and a half from the meeting of the Government in Split where a promise is made, let's say, a quick road to connect the Dicma – Kukuzovac – Križice i.e. that the Cetina province will be repeated again, which is larger than Split-Dalmatia, which is larger than Međimurje County on the surface, and more is Cetinska krajina by the number of residents than Ličko-Senj County, whether there is a shift, there is no. Mayor Boban said if those verticals weren't resolved, he'd protest, tent, and throw in front of the parliament, in front of the government. He didn't do it, he didn't do it, he'll do it again for pre-election purposes, he'll open that road that I've already opened, there'll be that lamb that's left, but there's plenty left, there'll be lambicide before the elections, people will try again to buy lambs, to eat peppers and pigs, to salt them a little bit, and the people will buy it. Not anymore. They won't anymore because the result of such a policy is that we have about $15.6 billion in the budget for foreign transfers, you know what that means, that our people have moved out and that today they're sending a currency of 15.7 billion to Croatia. This is the policy that Joseph Broz Tito used to implement in those parts only that you still need to organize trains, then he organized trains to get people out, to get the money back, that's the '60s policy. And then you brag about the balance sheets and our territory is empty. Or you're charging this teleoperate di right of service. Where in Croatia the biggest profits are made by teleoperators who use our roads, our roads and do not pay for the right of service, and that is why it boasts, so they have 40% margin, 42% margin HT, while in Europe, in the EU, and in Europe the average is somewhere between 18% and 20%, they do not behave in countries where they come from. Now imagine that this money, that it is normally regulated legislation, that it does not suit itself, that it does not govern, that it has a prime minister of courage, but it is not because it has to be in good relations with Angel Merkel has the courage to say that, you will act the same way as you behave, not this populism, you will act the same way in countries where you teleoperators come from because you cannot have in Croatia, the poorer country, it is much richer Germany, better conditions, you have the biggest profit, the biggest margin in the Republic, and you will pay the right of service. I've put forward a proposal for the Telecommunications Act, to pay for the right of service, but then there's great damage if it's done here by a colleague upstairs in a good neighborhood, so imagine you who are the damage and they have 40% gain, which don't pay for the right of service. That's what our parents paid for, and you older ones who made self - contributions back then. You paid for the infrastructure passing across the road, you paid for it, our parents. And the infrastructure, and ultimately, it's what you paid for, across our roads and roads, and now they have a profit from it and it's their property and yet you see they're not going to pay for the right of service. I gave this law, remember, was not unfortunately accepted, that they paid the right to serve you local self-government leaders and that the exact amount not to hacom decides, 5 of them how much that amount will be, and until recently in the same building were HT and HACOM, not long ago. Of course we need the market, that we need to be correct but I'm just looking correctly at everything, but I'm just asking that they be the same conditions for teleoperators when setting up their facilities, any base station, any infrastructure of any kind, to be the same conditions as in Germany, as in Sweden where other teleopers come from. To be the same terms. We bring here a law where we only strengthen in essence, here in my Split-Dalmatia County, the coat of arms itself has a crown as if they were king's mayors. The local self-government leaders if they're not good with the mayor, they won't win the kuna. Here's a fact and it's very difficult to be in an opposition or independent or opposition party and to be mayor. Is that correct? Is that the county? Are those roads? Is this an amendment to the Law of Roads and we now lower our powers to the county instead of passing one act, one act. Here's Mayor Sanader, he promised 2009 that the waste management centre would be a nice environment, as it is called, that 2011 would be finished, that the first bag would be delayed in that harmful project that spent 30 million kuna for nothing. For nothing, you hired 15 people, 20 people, and now you don't have that leader at all, and that's how you're gonna give them the roads now. And so you will give them roads. So many times they opened Lečevica up, opened these tapes, announced, the only thing left is the lambs, ate what was, even that's too bad, no more lambs. That's all. We need infrastructure projects to help develop largely the Dalmatian mountain. You've opened more projects really, it's amazing how much it's been painted, opened, announced, but there's no solution, but there's no solution. And now my powers, it's ridiculous, yes, but this is true, who doesn't smoke in the county in your horn, only the problem is that in Split-Dalmatia County is a struggle for the throne. We've got Sanaders, we've got the Bobans, we've got these, we've got them, and then mostly on that conflict, and this road, it's just power, it's power, it's question of power. So the only act that was real was to shut down the county, shut down, me when I ran for mayor, if I had been elected, but I almost got them myself, but there was almost a panic riot, the first thing that would have been my proposal, shutting down the county. What's the point of the county? Somebody explain it to me here. What is the meaning of the county besides what the decentralised funds send to the county and those loyal and long-time leaders pay for asphalting as I said in this case. I repeat, here we go, here's the former mayor, now the political secretary of HDZ Ante Sanader, I'll show you at every spot a sample of asphalt, so a sample, you'll see election cycles, local, presidential, you can see exactly. Each election is a black asphalt and a growing number of people and residents, less and less investing in important infrastructure facilities. 100,000 people have left the Dalmatian mountain since the founding of the county, since it's been working. 100,000 people. So something's not working. It's not a real decentralisation if the head of self-government is dependent on any single person project because in this case they're just going to share money, what is that function? And what should be, of course, I even donated 4 chairs, should extend the building of the Split-Dalmatia County down towards the waterfront because I made a proposal to the budget but it was not accepted to lift the floor of the building because it is a pity that so many people who were admitted are sitting in the halls or outwards in front of the grass, at least to have conditions to work and not 15 in 15 squares. So I repeat once again, we need to protect our money and infrastructure, build in the interest of the development of these areas, not in the interest of the survival of mayors and counties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167236	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Stipe Sapino. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167237	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with an associate, respected MPs, respected MPs. As the Proposer is before us today is in the Croatian Parliament of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Roads, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Today we will discuss issues that need to be settled by this law. It is important at first to note that it is proposed to adopt an emergency procedure law to ensure the consistent implementation of the National Reform Programme for 2019 and to comply with the new State Administration System Act, and it is therefore necessary to amend the laws which prescribe the actual competence of the Office of State Administration in the Countys of State Administration. The proposed law will entrust certain tasks of the state administration in the jurisdiction of the state administration's office to the competent administrative authorities of the county or the City of Zagreb in which it is part to carry out the entrusted tasks of the state administration relating to spatial planning. For example. in the procedures for the issue of location permits for the construction and reconstruction of county and local roads and buildings referred to in Article 4(1) of this Act, the specific conditions of issue by the competent administrative authority of the county or the City of Zagreb in which the exercise of the tasks of the State Administration relating to spatial planning is carried out. Specific conditions shall be granted for the issue of a local authorisation or other act implementing spatial order documents in accordance with a specific regulation. In the process where a legal person manages a public road or concessionary wants to take possession of the property before the power to decide on the exemption is applied for by a request for entry into the owned competent administrative body of the county or the City of Zagreb, in which the part is to carry out the entrusted tasks of the state administration relating to spatial planning. Traffic signs, signalling and equipment, as well as tourist and other signals, are placed on a public road on the basis of a traffic elaborate. The Croatian highways, Croatian roads and concessionaries, with the prior consent of the Minister or ŽUC, with the prior consent of the competent administrative authority of the county or the City of Zagreb, in which the exercise of the tasks of the State administration relating to the spatial arrangement is authorised to amend the traffic embossed referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or the existing situation referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. All requirements, special conditions and consent will no longer be worked in the offices of the state administration if they are extinguished but by the competent administrative authorities of the county, or the City of Zagreb, in which it is part to carry out the entrusted tasks of the state administration. In accordance with the Law on the System of State Administration of NN No. 66/19, with a view to establishing a single legal system of the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funding from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. In the consultation report, the public consultation in the Draft Law on Road Laws, with the Final Proposal of the Law, was several objections which the applicant did not accept, and the basic reason why it was not accepted because most of them did not refer to the proposed law, and some remarks the ministry will certainly bear in mind when the relevant provisions of the Roads Act are amended. Certainly, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Roads Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167238	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, respected counterpart Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167239	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the law as such is the technical implementation or harmonisation of the law in order to be able to implement the new Law on the System of State Administration, i.e. a major reform as announced by the government order or order of rulings, which is called some major decentralisation of the state administration and the transfer of certain powers and tasks to the county as local or regional self-government. Personally, and as a member of the political option, Liberala is a great advocate of decentralisation of state affairs, given that on several occasions everything taken over by local or regional self-government is generally done both better and to the benefit of citizens somewhat more adequate than it seems when it appears from the level of the central state. It is simply that all problems are better seen and made more clear in a place where they occur than from the level of the central government. In this respect and the original law, and all these laws that actually comply with the basic Law on the system of state administration or the delegation of powers to the county, GLAS will support. However, as we have warned in discussions on the adoption of the first law or the first amendments, reform changes and the adoption of a whole series of harmonisation laws, we will also warn this time. In fact, it is not possible to take away the impression that under a large decentralisation company powers in reality have tried to transfer powers to the counties and give power and power to the counties in order to cement the existing administrative management of this state, means a complete administrative system which has, on several occasions and in many elections so far, been questioned by election campaigns and by many political parties programmes, including those in power, whether an adequate analysis of the situation will be carried out and only then go to certain procedures and decentralisations, and possibly the centralisation of certain jobs, i.e. a new regional organisation of the Republic of Croatia and at all the issue of major fragmentation, administrative fragmentation of the Republic of Croatia, starting from the fact that we have a really large number of local self-government that are increasingly more difficult to be sustainable, and in particular it was in the period of economic crisis that has ruled in Croatia as well. It has been said that certain procedures and cuts should also be made, and among other things it was said that the counties would be different. I personally don't think that counties as an interstate of government between local self-government and central government are something that is unnecessary as a colleague just said. I think that counties are necessary, perhaps not as they are now and this number as they are now, but certainly as one body and between, between the local and central authorities, which can coordinate certain tasks and have certain powers in a particular area are certainly useful, I am speaking out of personal experience and I am sorry that the state has not started, not in this part of the transfer of powers perhaps related to jobs that once had a state administration, but in that part which referred to the powers already received in the counties, which are in health and education, and have not gone further into that section and given greater authority to the counties in the contents of these resolutions, means health and education, but of course, with adequate means to accompany it. There was no, there was courage from the government of Ivica Racan who took the first step, there was no courage to move on and do something and do first quality analysis, and then go to further steps of decentralisation. With what seems now, I think the colleague stressed, not necessary, says a colleague, they wrote that no additional funding is needed, so I was talking about it, I say, when those sets of laws have been passed on to some other resolutions where it is said that certain funds will be transferred, i.e. to include certain funds in the 2020 budget that were needed so far for the functioning of the state administration, which, according to the Ministry of Finance, will be sufficient to carry out operations at the level of the county budget and will be the income of the county budget, and these funds will be negotiated individually with the central government, which is absolutely insane, which means that this is not decentralisation. Decentralisation would be real if it were also fiscal, so if the counties had original incomes, not only for these jobs, because here's a relatively small number of things, employees who would go to the counties, and now have jobs, accepted and works of spatial planning and construction, and it certainly works better now than it did in six or seven years when the Office of State Administration is doing, now the county offices, means there are not many people, but surely that the quality of the service would improve, not only because of the wages that are normally in the county better than those for state officials but also for the investments in those people, and the places where they work, there will certainly be needed additional money and the choice of funds to do so, so that people would be satisfied, or that these functions would be fulfilled as necessary and envisaged. This way, if it's going to be necessary, as planned and imagined, that's what we'll see, of course. They will probably because every mayor and county government will make an effort, I hope, at least those who can do it, have those who can't do it in Croatia. I come from the county which has always brought out on its back this minus which the state has placed by adopting such laws because it could, but there are counties in Croatia that can't do so, and on the other hand, I say, we want to warn in this way I will say, HDZ, since the government in most counties in the Republic of Croatia has removed any doubt or any idea that tomorrow we are talking about the reshuffle, administrative reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, in the sense of increasing the efficiency, efficiency of the work of the regional level of government. Such powers as are now given through this transfer of powers to the state administration's office would simply be difficult to raise as a question, namely, for me and for us, it would be too much of a procedure and too much of a reform that would hardly be able to withstand political power, hoping that the mandate after that would be repeated so that here, we would like to warn that the money is not guaranteed, that the issue of funding is not only a matter of financing the staff of their investments, the space in which they will work, etc., but rather a question of financing these operations connected specifically to the road and other resolutions, but, for example, here on the road today, we are talking about and actually a question of money that the state can provide as the original income not only for doing these jobs, it would be a real decentralisation, but to ensure the passages from which investment in these roads will be financed. That was the right move to decentralisation. Ask in county roads how they stand with income and how they patch the roads. I'm not going to talk about local self-government, and neither do local self-government swears as the original income for more significant road investment. What they collect through communal contributions is not enough to penetrate the road with buffers, let alone to build these roads and invest in the infrastructure that needs to be installed in local roads. So it would be a real topic and this topic that we have now made some major decentralisation, a major reform, it's nothing but a quite skilled political maneuver, it has to be recognised, there are masters in HDZ for it, and some coalition partners are also masters for it, so now they've paved the county as they are today, and probably no policy for the next 50 years will be able to renegotiate or even open a question of reforms that would concern the content of the administrative functioning of the Republic in that sense and the county as an intergovernmental between the locals and the central authorities, however, I say, we will support the law since we have supported decentralisation, we will also support this law, but we are warning that what we think is important to know the public who promises and who actually executes and who is mocking the citizens and voters, before the elections one, after the end of the third term. It is not a responsible policy and at least a credible policy, but in order not to experience an attack that we are against decentralisation because it could be perverted in some kind of political spin as modern today, we generally support that certain powers provided for by these laws and also by such technical, working and performing and that the Parliament gives the green light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167240	I thank my dear colleague, Turin Đuric. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167241	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. So, and the content of this law within the meaning of this law is to amend the article in accordance with the move actually by removing the state offices in the counties, the offices of the state administration in the counties and by creating administrative bodies in the counties instead of these state offices, and in that sense we really don't mind if that is the direction of the government, we have already made remarks about it when I passed this law but in the context of this debate we should say the following. Namely, as the previous speaker, Turina Đuric, mentioned, the key point when speaking about this topic is actually the issue of decentralisation and the funds needed to carry out the jobs defined in this law. I'll read one title to begin with, it's at a meeting of the directors of Croatian ZUCs, in Karlovac, the title reads, the conclusion of that meeting, the local road in Croatia in increasingly poor condition, they need a solution for systematic financing, the key word here is systematic funding. On the anniversary of 20 years of setting up ZUC, Mr. Skorić said this, we should have a sustainable system of financing county and local roads in the Republic of Croatia because the current too low investment level is still unsustainable and is already questioning the collapse of the level of traffic safety on these roads. Current funds for county and local roads are only 44,000 per km annually. So ZUC representatives warn very openly and very clearly that even safety on these roads has been violated. I believe that you have found yourself in a situation, allow me that picture, find yourself in a situation at lunch when you have your place, everything is served to you, even the meal has arrived, and then there's an accident you have to get up to ask there someone who's pretty far away from you at the table, to reach you salt, you must have found yourself in such a situation. Why do I mention salt? On this picturesque example, I want to show how much decentralization there is now of the County Road Administration, in which they are, because I have read it, I think State Secretary that this is the correct information, here I have found the next thing, says the ZUC funds are determined at the monthly level of 1/12 per year, the HC is concluded with the ZUC's Finance Contract, and in the name and on behalf of the ŽUC, obtains salt for road maintenance, that is so much about decentralisation. So, salt gets, gets HC, so it turns out to the ZUC invoices, like the ZUCs aren't able to get salt, and the snow's getting smaller anyway. We have a historical context, we have a historical context in which we have, in which ZUCs and societies, regional road maintenance societies, have been formed since the 1960s, so on. The roads companies, today I think there are 14 such companies in the Republic of Croatia, the data shows that their dependence on the ZUCs is somewhat reduced, it was even 80% of their revenue sources based on ZUCs, so on public funds, today it's slightly less than 65%. By proposing amendments to this law, ZUC, which is the founder of the county, will ask the county's administrative body for special conditions for obtaining a local authorisation. I don't know, 'cause clearly what's going on here? I will repeat once again, ZUC, who is the founder of the county, will ask the county's administrative body for special conditions for issuing a local authorisation. And now he's just asking how long it's gonna take and if it really takes from one office to another that might separate the door, it might take a week for that request to pass. I am saying this because I hope that in this way at least efficiency will be greater in this work although due to these previous statements and the ZUC representatives themselves very little, very little of the ZUC funds spend on road construction, construction, mostly on maintenance, most of the funds are on maintenance, and there is not enough for that, and we are now coming to the key points that I want to highlight, financing the ZUCs. So, this funding is going on, how, as I say it now, I don't know, it happens in such a way that the minister determines how much of each ZUC will be given to achieve those plans. So it was in the past, so it's probably going to be, so now, so in the future, and it's not, it's not good. The funds for maintenance, reconstruction and construction are allocated by the Minister of Transport of Infrastructure, the funds HAC provides to ZUC are used to finance real estate, construction and maintenance, and the repayment of loans financed by the construction of the county local roads. These activities are in line with the annual plans for the construction and maintenance of the county local roads that ZUC brings with the consent of the ministry. So, each ZUC brings consent, its maintenance and construction plan, of course, it goes before, it goes to the county assembly, the previous opinion of the ministry and it's all nice, but the money doesn't have enough, and then eventually the minister decides on who will, how much funds he will distribute. One thing that still falls into the eyes, which is related to the ZUC, is about the local, territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, there is a scary, scary, sorry about the expression, a mess, there is a terrible mess, I have already mentioned it from the salary of individual commissioners where in certain municipalities, even regardless of the size, the deputy chief has more income than the captain in the neighbouring municipality, beware of the deputy chief, I'm talking about it. It is shown here that according to ŽUC, the situation is quite different regardless of how many kilometers per employee there is, but what we should also point out is that wages per employee, according to the State Bureau of Statistics, are double the size of the ZUC, twice the size of the county, in their sectors, similar sectors, and I think that because of the absence of clear criteria, then we must return to local or regional (regional), in this case, to the areaal self-government of the county, to their decisions of their congregations, so later and then the decision in that society which is found to be independent, means we must not get into the independence of their decision, but nevertheless let, to realize that the word of disorder is because people for the same job is the largest number of people in terms, in which case the largest number of people in terms of pay, is the largest amount of money, whereas the biggest number of money is shown to be in terms, and in this sector is shown to be that it is, that according to the largest. Here is just for the end just to mention some not only to be this criticism, which should be done here, so here I have used the work written by Mr. Anto Bajo, Marko Primorac and Michael Blažeković, which mention the following recommendations, which seem to me, which seems to me to be good, meaning what the Žucs need, significantly improve the preparation, the development of financial plans, as well as the projections of financial plans for a long time and bring them in time, in line with the planning process of the county budgets, but also the budgets of Croatian roads, establish clear criteria for determining the basis for the payment of salaries, and the calculation of salaries and fees and the compensations agreed with the adopted internal acts and ensure equal rules of conduct. You know, you know, every Zuc has a council that gets compensation for their work, I don't know what the situation is, I guess it's not the same, it's not arranged for this. To significantly improve business transparency, especially in the area of the district and internal structure, planning the implementation of accounting business plans and financial reporting of income, asset expenditure and borrowing and public procurement. Otherwise, state audit findings for 2017 show that there are a lot of irregularities in certain county road administrations, they have received a conditional opinion, it is true that most of them are unconditional opinions but these things need to be addressed. Finally, it should be concluded that the county road administrations do not have enough resources, it is not exactly decentralisation if they get most of the funds from Croatian roads, so they have autonomy to decide on maintenance programmes but the money they do not have but they have to wait for Croatian roads to find out, there were some suggestions about this excise fuel that now 80 lp goes to Croatian roads, later they have these things, but they should think about it if we have county road administrations to do their job in a transparent and clear and predictable way, because otherwise it is better to shut them down and some Croatian roads take over the part of the job because it is not all expensive local and county roads in the length of nearly 20,000 km, 18 000 and a few kilometers. As far as I'm concerned, as far as this bill is concerned, I don't see any reason not to support it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167242	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, esteemed colleague Milorad Batinić, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167243	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Vice President, allow me just one proposal that I would like you to consider at Parliament's presidency, here at the beginning of the session, we witnessed an unkind event, a provocation, an outcry from the assembly, and I would suggest to you if you consider it appropriate, that in such situations, you have done the right thing, you have interrupted the session, but you would also be begging to shut down the cameras. The picture we send to the Croatian public, which we send to the youth, young people, should simply be written to the Assembly sessions by +18 because it means only for the adults. I don't think this kind of provocation is welcome, and I primarily think that as an institution, it should thus limit certain colleagues who provoke these circumstances. Now, about the bill itself. Namely, this is a formal-legal-technical procedure to comply with the Law on the System of State Administration and in principle when we adopted the roof law, then there is no reason not to accept this bill and not to agree with it, that's one thing. However, I will take advantage of the opportunity and point to certain possible illogicalities or some level of overlapping powers, but in the sense that the same body only grants or formalizes certain things. Offices of State Administration when they were offices of the state administration, it was another level, the county office is something else, now that the counties have taken over from the jurisdiction of the state administration and now under this new law, the offices of the state administration or the county offices, the mayor manages. There we heard the same in the debate and we can testify in practice that unfortunately certain county leaders do not act in good practice, in good faith so I say, there may also be certain uses of the position in the aim and sense in which they should not be. We also witness the dissatisfaction expressed many times with the state of roads, highways, state roads, ok, but the county and especially local roads managed by the ZUCs or the county, the mayor, certainly do not meet even the minimum technical conditions that can be categorized as unclassified roads that are within the jurisdiction of local self-government. The traffic width of 2.70, maximum 3 meters, so no minimum technical requirements are met. Investment in local roads, zero, literally zero. If once a year the banks are cut down, if the borders of the forest complex are cleaned or I don't know from where, it's questionable, the utility companies that have waste-gathering vehicles suffer damage, it's all in the jurisdiction of the ZUC. ZUC, I understand, given the allocation of funds, there are not enough financial resources, but the question arises at all whether we need ZUC, do we need the ŽUCs? That's the first question I ask. There were certain thoughts in the previous period that county roads, local roads could simply take over Croatia's roads. When you look at the level of maintenance of state roads, it's the top of the peak. 5 to 6 times minimum over the year maintenance banks, first procedure, second, drain ditch etc., county roads if once, if once a local road not to speak at all. The situation is not satisfactory. And of course as head of local self-government, citizens are directed at us, the mayors, the mayors, we simply don't have the tools, we don't have the opportunity and it's mainly about local roads, county roads with their dimensions, let's just satisfy something, but what's important? It is important that if a traffic inspector came by any chance, he would simply have to, as he puts a blow to the catering facility, put a seal of closed traffic on certain local roads. They are in worse shape than an unclassified road maintained by local self-government, which, by the way, does not receive a lip for its unclassified roads, which on average have three to four times as much in the length and width of the surface as the local roads operated by the ŽUCs. That's why I was expecting to ask through the replicatious question when the Roads Act will come because I think it's a crucial cruel problem that we have to solve. And now that the mayor has more power, of course it's reflected negatively. Unfortunately, I have to make a point depending on the political options. It is not a rule everywhere, there are also positive examples, but mostly I cannot express satisfaction with it. So in these amendments of the law, we have an article 4 which changes Article 97, so it's a form that I'm more or less saying is not controversial. However, this is said to quote "When a public road is classified as one of the four groups in another group or it stops being a public road". What does that mean? Unclassified roads are not categorized as public roads. And you give the possibility in subsequent amendments to the law that local self-government can take over the management of local roads is they are mostly within the settlements, they mainly connect settlements within a certain local environment. Why am I saying that? Unfortunately by changing political power, we have had relatively good cooperation and I can praise, specifically speaking for the Varazdin County, the same director of ZUC equal policy, the change of government situation is unsatisfactory, we don't even get answers to the questions. We have made a traffic register of all roads from state, county, local, unclassified and precisely based on this recorded a complete situation and we send persistent correspondence every year which we believe our technical services should be arranged on a particular road. we co-finance. But when we ask to intervene on our own we don't get... we don't even get an answer. That's sad. Not to talk about building a footstep, no way. Unclassified roads are better arranged than public roads or local roads in the area of local self-government. I'll also look back briefly on the unclassified roads. It's like these roads are floating all over them, like they're not being driven around. I understand that the financial problem, however, with full right, is that our citizens are asking the mayors and mayors, says we are paying from the price of fuel. There is a local tax that is income exclusively of the county, so give the initiative, I will give it to the local tax going into the ZUC budget and to fix the situation on the roads that the ZUC administration has. County spends it on tax revenues, so not on purpose. Of course it's the Ministry of Finance's operation, but I also think it would be a good idea to have an initiative from the Resort Ministry because you're responsible for the situation on the roads, publicly, regardless of who the jobs are entrusted to. It's amounting somewhere more, somewhere less, but certainly it can be a contribution. Namely, why am I saying that? Now that the county has taken office as state administration, the question is, what is the meaning of the county? The question arises whether she should have a congregation, should she have a directly elected mayor? Many may resent me as a liberal, but it is also an issue of operational functionality as such. They perform decentralised functions, and with this law they are the extended hand of the state, they are in full sense the words of the regional state. And that's where I ask the question and the funding of the county itself. Can they be financed from income tax? That doesn't make sense. Of course, it's not an area of law change, but the question is about that part. As far as further legislation is concerned, I would like to say Article 97. I would like to quote it "or cease to be a public road", the decision is made by the minister, but I would also like it to be defined in Article 98, which defines the unclassified road to further intervene in this part of the Jel there is limited, says Article 98. "The roads that are in the area of cities with more than 35,000 inhabitants" have some logic, however, and with those environments that want to take responsibility for the legitimate demands of their citizens that they do maintenance, cleaning, local traffic arrangements and work within the settlement. You have another discrepancy in practice, city roads are spotless from snow, county roads unfortunately with a day, two delays. Who are the critics for that? And the head of local self-government. We're simply unable to intervene. We asked that winter service be organised together in the settlements, of course it is interesting in those areas where there is snow, and thank God there is beyond measure. Nothing less than a mountain cotter or a character. We couldn't get any cooperation, etc., so that we have an open tender every year like this, like, left, right, I leave a question. What are the county road administrations for anyway? What are the administrative councils for? That's the cost. They don't make any decisions anyway, unfortunately. I'm talking about an example I know about. Also financing unclassified roads. There are more than two to three times as many as county and local, I repeat no lipe, and citizens ask through the price of gasoline, in registration, in the case of motor vehicle taxes. I think it's an injustice, and I expect it, and I expect it also when the law that passed the public debate comes, although these topics are not regulated there, but I expect you to supplement and open these opportunities because I believe that a large number of cities, for the municipalities, cannot claim to take responsibility, but with just compensation. Which, by the way, will not be enough for everything that needs to be done, but we are prepared from the tax revenues of our own, precisely to make the satisfaction of citizens and the safety of all road users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167244	Thank you, too. We continue to present on behalf of the club of representatives. The next colleague, Davor Vlaovic, is in front of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here's a colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167245	Thank you very much, Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, this proposal of the Law on Roads with a final draft of the Emergency Procedure Act is for the reason to monitor the course of alleged reform of decentralisation, the arrangement of the system of state relations of delegation of powers to the county. And it is right to ask a question, which is the ultimate goal of these activities. Whether the quality of service is aimed at citizens, or whether it is merely political to say that something is done and that through this reform it is possible for someone to have greater powers. I think the first goal should be to have a cheaper state, and the fact is that we have an expensive system and a state apparatus and that it should ultimately be a better quality of service to citizens, units of local and regional self-government when it comes to this law in question. This law also states that no additional financial resources are needed to implement the law. The question is whether, already some 65 mere now, this is 66 or 67 laws that we are changing urgently to comply with the alleged reform of legislation, whether the effects of these regulations have been seen and which will be savings and whether there will be an increase in the quality of the provision of services to citizens and units of local self-government, and a few years ago when the counties took over jobs from the Ministry of Civil Engineering or the State Administration and employees took over when due to the increased need for business transfer to the county, we took over county employees and only the first year we received funds for their salaries. I don't think so. I don't think so. So the question is mine, there were words that this reform would follow and transfer financial resources and that it would be planned in the budget for the next 3 years, and I would like to see if it is real and whether it will be because we are going to be able to relocate powers, jobs, but not the means to work and carry out these activities, and that it will also question the functioning of the quality of providing services to citizens and units of local self-government. Because at present in the construction and spatial planning departments of the districts there is a lack of quality professional labour force because it is difficult for these amounts of personal income that you will get on these works of architects or master of construction, most often there are lawyers and the problem is that in most of these management departments there are still a large number of employees on the contract of work for a certain time, which demotes the same to improve professionally and to carry out their tasks in quality and time. So I think that should also be encouraged and highlighted as one of the problems that needs to be addressed urgently when the county's powers are already transferred to this law and additional jobs are rerouted to the county. It is also important here to say that and already mentioned is the ratio of local roads, unclassified roads, county, city and state roads and I want to encourage that when preparing the new Law on Roads to be discussed and relations by county. As far as the county has local roads, city roads, state roads, because the fact is that some counties that were more politically active, not to say more powerful and closer to the authorities are, have a more favourable ratio of state roads, and then maintenance and construction are easier for them, and some counties have a large number of kilometers of local and unclassified roads and have difficulty maintaining, and construction I don't even talk about. For example, if one county through the county road administration has 6 million kuna per year for investment and construction, I ask you how much can be done in construction if we know how much it costs today to build a new local road. I don't think that we're giving the same chance for development to all regions and that we should certainly discuss the model of financing county road administrations because in this way this is unsustainable and simply the system will collapse, because if we want to, and we point out constantly and through other laws that have been increased, increase traffic safety, that we want to reduce the number of people killed and killed on our roads, then it's not enough just to highlight the problem of alcohol, speed, mobiles, but to say honestly what the quality of local, urban, county, and state roads in our area is, as much as they invest in, where these are critical points and what we can do. Surely with the existing resources that ZUC has at the moment it is not possible to monitor it to achieve the safety of the traffic we want. Of course, here and through investment I want to reiterate the problem and traffic connections, especially Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema where we want to develop this region, we know that according to GDP, the worst ones are Slavonia and Lika, and if we want to encourage investment in Slavonia and allow citizens to stay there, we should certainly invest in building roads and transport connections because it is not enough just to build the road to Križovci and Koprivnica, but under the urgent continued investment and merger of the Podravska highway Osijek and the associated settlements on this road to Zagreb, but it is also a big problem that we have repeatedly pointed out that we have increased traffic of freight transport, international traffic on our city and local roads, because they avoid foreign transport and pay roads in Croatia, so they do not drive by highways, but by road to these road roads and certainly that we have to find the local road traffic that the local people in the city and local areas, the local road in which they are very close to the local road, the local road, the local road, and the local road, the local road, and the local road, the road, the road, the road, the road and the road, the road to the road, the road, the road to the road, the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road, the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road, the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road, the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road, the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road to the road. When it comes to the law itself, there have been objections to the public debate, and I will repeat that the units of local self-government are certainly making it difficult for too long for the processes of exiting the local and construction permits, which are preceding the procedure of expropriation because this procedure is defined by both the Roads Act and the Law on the municipal economy and the Law on Exclusion which is here because of the Roads Act, when it comes to the construction of local and unclassified roads, it makes it much more difficult and difficult to carry out local permits and enter into possessions, so it is necessary that the following legislation, the new Road Act, which is announced, that this is also considered, and that the procedure of authority and the introduction of local self-government is speeded up in order to enable units to pass the documentation and cross roads during time, especially, which through public calls for EU funds is needed to be made by means of rural development. I would also like to take the opportunity to ask if we are allowed to build access roads in the area of Stara Gradiška municipality, recently there is an open bridge at Stara Gradiška where the highways of Republika Srpska and BiH, towards the Republic of Croatia, towards the Okučana hub, and the local population has to ask whether they are in the plan and when they will be able to start building access roads from this new bridge to the Okučana node or whether, if they are, the approach of our people is also important to reflect on the quality of their life there, whether they will be able to reach their agricultural surfaces, whether they will be able to deal with those activities that have been worked on these surfaces, and that they will be able to protect them from the Croatians and the Croatians from the Croatians, the Croatians and the Croatians, there is also important, there are also 2 national hunting sites, where they are important migration roads of savages, whether they are able to take part of this projecting them, and how much of the Croatian people from the Croatian people from the Croatian people, but the Croatian people from the Croatians, the Croatian people, the Croatian people, the Croatian people from the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians and the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians and the Croatians, and the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians and the Croatians, the Croatians, and the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, and the Croatians, the Croatians and the Croatians, and the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians and the Croatians and the Croatians and the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians and the Croatians, the Croatians and the Croatians and the Croatians and the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, the And here's also when I mentioned EU funds, we are experiencing an absurd, so I want to point out here that thanks to the initiative of local self-government, the idea is made and the idea comes from the project and the outcome of the project documentation for regulating local roads with healing, with walking paths, with everything, that the project is worth about about 20 million kuna, that even the state has given the project documentation and now this project and the building permit stands, and that this project and the building permit stands, and it is about the municipality of Brod Stupnik, there is nowhere to run, we did not foresee the possibility that this project is now being brought into the finalisation, so here is my question on the occasion of these roads, if you will do what you do to do and there is more, not only in Slavonia, but in all Croatia that the units of local self-government have been subjected to, designed, even to support and EU funds, and so that there is a need to use of national resources to be made in the construction of the projects, so that we can not only to use the funds in the budgets of the budgets, which are needed, and the EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167246	Thank you, too, for continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB club is a colleague of Branko Hrg. Here you go, comrade Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nothing will change in the field by adopting amendments to this law because they will no longer issue special conditions to the administration but will issue administrative departments of the county so that there are no major problems but it will still be a little better in this part since the administrative departments of the county are ultimately no longer interested in doing anything on the roads and then there will be no problems between the office and the office who is the state, who is the local official and who is in charge, who is above who. So, in that part normal thing. But what everyone has emphasized so far, and I'm going to point out, it's okay to say that when a topic like this is on the agenda, to say that special conditions for local permits would be issued, you have to have funds to build. And I'm going to rely on what's already been said, it's not good how we have complex road financing now, it's not good. And it's not normal to separate anything from the excise duty on fuel for county, local and unclassified roads. This money is being collected on the ground not only on the petrol road, it is gathering where people live and today we have really one situation in Croatia and I repeat it here, that some parts of Croatia are very well, I am not envied, I am not envied, they are great, but still one suggestion for some future times, the resolution ministry, not the Ministry of Administration that in this work has the obligation to join these offices, but the Ministry of Transport to seriously consider the more even development of road infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia because we still have in Croatia today, in certain parts of unsalted county roads and local roads, there is also state roads, that there is one at Chazema, there is a very long state road going through that forest, but now we are talking about local level, about roads at local level, that we are not talking about indivisible. We have a house, we have people living in rural areas, who have no asphalt road. The second part of the problem where specific conditions for location permits should also be issued is road reconstruction. So these local and county roads are now overloaded in traffic not only because of increased traffic but because of the burdens they are carrying. Especially in the rural parts. Today, we have huge machines that are no longer tractors, which simply because of their load of the road are being destroyed. Car carriers, road transporters, say, give them such machines in one part, so-called machines. tractors are not even loyal to competition, because when car carriers register, they pay for the natural part of the road and here we have a situation not to pay, they're driving at a high speed of talking, it's from a local experience in the area where I come from, the area around the town of Križevci and the surrounding municipalities, so they move huge tractors along these roads, they destroy these roads, simply ŽUC and no local self-government for unclassified roads, they have no means to resuscitate it. Let's say the road from the Križevci to the Apatovac, where the filling room is of spring and mineral water, where every day the tows go for that water, the ZUC shares are rescheduled per share, Malta not a kilometer, two kilometers, two, just when it comes to the end, the first one needs to be re-scheduled. So we have a situation if we want to issue special conditions for local permits, if we want to do something, we need to change some more laws that will allow specific conditions for local permits to be issued and to move a little more seriously towards a more balanced distribution of funds because definitely a great injustice has been done especially in one part, not so long ago when some ZUCs have received huge one-time funds while others have been taken away and have never been returned to that level again. There was an even greater disproportionateity in the development of road local infrastructure. So, of course, we will support these changes but we also warn of this problem that is present in Croatia, in a good part of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167248	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is colleague Miro Bulj. My friends don't get to lose their right to argue. After him is Petar Škorić. Corican's colleague is missing. He's losing his right to debate. After him, his colleague, Boric, is missing, losing his right to debate. After him, counterpart Sasa Djujic, co-workers of Sasa Djujic, does not have the right to debate. After him, he's a colleague of Gordan Maras. Here's a colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Indeed, a person must say that it is very difficult to plan when you will have a debate in view of the situation in the Croatian Parliament or that suddenly a dozen people may not be in the assembly. And now the me who planned it might be in half an hour, 45 minutes, I came in the last hundred. So it might not be bad for us to have certain things regulated so that MPs are better informed. When we talk about this proposal and what the situation is essentially, we're talking about road construction, right? ... Well, yeah, because there are two points today. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It may be funny to you, but I've just entered the assembly right now, you just don't know if maybe you've already passed both the first and second points. So thank you very much. When we talk about this proposal and when we talk about the situation that we have in the Republic of Croatia, and I will look particularly at the city of Zagreb and how much I really need to invest in road infrastructure, and unfortunately we do not have a situation that is promising in Croatia or local self-government units when we speak especially the city of Zagreb has a bad habit, which is that every year citizens of my citizens in the city of Zagreb, Zagreb and Zagreb see works on the same roads or on the same roads. Local units should absolutely invest more in infrastructure and more in a way increase the quality of that infrastructure, provided they have money. So we have a situation in the city of Zagreb where the mayor of Zagreb has 400 million kunas more money than he had in the first six months of last year, but the citizens of Zagreb do not feel it. So we have some measures that are populist towards one small group of people, and on the other hand we don't have new bridges, we don't have new roads, we don't have maintenance at the quality we should have, and I think that level of transparency in investing in transport infrastructure, especially in local self-government units should be at a higher level. So what Croatia has done over the past 20 years has invested in roads, invested in highways, unfortunately not followed by other traffic solutions, and I think that today in Croatia it should be possible to develop certain alternative transport solutions, for example railways that are in catastrophic condition. I speak at national level and, of course, as regards the local railways, the local transporter of the suburban town, which eventually developed something around the city of Zagreb. So we have two levels, one of which is this state level which unfortunately helmets in rail-type traffic solutions, and I am convinced that very soon the regulations will enter into force in terms of transport, which will regulate even that air-connection under 300, 400km will no longer be possible in view of the pollution that air traffic is doing. So Croatia should develop rail transport at state level, we have invested a lot in the roads, and, unfortunately, at local level, we still have a lot to do with road infrastructure. Perhaps the solutions that are in the northern part of Croatia, there has been a lot of investment and there has been a lot of work done, say Krapina-Zagorje County is a really high and high level of road infrastructure. And there, of course, when people are taking care of how it's done, it seems that way, but unfortunately in some parts of Croatia, it's not exactly like that. What I am most interested in saying at the beginning is the local city of Zagreb and unfortunately a constant I would say the restoration of one and the same roads, not the supply of some new traffic solutions. In Zagreb, as you know in the city of Zagreb, unfortunately, 15 years has not been built a single bridge, no new alternative traffic direction has been built, and what we have in the city of Zagreb is one of the biggest problems of local self-government units. So, of course, when it comes to this subject, you can touch those things, given that our citizens have absolutely the right to withdraw from their taxes, and I would say from my income that they provide quality services in the transport sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167250	Thank you, too. The next individual debate is colleague Davor Lonchar. Here's a colleague of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167251	Dear Secretary of State, as regards the law itself and the bill on amendments to the final Law on Roads when it comes to the assessment of the situation, how it should be arranged through the maintenance of construction, the excise duty on energy, where it insists on the inclusion of reconstruction and reconstruction, I find it ineffective. The reason for this view of such a decision is based on the safety, quality and density of traffic which exclusively need quality roads that must be provided by management holders by categorising them. That is why we are required from all charges, fees, funds to return to reconstruction and construction as well as new roads because of the increase in large numbers of vehicles. And you know for a fact that we still have a road from the last century as vessels of housewives that connect our larger and smaller centers, which need immediate renewal because they no longer have the ability to function as a major density of traffic anymore. In fact, even when they were built, they weren't led for eternal traffic. I follow and I'm glad wherever in the Republic of Croatia to build and reconstruct existing but when it comes to so-called. Unclassified roads which are in the jurisdiction of local administration units, I must point out that they are left to a system that is not able to be maintained in this manner and let alone build. That's why I suggest that when they're already categorized under the Roads Act, there's a possibility of funding for them as well. We are all witnessing that it is precisely the first to be used for the first road connection, and it is illogical that residents who use them, and who allocate funds, do not have the right to have quality unclassified roads. It's not bad for local administration units to ask for this because I'm convinced that we know that we have to return the funds exclusively to their needs without asking other institutions and even for the least of the procedures to train normal traffic to so-called. unclassified roads. If the waist already thinks we're wrong, let it wipe them out of the categorization and the funds from the payment of the vehicle owner, who is an office payer, let the roads belong to someone else who has better conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167252	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, first mate Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167253	Thank you very much. Mr. Lončar, you have warned of a problem that has happened to me over the weekend, roads that have been categorized, for example, with the rank of the county road, are rarely in such a state and are not even paved, so it has brought me, because I don't drive much through that part of Croatia, brought me GPS, so I didn't know exactly the way, and I was surprised how many more county roads there are in Croatia that are not paved. So we should start solving these problems because I mean, again, it's a question of the units of local self-government, or county, and cities and municipalities. Either give them more money and leave part of the job or start working from the state level. So it is amazing how many more in Croatia there are unfalted examples of county roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167254	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167255	My colleague Maras, not since yesterday that large quantities of roads are still in the macadamic state, I am convinced that the Republic of Croatia does not make great efforts since yesterday to bring all this into a state of transit because you are also aware that hundreds of years have not actually been invested in all kinds of roads and I am convinced that in the near period, in fact, everything is going to happen, to build what has not yet been built.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167256	Next replica, fellow Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167257	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lončar, here's something you've been saying about the problem of unclassified roads, normally and from your position as head of the local self-government unit, and you've actually pointed to certain problems in the maintenance and financing of the same. And what I'm interested in, your position or your opinion exactly as the head of the local self-government unit, what is your cooperation with your county's county county road administration and are you satisfied with it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167258	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167259	Thank you, fellow Liposchack. As for ZUC's co-operation in Zadar County, specifically here is my unit of local administration, I have to express my satisfaction because, just at the talks, the decisions, the priorities that we have made from the county level and have been potential to take place and rebuild such roads necessary and priority in the Zadar County area, which has given great results when it comes to traffic in the territory of Zadar County, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167260	Thank you, too. Let us welcome the students and students and professors of the School of Economics from Osijek who have just joined us, good afternoon and welcome to the Parliament. And the last individual debate on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Roads is the debate of counterpart Marija Mačković, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167261	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I will look back on the amendment and addition of the Roads Act and, as it is known today in the debate, the roads are classified in public roads and in the unclassified roads. Here we are, in the name of the counseling club, the director of ZUC, specifically from my county. Today, when we talk and this bill of law is actually a fundamental technical part because we have made a decision in the system of state administration where certain tasks from the state administration office are entrusted to the county offices and I think that this is good and that certain things will be resolved much faster, of course depends on those who are interested in doing these things. Also in the various debates there were calls to the mayors, to the county, to the administrative council, but I know because I am, the community from which I have come, and I have been the leader for more than 20 years, that the ŽUCs can't and can't make their plans towards our needs, mostly working towards the means they have, so they have limited opportunities and they wouldn't even answer a word at all because we've all gone a little further away from the topic but we all want to say in some way their problems, because they're making their own plans as we do in our midst for the unclassified road, and the unclassified road is every road that passes one bike and which is in the interest of every resident to be in function. I also have to say that you should definitely find funds for ZUC, I am a supporter to ZUC as so far as they are taking care of county and local roads because they are in their jurisdiction regardless of the problems we all have. It should also be said that they should be given additional funding and that for these rural border areas which are therefore borderline and already have been debated with state crossings because there is a big problem in our area, the state crossing towards BiH, common in Gradina where you have columns where domestic people cannot come to their homes because there is no adequately resolved approach to the state crossing. It is also important to take care to find funds for rural areas that are in the sequence of circumstances in nature parks where you have natural disasters, floods almost every year where millions of cubic waters release natural retentions, to relieve the Sava River and surrounding tributaries, and then we all suffer damages and all our local requirements cannot be resolved either by ZUC or by ourselves. Therefore, it is necessary to find out in the Law on the New Roads, to find a way to finance and see what would be appropriate for ŽUC to maintain these roads of county and locals that are in their jurisdiction, and in particular how to solve the problem of unclassified roads because units of local self-government are not able to do so themselves because good roads are also a prerequisite for economic development, because in rural areas certainly the Republic of Croatia must not remain without a population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167262	We have four replicas on your exhibit, first mate Maras, here's your colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167263	Thank you very much, ma'am. Mačković, you are probably well aware of how much resources you have at your disposal to take care of unclassified roads, it always fascinates me when I go to the day of some municipality, so then the mayors read how much they invested and what they invested, it is usually about not millions, but hundreds of thousands, and sometimes less, kuna and then people say we took care of, I don't know, a few hundred meters etc., it says that you don't have enough money as a unit of local self-government and that's a problem in the Republic. So, as far as the roads are concerned, things are pretty centralized if you don't have someone on the Croatian roads to figure out how to do something for yourself in your local self-government unit, it's very hard to get to a more concrete and quality solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167264	Here's the answer to the replica. Just give me a signal when you're responding.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167265	Mr. Maras, you are in some way right, but apart from having Croatian roads, you also have ministries where local self-government leaders, if they want to do well with their own ends, run for projects and on these competitions, and you also have European projects and every unit leader of local self-government who works to some extent to have documentation, certainly that part should be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167266	Replica No. 2, fellow Vucelic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167267	Dear colleagues, please tell me that you would like to address the problem of Zagreb in which we have cases where Bandic applies the instruments of extradition to unclassified roads and these roads do not fall into state or regional importance, and only to start building over private parcels, and the whole process is left to the court which, of course, will not be able to solve this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167268	Next replica of my colleague, daus emil.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mačković, we understand each other a lot because we're with local self-government and you and I, and I agree with a lot of what you said, it fascinates me that everyone is talking about decentralisation, finally not talking about just IDS, but it's still not being implemented, it's still just form, and it's not content. We heard today, the old roads also have county, local, unclassified, part of them and unfalsified, but we must finally decide that some of the funds must go to local and county budgets, so let them be strictly dedicated, of course be used exclusively for construction, whether it was from the price of fuel, whether it was from the toll, something I heard about in the announcement of county, but also let the part of local self-government be considered, about cities and municipalities, and then those roads will be right for us. To agree, we all go to EU funds and run for the ministry, but these funds are not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167270	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167271	I agree completely with you and certainly need to find the funds, and I am convinced that it will help small rural municipalities because if there were no such small rural municipalities of the Republic of Croatia it would certainly be in a different position than it is today because these small municipalities, in particular, are borderline and development drivers in their environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167272	The last replica of your presentation, colleague Marko Vedligaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167273	Thank you, Vice President HS. So here, fellow Members, as you said in your debate, this part is, this law is actually part of this decentralisation package, and I would like to really find through this decentralisation a model through which we will finance the restoration or construction of certain county roads, of course, and, and unclassified because we have huge differences in the area of the Republic of Croatia in certain units of local self-government in a state where the roads are unclassified, of course they depend primarily on how many kilometers of certain units of local self-government are managed by unclassified roads, I when we were working here when we were actually discussing in fact and the development index I suggested that even miles of unclassified roads be one of the components that should be taken to determine that. So we need to find a certain financial model because certain units of local self-government with their resources can't even maintain those roads fairly, let alone build them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167274	Thank you, Mr. Vesligai. Okay. So, we are also done with an individual debate and now, on behalf of the promoter, final secretary of state Tomislav Mihotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167275	As I said in the introduction of the subject of this, these amendments to the law are only harmonising with the Law on the System of State Administration, but normally from the debate came up with a question about a whole series of road financing problems. In the RH highway we have everything along the classification of 1,500 km of it over 1,350 km of it realised. There's a billing system, a construction system, a maintenance system that's been established, and it's at a pretty high level. Also Croatian roads lords with an opportunity of 7,000 km of state roads, there is also a state satisfactory even more at a rather high level compared to the environment. The problem that arises are the county and local roads in the first row, and then the unclassified roads that are in charge of local self-government units. With county and local roads, we have a system of funding in a way that most of that funding comes from vehicle registration. Based on the Regulation to be harmonised, which will certainly be improved and will bring major sources of funding to the ZUCs, but another thing that regulates these amendments to the law where there have been enough words is the issue of excise duties. In excise duties, the county road administrations used to have 0.1 kuna from excise duties that were their income and were used for balancing. This means that those ZUCs that didn't have enough funds were getting most of that amount and could in some way levelling maintenance standards. These amendments to the Roads Act, which I hope will come before you very soon, will significantly correct these things and will then respect all of this and, as is said today, make sure that these resources are sufficient. As far as unclassified roads were concerned there was a problem in the management, in 2011 when the Law on Roads was made then it was based, the fact is that it was the municipal equipment of cities the source of financing for unclassified roads defined by the Law on the Communist Economy and the Law on Roads did not hit it. This is obviously the thing that, together with the community association, it is necessary to place itself entirely on other grounds and to find sufficient resources to make it all work together. There, just as much as a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167276	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. He's his first colleague, Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167277	The right path as one of the sources of local self-government units is not well regulated and hard to charge. Teleopers refuse to pay him, so local self-government units are forced to search for that charge by court. It is absurd for the payment to be regulated by the HACOM Regulation, which brings its five-member council. This council may confiscate income from local self-government units. Due to the introduction of 5G HT technology, teleopers are actually pressing HACOM to reduce the income or eliminate the income without asking local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167278	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167279	All right, those provisions regarding the height of the right path will be reconsidered and aligned. Therefore, it is the subject of analysis and will then be answered to this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167280	Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167281	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, here I would like to ask you a question, you were talking about decentralisation or about transferring some more money to local self-government units, I would like to ask you if there is a certain inspection within the Ministry that could be controlled here I am prepared in Zagreb 5.6 roads highlighted every year by the renewal. Look, I mean, it's not normal. So I am sure that there is no need for renewal and whether it is possible to control what the Zagreb roads and the City of Zagreb are doing about these roads. So, I'm pretty unhappy with the citizens saying that here again is Ilica there before the Chernomerec, every year it's being restored. So that something really isn't right. Is there any kind of inspection that might be able to control that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167282	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167283	Well, the inspection in the City of Zagreb, the inspection of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, is in charge. has a road monitoring contract that has been taken over as former county roads, and now belong to cities, large cities over 35,000 inhabitants and they can examine their condition. Therefore, I can say on this basis what needs to be fixed, both how and when.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167284	Okay, thanks. Comrade Beljak here, replica number three.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167285	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I have a question for you, Your Honor. Did you have in mind certain differences in the area of the Republic of Croatia in the resolution of this law? In fact, I'm talking about geological differences and geographical or climatic differences. Namely, the road is not in the same condition, or in the same position in Dalmatia, for example on islands or in the mountain-mounted part of Croatia or elsewhere. So at this point the money is shared practically the same for roads in Hvar and for roads in Lovinac, for example, and the road in Lovinac is far more difficult to build, it is the first thing, let alone to maintain. So you have a winter service that lasts for a few months, while, say, Dalmatia doesn't have one. Winter service, you know, damages the road in a number of ways, so, first in the rainfall itself, second in cleaning, i.e. in the movement of snow and third in the salt spilling where drastic devastion occurs i.e. the first rapid devastion of roads [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in that area than... [[Employer: A colleague of Beljak.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167286	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167287	Through the technical categorisation of roads, which is carried out through the restructuring of the entire programme sector with the World Bank, this technical categorisation is done on the basis that will determine the level of the situation, regardless of whether it is county, whether it is state-owned, whether it is local and then set a standard that must satisfy the maintenance of each of these roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167288	Thank you. Thank you. [[Intruder: It's ongoing.]] I am concluding the debate on the final draft law amending the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 757. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167289	Final draft law amending the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 757. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Roads Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 25 abstentions and 6 against the passed Law amending the Roads Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167290	The next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 640; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 640. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. which is related to Art. 190 Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the debate on this point, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure on the work of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport Infrastructure. Proposer representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Tomislav Mihotić will give an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167291	The final draft law proposes third amendments to the Law on postal services which will regulate the legal framework for effective direct application in the domestic legal order of EU Regulation 2018/644 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 18 April 2018 on cross-border parcel delivery services. HS adopted the draft law in its first reading at the 12th session held on 14 June 2019. There were no major amendments to the first reading in HS, or additions, in accordance with the report of the HS Legislative Committee, the need for a no-technical amendment of the provision was accepted. Six. The final proposal of the law, and in Art. 5. The name of the State Inspectorate's Market Inspectorate has been harmonised with the State Inspectorate Act. The main issues covered by this law are the final draft of the law to settle the following fundamental issues, regulatory oversight with regard to package delivery services, price transparency and price assessment for certain cross-border parcel delivery services in order to determine those prices which are unwarrantedly high, information for consumers making available to traders, as regards cross-border parcel delivery services, the determination of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities to the authority responsible for the implementation of that Regulation, the inspection control provisions and infringement provisions for non-compliance in accordance with the rules laid down in that Regulation. The objectives achieved by passing these laws will encourage the adoption of this law to improve cross-border parcel delivery services and ensure that domestic consumers and entrepreneurs benefit from all the advantages of the single European market by establishing a legal framework for more effective regulatory market surveillance of parcel delivery and the regulation of cross-border parcel delivery services. Also, competition will be encouraged and cross-border price transparency of packages paid by citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises will ultimately allow for price reduction and simpler and more reliable cross-border delivery, purchase and sale of goods and services, better protection from domestic consumers, strengthening the trend of package senders growth and electronic trade in the Republic of Croatia, or the growth of the domestic economy as a whole. Following the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the HS to discuss and adopt the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167292	Thank you. At your presentation, we have three replicas, the first colleague is Kresho Beljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167293	Dear Secretary of State, regarding this law, I am interested in how much will you have an impact on the functioning of Croatian mail or companies called the Croatian Post Office, how many more post offices in Croatia will be abolished? Do you know that HPs are asked by local administrations to co-finance postal offices or automatically remove under cover of cost-effectiveness? Croatian mail as a company of strategic interest, cannot operate in most part of Croatia with profit, it is simply impossible, on Croatian islands, in Ličko-Senj County, Žumberk etc., there is no profit. Are you doing something to create a certain solidarity fund where all postal service providers in the Republic of Croatia, whether state or private, will pay by model to Western countries that have it regulated and arranged, to pay in that fund from which mail offices will then be financed in non-profit areas Instead of transferring it to the state [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to the most frequently poor municipalities and cities. [[Intruder: colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167294	A fellow white man, thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167295	Seen, until further closure of postal offices, currently in the Republic of Croatia there are 1016, and at minimum needs i.e. 700 are needed, so over 300 are more than necessary, and this is covered by those that act profitablely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167296	Next replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167297	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm interested in a situation that happened, or how the ministry reacted to the Croatian Post Office. So, as you know, HACOM came in, made a solution a little less than a month ago that Croatia must no longer charge for the handover of small packages from international traffic, which it has worked neatly 9 months out of line with the law and regulations on which it has an obligation to comply with its work. So during the 9th month of this year, Croatian post office, if you have, for example, classically ordered a small package via e-commerce that came to the Republic of Croatia, charged 4.50 kuna after handing over the package, and it was not allowed to do so. So I'm curious whether there is a certain sanction for responsible persons in Croatia's post office and those who should have noticed that there are no rules to apply On, on, on the delivery of those packages? [[Agreement: Thank you fellow Maras]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167298	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167299	... The regulator, therefore the regulator is acting according to the law, we're going to look for a report on what was done. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167300	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167301	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. Mr. Secretary of State, I am interested if the postal service is a public service and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or those staying in the Republic of Croatia should have the same or similar service, unfortunately if we take the Dalmatian Zagora, islands, Gorski Kotar, Liku, this is not the case, what happens and in what way in the future do we intend to fix such a situation? And one more thing, we know that many mails in the world and in Europe have introduced this electronic signature of mail delivery, it's very important in various court submissions, correspondence, lawsuits and administrative procedures, whether in this sense something is considered to be a modern, way of delivering mail and to introduce that electronic signature. Also, the electronic signature is in the countries of Europe to create a problem because we don't have such a report [[Intruder: Thank you]] in the [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167302	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167303	All right, Croatia's mail is constantly following new delivery and delivery methods. Therefore, this is also in the plan to be introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167304	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac, a colleague of Ćosić, if I do not open the debate on: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 640. We are starting a debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the first is MOST of independent lists, colleague Miro Bulj, co-worker Mira Bulja, who is therefore losing the right to discuss this point. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ljubica Maksimchuk, please welcome colleague Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167305	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, today we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services. The postal sector is an important infrastructure that provides access to networks and services that are essential for the development of economic activities and the overall functioning of states. The differentiation and availability of the national postal network and its integration into global and postal networks, as well as the quality of postal services directly encourages growth of the economy. The main objective of the package distribution companies is to provide the package with minimum costs in the shortest time, thus ensuring that all participants in the process are satisfied. By joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia has become part of the European postal market. National legislation is fully in line with EU rules, the postal service market is liberalised, and borders are open to other EU Member States. This creates preconditions for increasing trade exchanges with EU Member States, strengthening competition, reducing prices, availability of a wider spectrum of services and increasing the amount of transfer packages. This proposal for a law regulates the real framework for the direct application of EU Regulation 2018/644, which ensures regulatory oversight in relation to package delivery services, price transparency, information for consumers making available to traders, as regards cross-border parcel delivery services, the establishment of a Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency for the Authority responsible for the implementation of that Regulation, and the provisions on inspection and non-compliance with the rules laid down in that Regulation. The improvement of cross-border parcel delivery services enables domestic consumers and entrepreneurs to take advantage of all the advantages of the single European market. In order to encourage further growth of the economy, this law will allow for the promotion of competition, thereby increasing price transparency to reduce unwarranted differences in the prices of cross-border parcel delivery, especially in remote and less populated areas. Throughout history, until today, the postal sector has been an important infrastructure that provides access to networks and services that are crucial for the development of economic activities and the overall functioning of society. The characteristics of the national postal service provider are the possibility of accessing households through an effective list of addresses, confidentiality and security of document exchange and ability, insurance, efficient and simple financial transactions. The legislative framework for the provision of postal services which regulates the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia has been governed by the Implementing Regulations Act. The basic regulation in the field of postal services market in the Republic of Croatia of the Law on postal services in relation to previously applicable FPI changes relate to the abolition of exclusive rights or monopolys to the provision of reserved services in a way that determines one universal service provider throughout the Republic of Croatia. Sharing of postal services, universal service financing mechanism, providing access to universal service network providers to other postal service providers and service users, and granting the right and obligation to provide a universal service of Croatian mail throughout the Republic of Croatia for 15 years, by applying the mechanism to review the conditions for the provision of universal service every five years. The liberalisation of the postal services market has reached a basic precondition for strengthening competition in the postal services market. The entry into force of the PDO has conditioned certain changes and adjustments of all participants to the newly created conditions of the fully open market and thus to the provision of postal services. In such circumstances at the end of 2018 there were 22 postal service providers, including the Croatian Post Office d.d. the largest donor with a share of about 85%. Croatian Post Office d.d. The only one has the right to provide universal service. This law extends the powers of HACOM The Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities provides assumptions for equal competition, stable growth and innovation space in the markets of electronic communications and rail services. The progress of information and communication technologies over the past period has caused a total drop in the number of postal services, but has triggered new trends in the performance of postal activity, allowing a range of new postal services offered by the providers to end-users of services. Among other new technologies, e-commerce has been driven by the development of e-commerce, which affects the intensifying of trade exchanges and the increase in the volume of transferred parcel services, the strengthening of competition in postal and logistics services, the reduction of prices and the availability of a wider spectrum of services. e-commerce is an important cornerstone of future economic growth, it allows entrepreneurship global presence and communication and real-time transactions, and quality postal infrastructure is one of the most important elements of e-commerce. In the Croatian market, e-commerce has a great potential for growth. As a prerequisite for efficient e-commerce, it is necessary to develop in the postal sector a set of logistics services that will complete the e-commerce value chain for those traders who do not have their own logistics capacity based on insight into the current logistics capacity of postal or logistics service providers in the Republic of Croatia and their comparisons with relevant examples in other EU Member States. A single market needs to be built on the Croatian market. The postal services market in the Republic of Croatia is an integral part of the European postal market. National legislation is fully aligned with EU directives, the postal services market is fully liberalised, and borders are open to other EU Member States. It is not necessary to provide additional financial resources for the adoption of this law and, as a result of the above mentioned club, the HDZ Representatives will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167306	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives is counterpart Kreso Beljak. Here's your colleague, Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167307	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, your Honorable Secretary of State. I am amazed at the way the problem of postal services or the situation in which Croatian mail is located in the area of the Republic of Croatia and all of this together represents something super positive, so we opened up a completely liberalised market, and this is what the colleague said on several occasions in her read speech. On several occasions, we have completely liberalized the market as it is something positive. Now, you have colleagues and state secretary, what the Secretary of State has said is the reason and the full effect of this complete liberalisation and unnecessary, and I will explain it a little later, it has resulted in the closure of several hundred more and in the preparation of several hundred postal offices in the Republic of Croatia. I can't have post offices in most parts of Croatia being profitable, I can't. Yes, this should be compensated from areas which are profitable, but much more profitable, but in a liberalised market in a completely free market, these highly profitable areas are taken over by private or service providers of these 21 except Croatian mail. I will be very plastic and very specific, I have experience as mayor in which the area of Samobor, where Croatian Post Offices have been trying for 10 years to close a post office that is not even in the lower kind of most invaluable in Croatia but is average, but we had to co-finance with almost 300,000 kuna per year, so a city whose is not obliged to give Croatian mail money so that this office is not closed. And what are Croatian mails doing, or what did the state let happen to the Croatian post office? I'll tell you now. When you have an obligation, as is the obligation of a municipal company, to send monthly payments or monthly bills, then you must call a public tender or ask for three offers and choose the cheapest. On a regular basis, the cheapest is not the Croatian Post Office, but it will be one of the others on the liberalised market for a colleague. Then what happens? This someone who is cheaper first takes the job of Croatian mail, then shares all the bills, all the bills in the densely populated urban areas, and on Žumberak or where it is not worth it, where it is far where to drive 18 km and throw one, one letter or one postcard, put a stamp of Croatian post office and insert it into a caslic. So, what did he do? He took away the profitable part of the job from the Croatian post office, and then he put on them the exclusively, exclusively losing part, and they have to do it. You understand what's going on. Now, when we talk about Europe on a fully liberalised market, there is no fully liberalised market except in countries such as Croatia. As they are, you have google today, you don't need to be an intellectual today and you don't need to have all the knowledge, it's enough to type in how they do it in Great Britain, Germany, Austria or elsewhere. And now I'm going to tell you how. So these 22 providers, 22 service providers must pay in order to obtain a concession in order to be able to carry out this job in the area of a particular country, a certain amount in the fund from which these offices are then financed, which in Croatia, we close or intend to close. It's very simple. So, if any company, any private mail, wants to provide services in Croatia, must pay out of its profits in the concession joint fund from which they are then paid, pays for the survival of offices in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Croatia is an extremely unevenly populated country with a further tendency to increase urban environments, or large cities such as Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, Split and with a further tendency to disappear and even smaller numbers of inhabitants in more than 90% of Croatia. If we look exclusively at economic logic, then in the next 10 or 20 years we will close 90% of postal offices throughout Croatia. You can't go to Olib, Silba, Huntovac, Donji Lapac, and even in some more famous places post office service is worth a stamp for a postage shipment below 50 grams of 3.1 kuna. It just can't be worth it. It is a social category, that it should survive, it should remain that way, but the survival of the office, which is also the necessity for future decentralisation that everyone is talking about, and few people understand what it is, and this is the same story of decentralisation, so where there is no mail, where there is no school, where there is no basic functions of any settlement, that settlement will in any case or not die out, it is doomed to extinction. The post office in Croatia has a long tradition and it is unfortunate that we welcomed state independence in order to destroy that infrastructure that Austria still has for us not to talk about someone else, created as an assumption of sustainable space, as a assumption of a sustainable state, a self-sustainable state, and we, the Croatian state, left it as our colleague said the general liberalisation of the market, and the general liberalisation of the market necessarily leads to the destruction of most of the territory of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167308	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is counterpart Josip Boric. Boric's colleagues have no meaning of losing the debate, the right to discuss this point. The next individual debate is a colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, this is, in my opinion, a very important law and what we have already had the opportunity to hear in previous discussions is a spectrum of services that are very important for the everyday lives of our citizens, and they are becoming more and more important in modern trade and the world, which is in some way expected to be at the lowest cost of people or jobs that are better connected. And I don't know how much Croatia's mail has made there, or improved its business, we see that a new sortery opened a few weeks ago, a big investment that should allow Croatia to do better business than it was yesterday, but in some things, they certainly haven't adapted. Or they adapted to that old-fashioned Balkan way of hunting in a blurry one. I said one example that was amazing. So 9 months to charge something you have no right to and when delivering hundreds of thousands of packages to the Republic of Croatia to charge people 4.5 kuna additionally what is regulated by certain regulations and rules where mail should not be charged as an operator is amazing. That first nobody, I don't think anyone in the post office noticed, because probably people follow what they can and can't, but it's amazing to me that it's been happening that way for nine months. So, millions of kunas have been charged to people and the Croatian post office has charged them without the right to do so. Since e-commerce or online trade will develop, this type of direct international shipping service will be increasingly and more pronounced and I see these days that mail has bought one, one start up company from 2016 based on the sharing economy. So it's a company registered in Zagreb that hired students unemployed in a way that if they were to deliver to them a package from their central warehouse for some web stores or international e-commerce. On the other hand, it is good to develop this job, but what Beljak says is not a problem for Zagreb and the problem is not Split and Rijeka. So the problem is where there aren't a lot of people and where you can't cut the shipping costs in that way and where in some ways we're going to have a much worse service than the citizens expect and deserve. On this side, the post office should, since it has, I would say one privileged position on the market, and for years it has been developing its sales network which, as we have heard now at 1,000 and some locations, should reduce it by 300 places, meaning it needs to combine one social dimension or that mail must maintain contacts and provide its services to citizens in the whole of Croatia as a national concessionary of certain services that only it can perform, and on the other hand adapt, modernise its business in order to monitor certain trends in the world, especially in the world of trade. So, by following a little mail, the fact is that there are certain shifts going on there, that business is improving and that, at least we don't hear anymore what we heard 10 years ago when mail was neatly epicenter of various, various corruption affairs, but what we've heard now is that there's been a charge of 9 months something that wasn't supposed to be charged is something that concerns me, no matter what the owner says about HAKOM, so that doesn't matter, means HACOM has registered something, but the state may even be the secretary of state or someone from the ministry sitting on the board, we need to look for a report on why it is so, why several million kunas of Croatian citizens were taken to what had no right and should be found a responsible person. So, on the one hand, Mr. Beljak says that citizens are justifiably protesting because they don't have mail in their place because it's a place of 2,000 inhabitants and it's not worth having an office there anymore, and on the other hand when it's taken in this way millions and millions of kunas no one reacts. So we also need to introduce a system of responsibility to run such a strategic and important company because our citizens are justly unhappy with these moves. I also agree with my colleague, Beljak, about the reduction of the office and in some way this subsidy, which unfortunately the town of Samobor must pay from 300,000 kuna for mail in its area. So we need to see the way that in the future it would insist that, for example, throughout the season, you have some mail open on the islands that objectively in one summer, in the summer months they work, and in the winters they don't work because there are not enough people. So, I think that mail is a very important segment, a segment of our fellow citizens' daily lives, and that we should try to keep it and that the state should in some way subsidise that part of the cost, and not that this is how local units, or cities, cities and municipalities are smitten. So once again, I'm going to say here that I expect further modernisation, further liberalisation in terms of simplicity in order to say business launch or doing certain jobs that can be done. So this company that bought the post office, which I used to say, is called Locodes, so that's the one that was dealing with the delivery of packages in the concept of the sharing economy, means to simplify it as if it was an Uber for packages. That's good, so that's where you need to liberalize and allow people to do certain jobs, to start up thinking in a way not to throw them out of the market, but to allow them to develop their business, but on the other hand, of course the state must find models and ways to keep and postal services, for example, in less populated areas. So one is Zagreb, one is Rijeka, one is Split, but it is of interest for us to have standards throughout Croatia and that citizens live equally well because if that is not the case we will have today, tomorrow the situation that will completely evict parts of Croatia and then de facto there will be more and more prerequisites for a more quality life. So as far as I'm concerned, personally, and I believe the advocates' club supports this law, I think that's an area regulated by a lot and that we should try to deregulated it a little bit in certain segments. I believe that such standards as we have meant and applied in the EU area will continue to be deregulatory and will in some way liberalise business, but we should never forget that moment that I just said that the post office in some parts is sometimes understood and as part of normal social life in some environment and that without, without mail in some municipality, county or city, County does not, but the city or municipalities of this simply do not have that standard anymore as they had until yesterday. So here, on that side hopefully, I hope we don't close these 300 mails because that would be really, that would be really bad. So that it may be an election topic, I agree with my fellow white man if the government has a concept of closing those 300 mails to someone else can offer that people have that standard again that they had until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167310	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. He's a colleague of the Iceman's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167311	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras in your presentation you said that the City of Zagreb is not a problem, I am in my neighborhood having big problems, therefore Spanish. The Spanish settlement is actually the town quarter of Stenjevec, which has about 40, 50,000 inhabitants and had one post office, waiting here can literally say an hour so fine, you took out that number, but people couldn't do some things because they didn't know if they came to order, only after the pressure of the city's district councilman and the citizens themselves who were ready to petition, another office in Maleshnica opened, so the situation was better, but for years it was so in Spain, one post office.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167312	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167313	Thank you very much. Well, that's the problem with Zagreb neighborhoods that just work like that. So, I'm also from one such neighborhood, New Zagreb or Travnag, I mean I don't live there anymore, but I spent most of my youth there, that's the situation and that's the one, those offices belong to what the secretary of state said in those who bear enormous profits because thousands and thousands of people deal with their jobs daily and everyone leaves for postal services 5, 10. 50,00 kn and now count, so if one office passes 1,000 people, that's 10,000.00 € per day, at 2-3 employees for 30 days, that's serious money. If we can do this by mail, then we have to make sure that Kresso Beljak doesn't have to pay $300,000.00 on Žumberk for mail. in St. Martin's, I'm sorry. [[Not in Žumberk, St. Matin.]] So, on the other hand, if we can get the mail to work alone and make extra profits [[Agreement: Thank you fellow Maras]] to some people, then he has to subsidize sometime. [[Intruder: The next replica is...]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: colleague Maras...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167314	...please. Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167315	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, yes, the Republic of Croatia is a member of the EU and through the arrangement of the relations of Croatian mail with the European countries and members is improving the service to our citizens in terms of the speed of delivery of certain shipments from Europe to the Republic of Croatia, but this way we still show that we are a country of absurdity because the package you order from London or Berlin via the Internet will rather be a destination in the Republic of Croatia, some place, rather than a shipment from a town settlement that is 10-15 km away from the city center, from the post office because there is a Croatian employee of Croatian Post once or twice a week. And what if there's some kind of call that God doesn't give to the court or some tax solution, and if it doesn't come in time for that citizen to complain, that's another reason why he's moving out of the rural areas? and by abolishing the office mail further [[Intruder: Thank you]] We're destroying the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167316	Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167317	Thank you very much. You're right, if you get a call and you're not a Turudic, then you have problems, Turudic has no problem, he doesn't have to take the call twice, and this one doesn't respond to the court and Đuro Sesa says everything's fine, you haven't tarnished the judge's reputation, keep on going, don't answer the court. But what you just rightly said, I think that's the way it is. So, surely in some small place mail plays a central role in communication, especially when it comes to older people. So, on that side, or about the store, so, well, they don't all have shopping chains in their places. A man goes to a web store, orders, comes to him, so it's good to have mail in his place and say one more time, if we let them make extra money at some locations, then they're entitled to these little ones had your mail to do specified [[Intruder: Thank you]] circles to make this happen [[Agreement: A fellow Maras thank you]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Next Replic...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167318	...college Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167319	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you mentioned that there was a problem, especially in rural areas. What I would also like to point out is that our mail offices in these areas have increasingly turned into trades and shops, and they are becoming less and less engaged in postal services themselves. Of course, this is not the fault of employees and employees, although mailmen on mopeds, rain and snow are trying to do their job as best as possible. But what should certainly be taken into account is that there is a need to help and further reorganize the system, to balance that counterweight from urban to rural remote places. And yes, a lot of mail offices have been lost, and there are no postal offices, and that hasn't been adequately compensated, and I think the state should be there to actually reorganize the system and as much as possible return to the previous state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167320	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167321	I agree with you, just to ask the vice president to allow me to get to the point in the last part of the sentence because I see that on a hundred he's ours, this one, so here I just wanted to say that I absolutely agree with you, and I would like that secretary of state to be here in front of Croatian citizens saying that there will be no more post office closed for the next year, that would be correct. Here's something that's been crystallized today in the debate because still there are people who are representatives of citizens, talking to them, mayors, mayors etc., so if out of 10 mayors and mayors all say the same problem, it would be good for the secretary of state to take the responsibility here in front of the Croatian post office that no more offices will be closed to protect the standard of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167322	Thank you, too. The next replica of fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167323	Thank you very much. Dear Maras, here I join your demands, so if it is already in the 300-mail closure plan, I think we should clearly say that the message of today's debate should be that the HS doesn't agree with that plan and you've said well, in many areas mail has always been, and in general when it comes to closing plans then it looks only today and only commercial purpose which is not supposed to be because it's precisely inviolability under the allegations of holding post office offices in those less developed, in which, in general, old people live, and old people still get pensions and mail and some other things, and if their post office is shut down in their place, they practically come in a difficult, difficult form of general operation, and therefore we all need to send a clear message from here that we are against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167324	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167325	Thank you very much. This is really, here I think we're being followed by the media, this is very important, this is where we get an official announcement from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that 350 mails will close in the next year. State Secretary. [[Who said that?]] We listened, and the debate went that way. So we have to be aware of what's been said here, 350 mails will close in the next year, they're surplus and they're not in any way profitable and the government intends to close them down. Guys, we have to stand up to that, we can't let that happen, it's a significant humiliation to our fellow citizens' standards of living. I must say, at this point I'm shocked, I'm still under the impression of that information. So I'm asking you to deny it here, so we won't and we can't let it close the mail any further, for the next year, any more.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167326	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, the replica of my fellow Loncher, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167327	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I must say that we are in part in your debate, but when it comes to the closure of the post office, then I cannot accept it because it is not true. I come from an environment where there's a lot of mail offices and they're not closed and they're at the service of the citizens. And secondly, no one in the law has obliged local administration units to co-finance the delivery of shipments and that's not true, it's only on a voluntary basis, and that's with me or anywhere else if it's some kind of political gain and that's true, and everything else is not true, here's thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167328	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167329	Come on, I gotta say, I can accept what you're saying, but that's not what the secretary of state said, he said almost 400 mails in the Republic of Croatia will close. So do you know what it is? 40% of all mails in the Republic of Croatia are not profitable and they want people in their places shut down, so we can't let that happen, that's the subject, no, no, that's Mr. Klaric's theme, that's what Mr. Klaric here accidentally lets the secretary of state slip away, and he told us to the MPs, we have to react to that, we're going against it together, and you, Mr. Klaric, and you, Mrs. Klaric. Maksimčuk, all here who are in opposition, and the opposition, almost 400 post office in the Republic of Croatia Government through the Croatian Post Office, intends to close in the next year and a few days, I find it very worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167330	Thank you. And the last individual debate is a debate from counterpart Sasa Djujic, please welcome fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the topic is the work and functioning of the Croatian Post Office, and I answered because I want to point out another problem. So, when the Croatian market opened up to other companies and companies dealing with postal services other than the Croatian Post Office, it may at one point have increased competitiveness and reduced the business of the Croatian Post Office, let's put it this way. However, the Croatian Post Office survived because it provided the highest quality service of all the newly created companies that started doing the job, and it is no wonder that it provided the highest quality service because it is a company that has been operating in these premises for decades, has great experience, has valuable and good employees who, knowing what is a postman in the village, the postman knows every house, knows everyone, until new companies can compete with it. But why did I answer for this debate? Because the last few years have been happening something that I can't figure out, I'd like the secretary of state today if you could say why the quality of the Croatian mail service has been dropping for the past few years? So, in my town, it often happens that the post office is late for 10-15 days, and we talked about it on the city council at my place, sometimes some mail gets lost and I don't blame the postal workers, but when we talk to them, it's just not enough of us, we don't have enough labour and now I'm not talking about some rural neighborhood, but I'm talking about a town that has 5500 residents who aren't exactly that little place, who's always got mail and where it's the last 2-3 years. The post office started late, where mailmen change, where the mailman works a little bit in Crikvenica, works a little in Novi, works a little bit, I don't know where, so a man who's not even from our city comes in, takes him two or three weeks to get to know the city, the street, who lives, and only when he finds out then they move him somewhere else. Why is that? Why is that happening? The other thing, I'll tell you another absurd, post office in Schmrika, in the town of Kraljevica, works from 9 to 1, so the person who gets the recommended shipment there, and she's employed, for example. in Rijeka, it is not possible to raise that recommendation because it can only be lifted personally from 9 to 1 and then cannot be raised 5 days later, 5 days must wait for this shipment to return, for example. to the Queen where the post office works until 8:00 p.m. What then will the post office there at all if people can't get to their shipment for 5-6 days and they have to take an annual vacation to be able to raise a recommended letter, it's never happened before and exactly what was said before, so nowhere in the law is it prescribed that mayors and mayors have to co-finance the business of mail, but are brought before the final act, so these rackets are stronger and it has nothing to do with who's mayor and the captain of which political options. So, in my municipality of Vinodolski, a decision is made, there's HDZ in power, we shut down the post office in the Grižana because it's no longer worth it, but if the municipality gives us a free office and municipalities co-financed the business of that facility with 200-300,000,00 kn then we'll leave it there with one employee and in this shift of 10 to 1. This is done on the ground, and mayors and mayors for the quality of their fellow citizens living in the area are forced to agree to these things, they are forced because people do not ask how it works and who is responsible, the man wants the mail in his place and wants it to work and we need to talk about it here, and the Croatian post office is big enough, has enough profit to be able to hold the same as in previous years under the allegations of non-profit exposures and that problem should be spoken of because it has, however, dropped the quality of postal services in the last 3 years. And it's never happened that things happen, people are missing, there's no favors, and it just doesn't work, and I'm asking why it's like that and what you're doing about it to change and I expect some activities to be announced that it's going to change, and not yet to announce that you're shutting down what your colleague Maras said, 300, 300, 300 outposts. Don't laugh, Secretary of State, that's the problem. So, in my city, the HDZ is in power, and we're all agreed that the mail doesn't work and it doesn't work. From my town comes Minister Butkovic and on that council we all agreed, all the political options, that we had a problem with the post office. Tell me, why is that? Why is there another postman in my town every week? Why don't two extra postmen get hired there? Why do people have to sort the mail that comes in after 10 days? They don't get to tear it apart, let alone divide it, why is that? That's not funny, and I'm asking you to answer those questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167332	We have four replicas on your display. First colleague, Beljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167333	Mr. Djujic, you said the mail has been backwards, or since it liberalized the market that it lost some of the profits, that's not true. Croatian Post Office, Croatia used to be called the Croatian Post Office and Telecommunications and the most profitable, most potential, the richest part of the company was singled out and donated to the Germans, it was done by HDZ, it was a betrayal of national interest, it was a betrayal of national interest, when the company was divided into 2 when telecommunications was singled out and donated to the Germans and now that golden coke to the Germans. On the other hand, if it hadn't happened then it certainly wouldn't have happened today if it had closed almost 400 after the State Secretary of the Post Office's recognition on the ground if they'd admitted almost 400, that means it's very likely and much more because it's known very well that they're functioning if they don't admit [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167334	Replication response, please welcome fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167335	I agree that this number may not be true, maybe it's much less what they say, because the question of how many mayors and mayors in, in future talks will co-finance post offices in their places to stay there, but it's not a good one, it's not a systematic solution to the problem, so you said well while it's connected to the telecom, then it was an income much, much bigger, and maybe it could finance these people so let's call them, lose them, or maybe not 100%, but okay, we're where we are, it's good to talk about it, but let's just see how, how to do it, because people don't care, people want to mail in time in their place, so they can't call for some event at least 5 days after the event has passed, and that happens in my county, I don't know how in the rest of the Republic, but I believe that it's different, maybe even worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167336	Thank you. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167337	Thank you very much. Mr. Djijic, you said that the post office, not to you, but to the town of Novi Vinodolski, came with a request to co-finance, otherwise close the mail in one part of your city. Now the next question is, do we know how it works and the question is, is it just as transparent and are they all in the same position as you thought? If there are almost 400, 300 and something that must be paid like a colleague of Beljak 300,000,00 kn, I am sincerely interested in whether all cities are in the same position, in which way they are charged, whether perhaps somewhere where someone from another party is not charging anything, and the mail is also not rentable, see how much space there is for cloudy financing not transparently per party, means politically and political determination, that's something [[Intruder: Thank you]] What is a very serious question [[Intruder: Thank you]] which should be considered. [[Employer: A colleague of Maras]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167338	Thank you, that's 10 seconds. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167339	Thank you very much. Just to correct you, colleague Maras, not in my town, but in the neighbouring municipality, in the Vindol municipality, the municipality is co-financed by the post office in Grizana, I don't know, I don't know who pays and who pays and who pays, but I know from several mayors and mayors who told me that they're forced to give city halls for 0,00 kn to be a post office there, which I don't ultimately have any or any problem with because it can, it's not that, but I have a problem that the city or the municipality has to co-finance a state-owned company to work there, and that paper represents the quality of the service of people who live there and it's not a systematic solution to the problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167340	Here you go, my fellow Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167341	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here, fellow Djujic, I also have to confirm that I have the same complaints of citizens, and also certain personal experiences that go towards this debate, which is one drastic decline in the quality of postal services that is obviously the consequence of this one, I will say new policies of rationalisation that quietly goes towards closing down certain postal offices throughout the Republic, especially in smaller places, it is obviously at the beginning to offer certain services that would be good for cities and municipalities to take because they will help you in business, and then also to co-finance the work of certain postal offices. I don't mind, but look, the financial situation of local units in the Republic of Croatia is very different and I believe that in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia it's not a problem to co-finance, but in parts of the Republic of Croatia there are low original incomes, and that's the northwestern Republic of Croatia. It's almost impossible, and here I have a new announcement of tax reform that takes the same amount of money. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167342	Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167343	Comrade Vesligaj, here you have come out as mayor to essentially confirm what we are talking about and yes, because of these differences between cities and municipalities where not everyone in the situation is at all able to co-finance, it must not be a rule, it must not be a rule and it must be systematically resolved, and it is not only true that post offices are closed in small communities, in the center of Rijeka, the post office has sold the building where the largest Zara is now opened after Dubai or I don't know what's open there, and for decades there is a post office. So, in the town of Rijeka, on Korz one representative facility, so if Croatia's mail doesn't matter business in a city like Rijeka, then I don't know what's going to be in a small environment where maybe 50 people live, it's wrong, that's not how it's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167344	The last replica of my colleague, Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167345	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, when we talk about quality, quality drop, another, let's say another problem that may not be as important as this problem that you've talked about, but it's a lot of people who often talk to me about it, which is that Croatian mail mail mailers, say when they bring mail are recommended to come or at some point when they know, I don't think there's a theoretical chance that someone is at home, or often, and when someone at home doesn't fit up on more floors, they simply leave a note after which they follow the famous walk to the central post office and wait for an hour, two, three, which people generally don't have, it't really piss them off, and I don't think it't be the service they paid for, it's not what Croatia mail should do. I think, say, for example. If the postman changes, the chances of someone coming home and delivering the recommended mail are extremely small. I think it also speaks of a drop in the quality of mail which is very worrying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167346	Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167347	And that's right fellow Sacha, that's what I experienced, so that I was home and that I was just waiting for a shipment and that I only get a note and it's not only a problem that you have to go to the central post office, but you can't even see that day, so if the postman was in 10, you found that notice at 12, you can only get it up the second day at all, so that exactly, the quality of the service falls, but here I am through talking to the employees of the post office in my town told me that they lack people, that they lack people, and that everyone does everything and women on the counter and mailmen sort the mail, they're buried there in piles, they don't get out on the ground, they don't get out after 2-3 days, then they change their employees, again I tell them who they're moving who know who knows who knows who the city, who knows who's who's at home, when they's who isn't, when they're not, when they've been in the mail, so many years of the last family.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167348	Thank you. We're done with an individual debate, and now a colleague, Gordan Maras, has signed up on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please welcome fellow Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167349	Thank you, fellow Members and colleagues, so after this debate and certain things that have opened up in the debate, we have to come forward here on behalf of the SDP Club and warn on, in my opinion, one big problem, which is that since we have Croatian mail as a concessionist or a company that can only perform postal services and, and not one, one type of postal service can be provided only by the Croatian Post Office and here on the Croatian Post Office is 85% in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary here to send a message to the stability of Croatian citizens and in some way to guarantee that this network of postal offices, which I think is a minimum of something that the Croatian state must provide to its citizens for the quality of life and services that they receive will not be reduced. So, we are concerned with the announcement by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that almost 400 postal offices will be closed, we are concerned that at this point in these offices which are as non-profitable Croatian mail takes compensation from units of local self-government and thus blackmails the unit of local self-government, we do not know, of course, in any way, that they are being placed towards everyone, but since 400 probably there are no special principles but who, as agreed on what is not good and would like to note that Croatia's making billions and 700 million kuna of income in 2018, although the profit is small or negligible, 39 million kuna is net profit, 2015. The net profit was 160 million kuna on slightly lower income, it also tells you what priorities are and how it is managed with Croatian Post Offices. So, 2015. 160 million net profit, 2018. Ninety-nine million kunas, incomes are roughly the same, market share increases, but what is also interesting, in the last few years, and specifically the last 2.g. The cost of staff is increased by 100 million kuna and 10% respectively. So, I'm afraid that unfortunately that kind of analysis and rentability is, the problem is in the mail itself, so you can find space so that only these 100 million kunas are distributed to these so-called so-called. non-performing mail, probably local self-government units would not have to pay anything or not have to give a single kuna, or participate in anything and the service could be the same as it is today. So, only 100 million kunas were spent on who knows what, probably some infatuations etc., in one year or two years more costs than it was in 2016, it is serious money and, and, and the question is, what is going on, maybe we should ask for more concrete answers from the ministry that is responsible for the company, but once more needs to be sent to Croatian citizens, the basic one, that this network of mail now in the Republic of Croatia is in charge of the quality of our fellow citizens' services, the delivery of senders, payments, letters, etc., will not be reduced if the unit of local self-government is valued, they do not have the money, and then the mails close that office, we have to send here a very clear message that the change of government will return to your place, city or municipality because of what we cannot allow this announcement of 400, almost 400 closed mails in the Republic, because it would be a disaster for us to protect ourselves, which we would have to protect ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167350	Thank you, too. On behalf of the promoter, the State Secretary, Mr Tomislav Mihotić, final i.e. final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167351	Well, from this pay phone, I'd just like to repeat what I said and ask Mr. Maras and Mr. Djujic to listen well to the phonogram of this session, and then maybe what I've been saying for the last half-hour has been said, there was no reason for this debate at all. So I said that there are 1016 post offices in the Republic of Croatia, that according to all the analyses it takes 700 and that it's not in the plan that any of them are going to close now, that's exactly what I said, why it's twisted I don't know, I don't understand. On the other hand, the Croatian Post Office has competition, there have been several comments by the type that it is a monopoly on the Croatian market, it is not, therefore, subject to competition, it must retain its quality, it is only supported by the state that it has a universal service in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and therefore the budgets are foreseen to finance it, that is only so much for completion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167352	Thank you. We have 3 replicas, first fellow Djujic, after him colleague Maras, then colleague Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167353	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, I'm glad you said what you said, so I get it, so no post office is going to close by what you just said and it's not true that there's no reason for this debate. So you haven't answered any of my questions, which is why I've been mailing at the post office for the last 3 years. late, is it true that there are no postal employees missing, which is why mailmen are moving from town to town, which is why women at, at, at reception, sort mail on the counter, which is why we have a problem with the fall in the quality of postal services or say it's not true, say it's not, that I'm not telling the truth, so you didn't answer me. I said that Croatia's post office on a competitive market is the best because of its quality, but if it continues this way, the quality of postal services or the quality of mail will fall, and that's why we warn you. Tell me why the mail is late. In coastal cities? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167354	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167355	Everywhere you have knowledge of a violation of the law and regulations, you have a postal inspection that needs to be reported, so you'll get an answer, she's with HACOM... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167356	Please, please. Comrade Maras, please choose your next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167357	Thank you very much. Today is the 24th 10th, I invite everyone who is watching us right now, and if in their place or somewhere closes the mail to contact me, they'll call me. So the secretary of state said that there would be no more post office closed and that it wasn't planned. I also call on all the leaders of the local self-government units to stop paying for the subsidisation of Croatian mail because it is obviously not necessary, the State Secretary said that no mail will be closed and there is no need for Croatia to take money from units of local self-government, or from citizens from those units who could spend that money on roads, kindergartens, schools and other things, stop paying for Croatian mail and if one post office is accidentally closed, please feel free to contact me. Do you agree to stop paying for Croatian mail to state secretaries? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167358	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167359	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, I'm glad to hear this, your optimistic words that will probably not close any more mail are we all aware of that if we want even development of the Republic of Croatia that we cannot close the mail. In many units of local self-government, municipalities, cities have no banks, there is nothing where citizens could make payments or similar services, and I would love to hear it, but I would love to hear you do something about racting Croatian mail to cities and municipalities. I personally experienced it, in my municipality we have 2 mails and have asked me to co-finance the work of mail, clearly that I refused it, we don't have enough funds in cities, municipalities, that we even finance mail, we have to work and build infrastructure, that's our priority, and I'm asking you not to do it anymore if there are small municipalities that simply don't have another choice, they have to pay their own racket mail to not close The mail and people left even more. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167360	Thank you, Comrade Prelec. This concludes the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on postal services, second reading, no. P.Z.E. No. 640. We'll vote on the wheel when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167361	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on postal services, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 640. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 34 abstentions, were passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167362	The next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards, second reading, P.Z. No. 768. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure provides that the laws which are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are to be approved by international contracts and are, as a general rule, to be adopted in a single reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. Does the Secretary of State want a representative of the motion? Maybe Buric gives an extra explanation? Would you like some? Here you go. State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system of Mrs. Majda Buric gives an additional explanation of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167363	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The three-party meeting attended by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System and the social partners held in Zagreb on 27 March 2018 concluded that ratification of the Convention on tripartite consultations was needed to promote the implementation of international labour standards. One hundred and forty-four, from 1976. Thus far, this Convention has been ratified by 149 member states of the International Labour Organisation and almost all EU member states. Following all of this, the Ministry of Labour and Pensions has prepared the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on tripartite consultations to promote the implementation of international labour standards. The Convention requires Member States to carry out consultation procedures between representatives of the Government and representative associations of employers and workers on issues relating to the activities of the International Labour Organisation in accordance with national practice. The obligation to consult will exist for the fulfilment of questionnaires, for the preparation of regular reports on ratified but also for unwarranted conventions, for the submission of adopted instruments and for all other activities arising from the statutes of the sea or the International Labour Organisation. By ratifying this Convention, the Republic of Croatia will become a party to all 4 management and all 8 basic Conventions of the International Labour Organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167364	We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one's a colleague of Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167365	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Buric, I am interested in one thing, we are talking today about the Convention on tripartite consultations to promote the implementation of international labour standards, I am interested in what standards are in the Republic of Croatia, especially when talking about talks with trade unions and employers when we are currently on strike in primary and secondary schools and the prime minister and the government of the Republic of Croatia are threatening that the strike will not be paid. Tell me, can you guarantee here in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools will have this strike and their legitimate struggle for their rights because they are underrated, so their coefficient is far behind for some of the others that the Government promotes in various ministries do you guarantee that their strike will be paid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167366	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167367	Dear Mr Maras, what I must specifically underline is that our intention and desire is active social dialogue, as well as all in order to address economic and social issues. I also have to remind you that in just three years, this government has increased salaries by 240 thousand public and civil servants by 11.5% with an intention of further increasing by 6.12%. And I must also remind you that during the period when you were a minister, there was no salary increase for teachers, for doctors, and for police officers, and besides, you abolished the goddesses and regressions that this government of Andrej Plenkovic returned. In addition, we are sitting again Monday with our social partners at the table, specifically at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, meeting with public and state unions, union representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167368	Thank you. Replica No. 2 colleagues Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167369	Thank you. Respected secretary of state. By adopting these conventions, we want to strengthen the position of workers in the Republic of Croatia. Well, one of the basic rights is the right to work, and the other thing that comes out of work is the pay for the work done. So I ask you how many other companies in Croatia that don't pay salaries for the work done to workers, how many workers and I ask you for a reason because here since this morning since 7 am the strike and employees of Đuro Đaković in Slavonski Brod, more than 600 of them have not received the salary for September and the state is co-owner or co-founder of this group. So I ask you how it is possible and why it is possible, the government is not responding to secure funds for the salaries of Đura Djakovic and other companies where the state is co-owner and no salaries are paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167370	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167371	Thank you. So, regarding your question, allow us to provide all the information you requested afterwards, since it is still under the authority of the State Inspectorate and not of more inspectorates that were present in the Ministry of Labour, it is now all under the auspices of the State Inspectorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167372	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Kolica Jelkovac, colleague Maras? You want a word? Yes, yes, please, I'm just asking. A colleague, Maras, on behalf of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167373	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held at the 50th session held on 16 October 2019 discusses the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards submitted to the Prime Minister on 10 October 2019 and the Committee discussed that act in accordance with Article 83. Rules of Procedure as a parent body. In the opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that the proposed law confirms the Convention and thus demonstrates commitment to the fundamental values of the International Labour Organisation, which this year celebrates 100 years of its activities. The social partners agree that it is necessary to access ratification by supporting an international contract already applied in the almost entire area of the European Economic Area. The debate supports the adoption of this law and following the debate, the Committee decided unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167374	Thank you, too. I am opening a debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards. The first registered on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club is counterpart Mladen Karlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167375	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with... ............................................................ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is a convention that we are all agreed to accept but also in a few things to stress that as an EU member of the International Labour Organisation, the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to protect and promote the rights of workers and their organisations. The freedom of union association is one of the forms of general freedom of association that belongs to the fundamental freedom of man. The achievement of that freedom is a fundamental prerequisite for establishing a quality system of industrial relations and for the possibility of participation of workers and their organisations in the creation of an economic and social process. In the Republic of Croatia, there is a relatively long tradition of tripartite social dialogue at national level but still sometimes misunderstandings and misunderstandings arise between participants and the rest of the public and related to some processes and roles of participants in this social dialogue. As an individual, the worker does not normally have the social strength except in some exceptional cases and does not have the power to negotiate, so he usually accepts the working conditions offered by the employer. So on the side of the world, power lies in collective power. The employer individual represents the accumulation of material and human resources, i.e. in social terms, the company itself is a collective power. The incomparably stronger workforce in the labour market can create inhuman living and working conditions for workers. This creates exploited employment and can pose a threat to the public order and security of the state. In order to avoid such development, the International Organisation of Work with the task of supporting countries in creating equal legislation and other rules to ensure human working conditions, life and work of workers is established as a result of the understanding of inequalities and forces in the labour markets between the employer and workers at the Peace Conference in Versailles in 1919. One of the assets that would have some effect on the establishment of equality in the negotiating positions, the world of labour and the world of capital is freedom of association in representative organisations. Only in this way can workers be put on a somewhat equal footing to employers on the economically strong side of the labour market. The International Labour Organisation has therefore played a crucial role in support of Member States in order to take the necessary measures to establish and promote the principle of freedom, association in their national, sovereign, national area. With respect to the aspects of international labour law, conventions and recommendations have special significance as the outcome of the regulatory activities of the International Labour Organisation. The basis of the organisation structure of the International Labour Organisation consists of three main permanent bodies, the International Labour Conference, the administrative body and the International Labour Office. The tripartite system of the national representation enables the representation of state, labour and employment interests, tripartiteness as a characteristic of the structure of the national commission, the Member States of the International Labour Organisation are unique in international relations that have contributed to the successful operation of the organisation. The desire of tripartism and the creation of social justice cannot be fully achieved if employers and their organisations also do not enjoy freedom of association. Therefore, employers have the right to a free choice to establish and join a employers' association. In order to fully achieve the principle of tripartism, it is necessary to achieve equality and independence for both the trade unions and the employers' association. Only with the equal representation of all parties can it be possible to create quality economic and social policies aimed at raising social justice. As a member of the International Labour Organisation since its independence, the Republic of Croatia is a series of Conventions and recommendations from the International Labour Organisation based on notifications of succession. The Republic of Croatia is a party to all 8 fundamental conventions of the International Organisation and, together with those basic conventions, it is a party to 3 of the 4 management conventions. The only unwarranted management convention is the Convention on tripartite consultations to promote the implementation of international labour standards. General Conference of the International Labour Organisation held in '76. She adopted the Geneva Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards as an important management convention, oral promotion of effective consultations between public authorities and representative employers and trade unions at national level. Within the framework of tripartite consultations and social dialogues held in the Republic of Croatia through the institutional framework of the activities of the Economic Social Council and its committees in March 2018, a Tripartite Conference on the Convention in question was held in Zagreb, which unanimously adopted a joint conclusion on the need for its rapid ratification. Participants of the national tripartite debate on ratification of the convention were both the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, the HUP and four Croatian trade unions. They have unanimously concluded that it is necessary to access the ratification of this Convention as soon as possible. The aim of this law is to demonstrate commitment to the fundamental values of the International Labour Organisation, which this year celebrates 100 years of its activities by confirming this Convention by establishing a tripartite mechanism for promoting the implementation of international labour standards, the International Labour Organisation for all phases of its activities. This law confirms the Convention as well as its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, becoming part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, would be brought into line with this international organisation of work and will therefore support the HDZ Club as long as possible ratification of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167376	Thank you, too. You can, you can stay here you don't have to leave because, now you're going to talk about the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards and on behalf of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167378	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167379	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167381	Mr. Maras, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167382	...and Miro will be very patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167383	It's Diego's hand, I didn't see it, I didn't see it. I'll give you a college pass. No, no, wait, wait. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167384	Thank you very much. I ask the Vice-President for a break on behalf of the MOST Club of 10 minutes on this final draft of the law on promotion of international labour standards because we must consult because this is a very important topic mainly in situations where all workers in the Republic of Croatia are injured by their rights, where we do not essentially have workers because the harmful government policy towards workers who largely emigrate as I said policy was targeted, that workers are mostly professionals from medical staff leaving to third countries and that is why the Croatian government is incometing 2.4 billion kuna or 5% of GDP, which is the most harmful decision on the Republic and targeted emigration of our workers. What does that mean? That 5% of our workers, our people of GDP 14, means 2.4 billion euros or 18 billion kunas are being sent to their families here that money is being spent. But it's a targeted policy, so there's no greater damage to these young people than when they're moved out, but it's policy right now, right now, good for our employee, as if he's boasting that he has a big profit, a GDP, a balance of all accounts. However, the fact is that labour rights are compromised and policies are implemented as well as the '60s. For years, the policy of evicting our people who send foreign exchanges, only then were organized trains, which work in third countries send foreign exchanges here and money is spent. Workers' rights cannot be protected by harmful labour laws. From Dalmatinka to Djura Djakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167385	Thank you very much, Mr. Bully, of course I'll give you 10 minutes, but after Mr. Maras speaks, because he's already started speaking, and then you'll be able to consult even better. Is that right? Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, the SDP Representatives Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards. Of course, as demonstrated by the adoption of this convention, which is accepted in almost all EU countries or Europe even wider than the EU and Croatia, unfortunately among the latter confirms this Convention, but better ever than never, and thus we show that at least from the position of the declarative or the wish that we are committed to the fundamental values of the International Labour Organisation, which, by the way, is now 100 years of existence. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, today in the Republic of Croatia, we do not have standards that could be satisfied with the position of a tripartite conversation or consultation, and on this side we see that unfortunately the Croatian government is trying to make cheap PR tricks and pulsism come out of a problem that is objective, here we are talking about a strike in middle and basic education, or their lags in salaries where Prime Minister Plenkovic simply because of his attitude and because he simply cannot accept that he is not in charge, making a crucial mistake and raising wages to everyone, thus burdening Croatian citizens who pay taxes, Croatian entrepreneurs who pay taxes and in some way not respecting and suggestion of Croatian citizens who are not to raise everyone but to correct injustice against certain employees in the public sector. Specifically, teachers, specifically, medical workers, sisters, specifically all those whom Croatian citizens see as very valuable daily contributing to the quality of their lives. And unfortunately, there's no communication there, so the government doesn't show here, I'm sorry about what our secretary of state is, and here's the learned sentence, two that repeats as if they're used to HDZ, that they've raised their salaries 11% and then compares incomparably. So compared 2019 or 2020 to 2014 or even 2012, so look, this year when the state budget comes, we haven't seen it yet, but it's supposed to be on the revenue side somewhere at 140 billion or maybe a billion kuna more. It's when you combine as much as 27, 28 billion more than it was in 2015 and over 30 billion more than it was in 2012 and then Prime Minister Plenkovic will say no money, so we've spread as much as we can, etc. It is a matter of priority, whether the priorities are to achieve new rights in the pension system for which HDZ pushes and new warriors appear after 25 years, after which the war is over, whether the priority is to buy a new squadron of F16 aircraft, whether it is a priority to spend public money on things in my opinion that should not be spent, and in the Croatian state there are many and new employment in the public sector on non-members of the sector in ministries. So that's all the priority unfortunately to HDZ and all those who are on strike today and who are announcing support for those who are rebelling just because it's unreasonable that they didn't want to meet and single out a little less than 400 million kunas, but everything exactly the opposite has spent 3.5 times as much just so the prime minister would say no, not according to yours, but according to what I said and it's all happening in a situation where there are no tripartite consultations at all, so the unions are shut down, no one even invited them, they have a press conference every day, they had before the government of the Republic, so there's no conversation and there's no discussion about any other stuff, it shows the withdrawal of the Labour Act that was held at the Committee's meeting two weeks ago. when she's a lady. The secretary of state came there because no one in the Croatian Parliament knew at all that the government had withdrawn those laws and at least knew those who were there representatives and employers and unions with whom they should talk and agree and it only shows you how much the level of conversation is respected, how much social partners, how much will they actually have in the government of the Republic of Croatia to do certain things to make things better for us and how much things are actually done from today to tomorrow flat-rate and essentially without any excess concept where you simply don't know what Prime Minister Plenkovic or someone else will remember in the government of the Republic and make a decision that has nothing to do with anything. So, of course, this debate is a little wider than what is specifically written in this law or this Convention, and I would have to say, in a way, talk about the topics that have been opened here and fellow MPs, it's amazing that in the Republic of Slovenia today we have a state-owned company and it's not the only one,... senders in the city of Zagreb went bankrupt also, 100, 150 employees for months did not receive pay, the state-owned firm Đuro Đaković today in Slavonski Brod did not receive the same salary, for some time the situation was that in state shipyards, so the state owner does not pay the salaries of workers working in its companies, it tells you enough how much this government is essentially committed to implementing international labour standards and the standard is that when you work, you get compensation, pay for that job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the basis of everything is the right to work, it's one of the constitutional values and a dignified life and the pay you can get based on that work, which should also be enough for a decent life. If the state doesn't pay salaries in its companies, then how does anyone from the government have any cheeks at all, I don't know what pay increases, what standards. It is amazing that we have this on the agenda today, which coincides with 600 workers and some of Đura Djakovic's workers who don't get paid. And on that side, of course, we would like to see no such situation in the Republic of Croatia that as few people as possible are exposed to such stress as I would say unnecessaryly because these 600 people are currently thinking about their existences, about how tomorrow they're going to feed their family and secure certain resources so that their families can live, get educated and have a normal life. So although we will support this law, we must point out that we are not satisfied with the standards that the Government of the Republic of Croatia maintains in this area. So we're not happy with the situation that I said earlier that people in state-owned companies, in any company, but when it comes to state-owned companies, it's even harder when wages are not paid, that we're not satisfied, that there's no communication with the unions in education, that we're not satisfied that nurses have barely fought for certain things, and they're still in a situation where they're still fighting for something that I think unfortunately the government doesn't belong to them. We see here that some trade unions have divided among them, it is quite often a situation the government is resorting to, and that is, instead of solving the problem, trying to share unions and thus making it easier for itself to work. But the fact remains at the end of the month that people who do very responsible jobs, who do very difficult jobs that are missing in Croatia, who are moving out of the Republic of Croatia do not have adequately paid jobs. And if the government were to think first, you should think of them rather than how they will take care of the ministerial assistants who have stopped being officials and tomorrow will report to the competition in their ministries and most likely all will be elected to the chief posts and have salaries very likely even higher than they have so far given this increase announced by Prime Minister Plenkovic. So the Prime Minister gives to those he loves and doesn't give to those who deserve it with their dedicated work. We are exactly the opposite, we are about to pay those who have been patient and have been patient for years, so they waited for the Croatian economy to have 3.4 years of economic growth, for the budget to be over 140 billion kuna, and I think now is the time to meet them. Let them endure the strike as long as possible, after all, the unreality of the prime minister is the only thing that prevents the strike from ending at the moment. Because if the prime minister accepted legitimate demands, tomorrow there would be no more strikes, and we wouldn't even be talking about whether tomorrow and which county tomorrow strike and children in those counties could normally plan their departure to school. Unfortunately, we don't have such a rational government, we don't even have a president of the Republic of Croatia who is able to even refer to it. So in Croatia, ladies and gentlemen, for 15 days now, the President of the Republic has not said A or B, as if it were none of her business. As a matter of fact, only fear of how HDZ will react, or how Prime Minister Plenkovic will react. The President of the Republic on the first day of the strike should have expressed its position, supported or not supported by teachers and people in the education system and thus how some authority in the Republic of Croatia from the position of the president influences the problem to be resolved. Our president, paralyzed by the fear of losing the election, has been silent for two weeks and should finally talk about the subject whether or not she will object to Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167387	Thank you, too. Since at this point there are exactly 5 MPs present in the assembly, I will give 15 minutes break so that we may be able to gather because the next speaker is Mr. Bulj, of course after consulting which he will now have at his club. Thank you very much. It's 1:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.05 HOURS]] And Mr. Miro Bulj will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167389	Thank you very much, my colleague, i.e. My fellow government representatives, the esteemed secretary with her associate. We have before us, as always, a number of conventions, directives, regulations, in this case attesting to the Convention on tripartite consultations to promote the implementation of international labour standards. In the final proposal is this law that will really help to meet labour standards in the Republic of Croatia as well as so far, all those that we have brought here, which are not respected and because of this today we have strikes of people, validation by the Union, are, in fact, pointing to the validation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and otherwise less and less workers in the Republic of Croatia, simply as they themselves have spoken and I will always repeat it once again to the harmful policies of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. As I said and asked for a break, 2.4 billion euros, 18 billion kuna comes from foreign donations, from our people, from our citizens, it is 5% of GDP, which means that mainly workers who worked in the Republic of Croatia have moved to third countries and, of course, with this contribution is praised by Andrej Plenkovic, Minister of Finance and that money is mostly spent on consumption, so increased economic growth is essentially the most harmful policy that can happen in the long run because this is as planned as I said Josip Broz Tito in the '60s sent trains organized by our people to Germany, so now Andrej Plenkovic. 5% of GDP is currently in 2018. And experts raise their voice. If working rights were protected as in international countries, then in other countries our workers would not go to other countries of quality. And this is one hard data and a relationship with workers, we see that now they strike medical staff who mostly goes out, we see educators, we see high school students, we see the problem of workers in various heres Đura Djakovic, whom he mentioned just before colleagues who can't achieve their rights and incomes. That's how it's best-quality people in bootleggers, that's how it is. in shipbuilding sites, the most quality fit from welders to engineers, to designers who have also gone to third countries and Croatia has been recognised in the world by shipbuilding and today these people who have been created, who are invested in them, from doctors, from shipbuilders, which was also an industrial export branch, these workers exercise their rights in third countries. And I repeat again, through the signals, through payments, they send money to the Republic of Croatia's respected secretaries, and that is today 5% of the GDP your government and your prime minister boasts is making progress in the Republic of Croatia. 5% of GDP from our people from abroad. For this reason we have 2/3 of Croatia empty from Slavonia, Gorski Kotar, Zagorje, something we have Dalmatia, the entire hinterland, something we have along the coastal belt of the population, we have something of tourism income but we still have no additional value because the work in agriculture is broken to the bottom. Simply everything that was invested in agriculture was wrongly invested, companies that were basically holding the Croatian economy back. Our farmer, a farmer, as difficult as in industrial branches, has evicted the vanca and I repeat again, there is no more harmful policy now than today. I will repeat what I said this morning, and I will repeat every day that the smaller population is now in the most once most demographically strong areas such as my Dalmatian Zagora and even the frozen ones in BiH, i.e. Hercegovina, where it was a source of human potential that filled Zagreb and third countries, is now literally empty and it is a demographic breakdown. We don't have the workforce today, we don't have it right now. And this is your indication that out of the line, listen well, in 2018 that the minister had failed, the finance in the report, he denied this information that in 2018. 2.4 billion come from our people, i.e. of our citizens, through the orders from abroad, 2.4 billion are coming to the Republic of Croatia. But it's long-term, it's now good for Andrej Plenkovic, who will boast of increased spending, balancing the balance, but we just don't have a worker, it's all gone, and it's a policy planned, targeted, as it was targeted in the '60s it's now. There's no worse policy. During the Ottoman Empire, the Turkish Empire in the area where I come from was more of a population than now and now we are free of the Republic of Croatia. That's the way it is in Slavonia. And now a new law where it will be possible to sell agricultural land to foreigners will go to foreigners agricultural land, something the government said would demand an extension of selling deadlines to foreign, physical and legal persons of land. So there may be some workers in agriculture but who will work in the interests of foreigners, in fact, will work for foreign companies on their grandfathers. Instead of creating good, a new value that would have to be sold in tourism through agricultural production rather than importing bad, harmful food from other countries of poorer quality safely than sold in those countries where our people went to work. Of course this law, when you mention it, means consulting tripartite between the government, unions, employers, it's good to hear about the ear, but when I get back just a little bit of what rights are in the Republic of Macedonia, only when I remember, here I've been asking about workers from Dalmatia who haven't received their claims in nine years, was a bankruptcy procedure where the state is guilty, it was once owned by a state. To give up its claims by the state of that worker who waited for 9 years and worked without pay for 10 years, that the state gave up its claim, which the prime minister promised me to question here, did not give up that part of the state. At least these women who are hungry, without a marenda, without organised transportation because they did not have to transport, workers of the Dalmatian girl of Sin, and in other areas, if she had given up, at least those women would have received their salary. For he who does not pay shall be punished according to the righteousness of the earth and of God. No greater, no greater evil, there means one of the greatest halls is not to pay a man his work. And that's perfectly normal in Croatia. And of course when we talk here in front of the government we have consultations, it's the law, it's going to make it better. What's going to make it better? What's going to make it better? He wants to improve the more organized targeted outcomes of our young people, it's already a planned policy, in the '60s. It also happened in my neighborhoods, I repeat again but throughout the Republic of Croatia but then they stayed at least children and wives mostly because men went abroad, sent that money and invested in their families. So this is about politics, economic and demographic. I'm going to repeat this information all the time. The most harmful policies that could be, and this is what experts have started to say publicly now that the amazing data is very bad. The epic scales will have an impact, the epic that 5% of GDP is from our people from abroad. 5% of GDP, 2.4 billion, is the largest share in GDP, from that part, of our people from abroad growing rapidly. What's he saying? To move out, but right now good for the prime minister, they're going to brag about how that money is, because that money is for consumption. There has never been a worse policy, never worse policy towards workers in the Republic of Croatia and their rights. Because if they had the right others would work here and live and create a family, because there is no nicer state than the Republic of Croatia, the more diverse. However, we do not have the strength to protect nor workers in the Republic of Croatia, we do not have to protect our territory or declare an exclusive economic belt, we do not have to protect our forests where we would create additional value, so workers would have more wages than where we have forests, we export our products, but by the way our people who are professional staff, where they worked in sawdustries and created added value through furniture and we do not have the strength to protect or agricultural land that has grown into weeds. We don't have the power of irrigation to stay people in those areas. We do not have the strength and courage to keep people in these areas to work and live to exercise their right to work or in the area where they provide us. Well, it's embarrassing that in my area where they look from the village of Cetina, ore, sources where Split is powered, they don't have water supply. The area of the Malvsko plato, Ogorja, Muća, understone part, ore, springs, wealth, numerous sources of the river Cetina. This is the fact that Croatia and these were the richest areas of human resources, the most numerous family. A large part of the people come from these parts and in Zagreb and in other large cities and environments and are the most qualitative and create new values but unfortunately not in the Republic of Croatia. And this is a government policy that's terribly bad, in the long run I'm afraid I'm not fixable that people go out because they don't have the workers' rights they have here in other countries. They don't because if 5% of GDP is 2.4 billion euros or 18 billion kuna at the hands of our people, then it's really unacceptable for our people, regardless of this Convention on tripartite consultations between the government, unions and policy makers. And that's what economic experts say, you can track it in the last few days and in the media. I said that when the finance minister was here but then he said a much smaller amount, a much smaller amount based on foreign credits. And now here's the fact that it's 2.4 billion euros or 18 billion kuna. Therefore, labour rights are the most important rights only that we have lost workers, in shipbuilding in industries. I don't know in agriculture, where they are, I don't know. And those combinations that existed they were shut down. These giants who've been created are being taken over by strangers. So we've got a big problem, we haven't protected anything, nothing. Our people who work in multinational companies, I won't even talk to teleopers, and the salaries are much lower for our company workers, for example. In HT, it's much lower than Deute Telekom in Germany. These are facts and this is the inequality of the Croatian people within the EU. Or the same teleoper if he pays his salary in Germany twice as much to his employee and in Croatia he reduced the number of employees, took over our infrastructure, doesn't pay the right of service, he doesn't need a building permit and our worker has reduced the number and reduced the salary and while in those countries there is 20% gain or margins in the Republic of Croatia boasts the president and the administration boasts with 42% profit margins. So within the EU all of these conventions that we bring in the Croatian worker is not protected. Here I took an example of a company operating in Germany Deute Telekom and its meaning and their company is the only one carrying HT, but it has nothing to do with Croatia because the profits are derived, not invested in the Republic of Croatia, but the profits are invested in other countries where our workers will have to go again. And that's a huge problem. A huge problem is that in Croatia there are no conditions for a worker to have his rights as well as standards as in other countries. As much as this convention will help, I'd like to help a little, but I'm afraid it won't help at all. I'm afraid that the same trend of targeted eviction will continue, and based on evidence, it's occurred in Yugoslavia to move our people, families stay, then they send deutsche stamps to their families. The same policy of Adrej Plenkovic now in 2019 or Josip Broz Tito in the 60s. And so the budget was filled, these foreign exchanges, the same, because it's amazing that 5% of GDP is from overseas from our people working outside. Whether it's doctors, teachers, workers, welders, engineers, it's a fact. But we're going to be left empty, we're going to be out of workers, we're going to be working hard, and we need to work on that. And all of these conventions, if this kind of policy continues, you're free to, uh, honorary secretary, tear it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167390	We will now first welcome the students and students of the first Ogulin elementary school. Please give it up. [[Applause.]] It's nice to have you with us. Now Mr. Ante Babic is like an individual debate, he's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Bulj is withdrawing and Mr. Sasa Djujic is next with his individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167391	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. So, I, as well as my colleagues from my club, will support this Law on Confirmation of the Convention on tripartite consultations for the implementation of international labour standards, but what I want to say is, mention briefly the circumstances in which we are discussing this law, so it is symbolic that we are today discussing international labour standards and talks practically passing the Law on Union and Government negotiations at a time when almost the entire Croatian strike, when there is no school for more than 10 days in a row, when these strikes continue, when strikes in economic branches, not only in educational, etc. And it's very symbolic. And why did this strike take place? So, I'm not going to talk now about the reasons the unions are looking for, which the government doesn't, but I want to say that we're passing laws and we're confirming international conventions that we should act on, and in our country we don't abide by it. So it turns out that because of the government's haughtiness, we have strikes today and that messages are being sent all the time, like, 10 days ago, 15 days ago, the prime minister is talking, we offer the unions 4%, they're asking for 6, that's not compromise, there's no deviation. Then here at the pay phone says, here we go to six everyone, etc. So, it's said that the pension reform carried out by your ministry was the best thing that could have happened to Croatia, that you've thrown millions into promotional videos and ads that are clearly citizens who don't know and they don't see that they should have explained that this reform is a great thing for them, that it's great and that we all talk nonsense from the opposition, and then you're doing it after you've been collecting signatures to look for a referendum on the issue, then you pulled it off as if it never existed. And that's what illustrates the government's relationship to the unions, to the social partners and to the negotiations on them. Therefore, the procedures that come after the hard views of Prime Minister Plenkovic and the ministers in this government that something cannot be done and that something is great and then gives up on it and acts as if nothing had happened, shows that there is no inability but only a matter of will and the matter of the government's relationship with the unions. So, all the moves later show that it could be done immediately and not strike today because, I don't know, unions are also unreasonable or because, I don't know, they're looking for something that doesn't belong to them but only to do it because the government didn't want to talk. So, a few days ago, the minister assured us, we said ours, no talking. Today, Vrdoljak, who is nothing in this government at all, has no duty, sends a message Monday to the three ministers at the union table. How come, I don't know, some person who's the president of some government party who's not even an official in the state has the right to send before any ministers or any other, or Prime Minister finally? I'm wondering if, say, the Prime Minister will, after three ministers on Monday, sit down with the unions at the table because it is up to the ego to talk. And then they wouldn't have come to this situation because in this situation the students, students, and parents suffer the most. So, kids who don't go to school, workers who don't get paid, say, in Djura Djakovic and go on strike, that's another story now, but ultimately, parents suffer the most, and children who may not go to school today, but they'll have to work out those days for which they didn't go, and why? Because of the government's ego, and that's what we need to say and no conventions or international documents will, they can't help or facilitate the situation if it's about the ego of those who should talk, implement and behave Europeanly as they keep speaking in accordance with these conventions that we adopt here. Here, not to be too long, that's all I wanted to say. I'll support this law, I think it's good, but you have to say what kind of atmosphere we're bringing it in, and there's the best picture of sometimes laws, if we don't follow them, they don't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167392	Two replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167393	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, you have said well that here are teachers, teachers, teachers with the right to strike and that by adopting this international contract, the declaration, which we are already questioning, first of all, that we must ask ourselves what the laws are worth to us, if they are not implemented in the Republic of Croatia and if there is no real dialogue between the social partners on such laws. And especially when we put ourselves in a position for the unions to announce a strike, to warn the government in July and the prime minister that Djuro Djakovic will be in a situation that he will not be able to pay his salary and that no one reacts. Then why international contracts, what laws, if you neglect what is most valuable in Croatia, which is work, is paid from this work to pay for workers who make up the backbone of this society and charge the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Why are workers always on the sidelines? And that they have to settle their rights by strike? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167394	Answer, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167395	Exactly, my colleague Vlaovic, and when we talk about Đura Djakovic, then the government's responsibility is even greater since the government is almost 40% co-owner of Đura Djakovic. And according to what the trade unions and people have been ordering from there today, they've been warning the government of their company's problems for a year and a half, and they're warning that they're going to come to what happened today, and they haven't been able to live for months and they can't live and they have to fight with a strike for some things that are normal in Europe. So we refer to European Croatia, European standards, and in our own country we do not adhere to what is most normal, which is that people are paid for their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167396	Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167397	Dearly respected, Djuro Djakovic is the problem of this government, but I will say when was the problem of a former government that handled it this way, Djuro Djakovic threw the money into the capitalisation of Tesla Bank during the Kukuriku coalition. The director was from HNS Kovacevic, of course, with the knowledge of Milanovic. The same Kovacevic signed a contract with his wife, Nenada Stazic, for PR services. Her company's name is Business Clinic, and the contract was at 30,000 kuna a month. We haven't seen any PR actions for Djuru Djakovic. That's what the trade unions of Djura Djakovic were doing, so the famous contract with ex Stazicko was terminated. Kovačević, who was placed in Đur Đaković by Cačić and Vrdoljak, went with the driver every day from Zagreb to Slavonski Brod, so now calculate the costs of the director of the expert who left Đur Đaković in debt of 150 million kuna. This will be handled by this government because she didn't do anything but hire her.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167398	Mr. Djujic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167399	Well, colleague Culey, if that's exactly what you just said, then I don't know how this government is gonna solve it when in this government this HNS that caused the problem for you still sits together with you and every Friday raises a hand, and I wouldn't be surprised that Mr. Vrdoljak still drives there with those cars, but you didn't say the problem. So, Mr. Vrdoljak announces on Monday the negotiations of 3 ministers, and here you're saying that he is the co-founder of Đura Djakovic's destruction, and your partner, so he's saying what your government is doing, so I don't know how you're going to solve it if the cause of all these problems is still there with you, here, it's not clear to me alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167400	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167401	The final bill of law... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167402	Mr President, the Club of Representatives of the SDP is asking for a recess before the vote on the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards. In the normal world of tripartite consultations, namely government, trade unions and employers, and in Croatia it is under tripartite consultations with HDZ, HNS and chips on union requirements. That is why we feel it is absolutely necessary to discuss this issue a little bit. In light of the fact that we have a case where teachers have been asking for 6% for a long time, which would cost 350 million kuna, that the prime minister who still has the injured ego said no, but we're going to give everyone a billion and 200 just so we don't please you. When his coalition partners threatened to leave the government, they first talked about how he broke them, that he would throw them out, and then he agreed to 2% in half a year, which is 90 million kuna. So, what I'm saying is that SDP supports the teacher's demands, that the SDP proposes to the government and the prime minister to accept those demands because they are worth much less than they said themselves, to end this situation in schools, and as far as coalition partners are concerned, it is my impression that they agree to as much increase as their ratings are. Now they've agreed to 2% because there's about 2% of their ratings around here somewhere. If they grew to 4%, it would be 4%. Therefore, Mr. President, the SDP Club really thinks that these standards of tripartite talks should be applied first in Croatia so that they can agree to international standards, return to social dialogue, sit at the table with the unions, and this story about the teachers strike should be solved properly, not that parents and teachers and children continue to suffer because the prime minister cannot contain his injured ego. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167403	The apartment will be approved. My colleague Bacic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I presume.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167404	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break so that we, too, under this law, would highlight the importance of tripartite consultations. And we support and advocate talks with both employers and trade unions, which is very important and this government is currently holding talks with trade unions on the topic of collective bargain negotiations. But here I would remind my colleague, Bauk, that this case and the union's request are not about the talks on the document that arises as a result of the government and the union's agreement, but rather about a document that is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm glad that the SDP supports the union's proposal in the light, but I'd like to remind all of us, colleague Voter, I'm asking you to be democratic and miss letting her go. To the end, then. [[Intruder: A colleague, like this, just.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167405	Wait a minute, Comrade Bacic. Stop the time. My colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, you spoke freely, colleague Maras, you spoke far above what the Rules of Procedure allowed, no one came into your word. So be correct enough and decent enough to let others speak as well. I'm asking you nicely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167406	So, I said, Mr. President, I'm very glad that the SDP supports the union's demands in protest. It's just that not long ago, these same educators abolished Christmas, abolished the regression, reduced the base for jubilee awards, abolished transportation, etc., thus showing how much they really cared about teachers and teachers, or educators. Now this subsequent mind of theirs is common when they're in opposition, and while they're in power, they can't solve any union demands. This government has solved all union demands, returned Christmas, returned the regress, returned the Christmas card, paid the regress fee and increased the basics for jubilee awards. Furthermore, it has increased wages by 6.12%, and in the following year it will increase, and all together more than 20%. And with this concession that we said about next year, we're saying that first of all, we're going to solve it further. Regulation on coefficients, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and thus enable further [[Intruder: Thank you.]] an increase in wages. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167407	He approves of taking a break from you. Here's a colleague of Batinić's on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167408	Thank you very much, President. The HNS Club is also doing a consultation on this law, we're looking for a break, but here I am using the opportunity to try my colleagues, my colleague Bauku, even though he knows very well what it was about, what it was talking about, practically yesterday was the coalition's conversation, which is nothing unusual. After all, certain topics have been mentioned. We had no idea in HNS at any point, let alone to do something to take on the role, the one that doesn't belong to us but we've also been very clear back in the last two years and from this pay phone and in the talks at coalition meetings very clearly positioned and pointed out how important the implementation of educational reform was for us, it was a topic yesterday. What I would also like to say is that I don't repeat myself after my colleague Bačić, but I still have some things to mention. Obviously, we're quickly forgetting things, so all this stuff that Bacic said was at the expense of the workers in the universe, it all certainly stands. Furthermore, when you don't have your own ideas, then you reach for the moves or ideas of others, and this lack of ideas by the SDP as regards certain proposals, not only the law here but generally in public space, it's not news, it's been going on for the last three to four years, so I don't blame my colleagues to update certain topics by looking at what others are doing. Although some times in their innovative discussions and ideas, they repeat the old saying "If you have nothing else copy from another" or the old "Dokon pop and goat crosses", so does he.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167409	It's okay to take a break. Comrade Vučetić, please report the same message.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167410	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, independent representatives, SNAGA, I am looking for a ten-minute break in order to warn the public and to consult precisely on the fact that tripartite consultations belong to societies that are beyond feudal logic. How the spirit of feudal logic exists in Croatia, and feudal logic implies that it is not negotiated with trade unions but that it is negotiated with all those interested in political survival, which is both HDZ and HNS. If they are not interested in school for life in this case, and they are educators, I will also show in my own example how this resistance takes place. You won't take me out of the assembly, but I'm most likely the only one in this assembly who's gonna be taken away from the representative's chair because I was on strike. I was on strike as a university teacher, not to raise my salary but to raise wages to all those who were offended by their knowledge, and were offended by their knowledge precisely because there are constant consultations about how the spirit of feudal logic in Croatia will prevail and survive. The spirit of feudal logic denies trade unions as a body representing employees in this case educational workers. The spirit of feudal logic depends on those announced agreements and even in this epiphany of the prime minister who came to the assembly and announced that he would raise everyone's salary to 6.11%). This announcement of the Epiphane was at the level of an associated being is that you should just be humiliated by your HDZ colleagues, because neither you nor you should be established by the HDZ union because you proved by your applause that you were surprised, not consulted, and with the present smiles you prove that you were completely under his authority. Because of the spirit of feudal logic and... the union I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167411	Thank you. And that break will be approved. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167412	Thank you, Vice President. When we talk about negotiations, we need to make it clear that no negotiations have been held here. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most in order to consult at the club about how exactly what colleagues are talking about and what this and next point of negotiations is, that no negotiations have been held here. [[You're looking for a break?]] This was about blackmailing coalition partners. We have been witnessing these days the exit of an affair about the fact that the president of the CNS hired a former head of the Environmental Protection Fund in his fictitious company. Interestingly, this affair has just come out and is likely to have been whispered by someone who asked Ivan Vrdoljak the question. We also witnessed yesterday confirming the indictment to the key HDZ coalition partner Milan Bandic and Peter Pripuz, which is also a form of coercion, and only corrupt people can be coerced. This coalition, consisting of shovels and frauds and which is not a stability as it is presented to the Croatian public and citizens, but is the perfect mugging balance that benefits only the corrupt and interesting structures that hold this government, means that the thieving balance should be exposed and it should be made clear that it was not the negotiations here and that is why the Government did not talk to the trade unions. The government, or Andrej Plenkovic, has forced those already valued and the government rests on those pillars, and no one cares about teachers, teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167413	We'll continue at 12.55 hours. MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] Therefore, I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 77 for and 3 abstentions, have been adopted by the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome fellow Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167415	The Honorable President of HS has been injured by an article. 15 Rules of Procedure, because you have not delivered a decision to the representative, to whom, when under what conditions and on which documents you have assigned the assembly to the EP. The decision on the use of halls clearly states that halls can be given to the use of parties clubs in the European Parliament, it does not exist, there are only clubs of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167416	Fellow Members of Sabolek, therefore, will be informed, will receive everything he has asked for in accordance with the rules, documents, procedures, so that all of this will happen as required by the law and regulations in force in the Assembly. I ask you now to sit down because you will receive a warning because you have misused the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167417	We move to the last item of the agenda today: - Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2018; the discussion was carried out by the Committee on Economy, is proposed by the Government, of course. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We have Mr Zdenko Lucic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167418	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia presents the HS Report on Free Zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2018 in accordance with the Free Zones Act. The data referred to in the report were provided by the users of concessions for the establishment of free zones for areas established in the land area, while for free zones established in the port area the data were supplied by consent holders for the establishment of free zones. The report uses the term ‘entity users’ for both categories. For the sake of integrity, the report also contains a presentation of the legislative framework for the establishment and operation of free zones in Croatia, although the legislative framework in 2018 has not changed. The report briefly shows other features of free zones. In addition, the report shall show the operations of each free zone individually, and the last part of the report shall contain graphic images that give a comparison of operations with previous years with regard to the number of users, employees, income, profits, exports, etc. According to aggregated data in the business of free zones in 2018, a total of 89 users operated in the free zones. For users of free zones, 2885 workers were employed, totalling 1.97 billion kuna or 9.32% more than the previous year. At the level of all free zones, a profit of 150.45 million kuna or 35.74% more was achieved than in the previous period. The share of exports in the total income of free zone users was 51.1%, in port free zones, the share of exports in the total income of users of free zones was significantly higher and was 76%, while only 20% in land-based areas. Exports, including delivery of goods to the EU market and free zones, amount to slightly more than 1 billion kuna, which is 4.33% more than a year ago. The data on the number of free zones, the number of users operating in them, as well as the number of employees, conclude that the business in the free zones is attractive to the users operating in third countries. As an important change in the business of free zones in Croatia during 2018, we point out that in 2018 the amendments to the Law on the promotion of free zone entrepreneurship infrastructure became part of the entrepreneurship infrastructure and that as one of the categories of entrepreneurship complete institutions. With already existing forms such as development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, business incubators and business accelerators. The Government of the Republic of Croatia believes that presenting this report to the Croatian Assembly contributes to a better understanding of the free zones system, especially in the possibilities it offers as well as according to the rules of business for users of free zones and, consequently, proposes to adopt the 2018 Free Zones Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167419	Thank you, too. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167420	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary, I have no doubt about this information which is stated to be correct and it is all OK, but we are all aware that by entering the EU and this large common market that the original meaning of free zones has changed or is no longer so attractive and that in 2018, this law has been passed that allows them to become supporting institutions. However, I am interested in the following, with these reports, whether these business zones have brought in any plans and if you have any insight into these plans of further business because here in this data it is visible that only a few of them make it from 2% to 15% on the European market and the rest are actually exporting to third countries, which is the intensity and they make sense, but all of these others in my view are the problem and do they have any plan that they would deliver to you in the ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167421	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167422	So, the business of free zones or the business of entrepreneurs working in the free zones system is actually their own will and they see the benefit of such a kind of business because it is a slightly higher cost than that they are in a normal business zone. So the free zone system is good, it is intended for companies, i.e. entrepreneurs that operate or export to third countries and they, means countries outside the EU, and they actually benefit most from the business in the free zones. As regards plans of free zones and users themselves, all these best free zones continue to operate because entrepreneurs have a need for such services or to be in the free zone system. And what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done means what it has introduced into the definition of entrepreneurship support and institutions to further assist users.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167423	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167424	Thank you, Vice President. Here I welcome this topic, namely, on the Committee on Economy, was the dilemma of whether we should refer this topic to the debate in the assembly or whether it is enough to discuss it on the parent Committee on the Economy. I have thought and then and now it was good to talk about this topic in the assembly, that there is little economic theme in the assembly, and that we need to talk more often about the economy, about the support for the economy. And this is one bright example of how in terms of raising the entrepreneurial climate and creating entrepreneurship infrastructure well done with the zones. And my question to you, of course, is that we're going to adopt this report, in which way we're going to help these exactly 4 or 5 as much as we have left on the continent of free zones. We see that there are some 89 business entities that work there, that it is 2,000 and 800 workers, how do we enable them to make business easier to increase exports and what measures of tax policy do it to continue to be attractive to operate in free zones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167425	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167426	Thanks for asking, that's a good question. So it is certainly in the interest, i.e. our goal is to attract as much investment in the Republic of Croatia as possible and to the areas of free zones. Continental Croatia as regards larger production investments. What we are doing further means doing changes and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act in order to fund new investments, new investments in modernisation. And as far as these land, free zones are concerned, they are most of the meaning of Osijek, Vukovar, in areas where we as the Ministry are higher, and we are giving greater support to entrepreneurs who invest in areas with a higher unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167427	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. The first is Mr. Miro Bulj in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr. Davor Loncar in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167428	... free zones it contributes to the promotion of free zones due to its specificity and rules of business for the users in them. [[Specially enabled.]] This Free Zone Business Report regulates the establishment of the same business. As far as the data on user business is concerned, they are listed in the report in a way that is comparable to each other for the last 5 years. When we talk about reports like this, there's always a question of whether or not a business zone of this type. What I can responsibly confirm is that business zones offer various models for businessmen who, in cooperation with local administration units, have a successful and operational purpose. I've said so many times that the businessmen are timid, they're looking for a location where they can get the best benefits for their work, which are the conditions, the time, because every day for every farmer is important. So time will allow them to have built up as soon as possible... to get all the necessary permits so that they can implement their projects as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here in this report we have data that is important and they say that we have a better opportunity to offer interested investors whose every expedient offer is important for investment and employment. So in the area of all free zones, we have about 3,000 employees, we have revenues of about 2.5 billion, which is an indicator of what they mean for the overall contribution to the development of the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Business zones are not only spaces that are specified detailed plans, urban plans or infrastructure, but according to the applicable legislation must be specifically built, marked, have data and services such as forwarding, customs, police and fire departments. Looking at all business areas and especially free zones, we have gained enough experience by entering the EU through this few years, which is what a businessman must have for his own purposes in order to freely compete on the EU market. We certainly still need to find ways to make it easier for economics regarding concessions and better regulations, etc. This report in the last few years gives us that we can track the way in which the zone in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether it is on land or in the coastal port area, operates what investments are, what is the number of employees and what percentages of exports and production. Croatia is specific because we have contact with European countries because of its geographical position that enables investment and therefore I am convinced that they are free zones like others, I can offer a new wave of investment that is necessary for greater development of the Republic of Croatia. So in the report as such, we can practically speak to the one in recent years as indicators of what just happened on the ground, how much value we have in business zones that are not small and that will produce greater results from year to year. The HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167429	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Žarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167430	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, together we are all aware that the objective of establishing free zones was actually to revive production activity and create a better framework for entrepreneurs through numerous benefits offered by such zones and such a regime of management from common infrastructure, good links with all the institutions of a secure business environment of customs and tax relief. It is important to note that Croatia has this advantage because of its geotransport position, that it has enabled entrepreneurs to operate through land-based business zones and through the ports of free zones and thus opened access to the million market for consumers through activities in port areas. Today, 20 years from the existence of domestic free zones, we see from this report that out of 11 free zones are currently active 8 of them. The Kukuljanovo zone is inactive while 2 zones are currently in liquidation and one in Krapina-Zagorska, one in Split-Dalmatia. With respect to other EU members, we still have one significant number of business zones, free zones, for example Germany, France and Finland have 2 free zones, but as long as someone within these business zones is operating free zones, as long as he sees his economic interest, I believe that such an offer must be maintained and that we must adapt to the needs of the economy and the needs of the market as a whole. The fact is that by entering the EU, we became part of the Union's internal market, that the trade in goods is no longer treated as exports, so the free zones stopped being as attractive as they were so far, especially in those entrepreneurs and economic operators operating with the EU market, because they in some way lost some of the benefits through customs and tax treatment they had but still they are still interesting for all those operating against third countries and their potential should be seen there. The aim, of course, is to attract some new users to the market of third countries and to maintain the maximum capacity available today and the free business zones. This report also shows that despite the trend of user declines as I said, they have their potential since total exports of all free zones last year increased by 4.33% compared to the year before and while the total passages of all users of business zones increased by slightly more than 9%. Some business zones, as I said, and those in my Krapina-Zagorje County are mainly in the process of liquidation because they were business zones used to drink everything for storage purposes, there was no production activity in them and exactly such activity ensures greater income than the one projected exclusively in storage spaces and renting such spaces. Finally, it would mention what is already mentioned in the replica of a colleague from the HNS that free zones are part of the overall economic infrastructure as an entrepreneurial support institution and it should be considered that these areas should also be included in the use of EU funds in terms of the reconstruction and upgrade of these business zones and that this is precisely possible to amend the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. In this sense, I commend this report, business zones, free zones in Croatia are still alive, Croatia has certain comparative advantages in terms of exactly such supporting institutions and while there is market will and market interest, it should continue to support and develop them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167431	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. At least she was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167432	... Chairman. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Well, dear fellow Tušek, since you're coming from Krapina-Zagorje County, you'd just refer to the entrepreneurial zone in your county that's in the winding-up phase, I don't know if it's already finished at this time and what you're saying is that lately it's been used a little bit more than 60% to 70% for the warehouse, it's been empty, it's fully equipped, there's no more production or storage now, and it's just on the trail of what's as a supportive institution of entrepreneurial infrastructure, which you're planning on doing, do you have any knowledge specifically in your entrepreneurial zone, thank you. In fact, in a free zone, I believe in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167433	Answer, Mr. Tušek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167434	So I have no concrete knowledge in what sense is known in Krapina-Zagorje County to develop, most of the production capacities of Krapina-Zagorje County are directed towards EU markets so that the largest economic operators are concentrated there at least from that part, so from your part of Croatia you come from what is commendable in some way and whether those resources that exist in these areas could attract some other investments that are turned to third markets except here storage facilities that are partly used plus freight and everything else that was present there is difficult to talk about. The market only defines, the businessmen define their own interests. If they have them they will in some way and realize them but that does not mean that the situation in Krapina-Zagorje County is no longer accepted as it was in time until now that such a form of institution has no value and that they do not need to be further supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167435	Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167436	Vice President. Comrade Tušek, in your presentation, you mentioned that models should be found and that I support you, to come up with models to enable employers working in areas to win third markets outside the EU because we see that only 20% of entrepreneurs are made, they generate revenues from exports and in continental areas. So we mustn't leave them alone on the market but the state must stand by them and find models of their goods and facilitate business in third markets. And also to those companies that were in the free zone system like... Industry in Đura Djakovic in Slavonski Brod allows certain privileges to continue with investments and work even though it no longer operates within the free zone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that state must be a partner to such entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167437	Answer, Mr. Shower.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167438	Dear colleague, I'm more prone to the liberal economy so these... in some form, it is not particularly against me, I am not particularly fond of you, I understand from which positions you speak and I understand which economic operators you are talking about and in any case the state should stand behind them because it is some of the strategic and capital economic operators in the Republic of Croatia, one of which you mentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in total, the better the state gets the less involved in the business of our economies and entrepreneurs, we create some kind of framework and the market will do its job. I come from a region that has always been oriented to export, produce and create new values and, however, with almost no state interventions, we have preserved one very healthy, one vital economy in the Republic of Croatia, which is the economy of northwestern Croatia where no state subsidies or billions of kuna have been pumped, but people have actually created new values and worked themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167439	Mr. Sasa Djujic is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am also supporting this debate at the plenary session today. I think it's good to talk about it, that a little bit of the citizens and the people who are following this debate are getting closer to what the free zones are. So we have heard here that in the past, especially since Croatia's entry into the EU, there is also an interest in working in business areas. However, it should be noted that they have played their part in the log in the work so far, and of these 11 here some are going into liquidation. I'd also focus a little on these four ports of free zones that even kept our ports working when they're on their own, let's say a little paws so that the business through the free zones in the port area has helped both survival and port in that area. Although they have been used in part and used as a storage unit even though they are designed to be primarily a production plant there. But I think your report is good, I personally support it, and I think that as long as business zones make profits and we see that, from your report, profits in the area of free zones continue to grow, that they are sustainable and that there is a large number of people working there, until then I think we should keep them as a business model. I think the simple market and the need to do business in free zones will do their part. So when they no longer need the market and the economies they're going to start one by one in liquidation as they're going now, let's say these three. And I think it's inevitable, but as long as it goes like this, it needs to budge and encourage entrepreneurs who can achieve some of their interests through the work of free zones to keep doing it. In any case, here is the support for this report, and I think it shows that the presence of free zones in the Republic of Croatia is clearly still justified and that we should continue with this practice. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167441	Thank you, too. Replica, Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167442	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary, Your Honor. In Croatia there are 11 free zones of which are 8 active, 2 are in liquidation, one is inactive and this is our zone up in Kukuljanovo. Tell me since in areas there is more than one transport activity, storage of goods, encouraging some development investment centres, what do you think about production and should we force production in these free zones because there is a very small percentage of production? Would that produce results and contribute to the survival of free zones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167443	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167444	Absolutely I'm always for production in all areas both business and free. And that's why they're imagined as areas where production would take place. It's rare not only in free zones but also in business areas. So here you mentioned this one on Kukuljanova which is the largest business zone of Rijeka practically, i.e. in the area of the town of Bakar but this is the Rijeka business zone most of the activities there are commercial, therefore commercial and storage. I would be happier if there was more of that production part there, because that is the future of some long-term economic activity in the area. Because trade, storage, storage is only tied up so with some economic processes that go when there is a need to store it is happening but the same thing is with trade and production is the only one that guarantees some kind of long-term. So I always advocate production.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167445	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right. And in the end, Mr. Arsen Bauk will speak finally on behalf of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167446	I thank Mr. Vice President, I didn't mean to report on this subject, but some events in the last 24 hours have inspired me to do this speech. By definition, the concept of a free zone represents an area or space with special working conditions with special benefits. We learned yesterday that this assembly has been turned into a free zone and has begun to rent for political parties to have, to have special benefits in terms of their meetings. I am in the subject of Mr. Vice President. Okay. [[I'm sorry?]] So as far as the free zone of this assembly is concerned :......... the situation is the following, when the ruling party rents a meeting hall will pay 42 thousand 500 kuna and when the opposition representative sticks a sticker in a free zone called the assembly that the DIP declared to the office room will pay twice as much, 86 thousand kuna. [[Wait, wait,.../]] So the meeting organised by HDZ is worth twice as much as Maras' sticker. Therefore, it is a greater scandal to declare the assembly an office space and a free zone than to rent it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167447	I don't know if you were talking about the subject, but you were talking about it so now we can conclude. Can I help you with your article?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167448	Article 239, so you should have warned your colleague Bauk that he had not carefully followed the debate so far because he knew that his colleague Maras, his label, belonged to production unlike HDZ, which is basically storage, so Maras' sticker is more valid in the free zone than the HDZ meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167449	And what do you propose and what do you expect?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167450	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167451	You want me to give him a warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167453	Mr. Bauk, you have a warning on Mr. Djujic's request. Thank you very much. Tomorrow, enough, I won't give anymore, but there's been a lot of circus, there's been a lot of circus. You want more circuses? ... Here you go, so there's 3, 4 of us here anyway, so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167454	Mr. Vice President, Article 239 was injured because you could not give me a warning because the Rules of Procedure did not state Sasa Djujic as a reason for the warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167455	Well, then I'll give you a warning because I say you deserve a warning. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167456	I'm proud to accept your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167457	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m., you see how Mr Djujic and I agree, tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. we continue with the report on the work of the Committee on European Affairs in 2018 and then after that is just another item on the agenda and that is the report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2018. Thank you very much and goodbye. The session was interrupted at 14.58 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-24-0.u167458	Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2018 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted in 2018. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 94 for, 1 abstention and 9 against the accepted conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body.
