ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u124040	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we've heard a lot about sovereignty lately. Some claim it while others dispute their sovereignty and never end their story. You know that saying, "Who's itchy, he's scratching." And that's exactly how our Prime Minister makes sense, just as he only knows it, all of it, is that he's doing his research, he's doing an et orbi from like to explain to all of us what sovereignty is. Gentlemen, my dear sovereignty is incompatible with those who are unable to live in tolerance to others and different, and especially those who are not aware of the need for order as well as work, which are the basis of any sovereignty, so if you want the freedom itself. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, sovereignty as you explain it is incompatible with you as long as your policy is based on electoral fraud, votes of at least 150 thousand who have been encouraged by the politics of your government and your party on fraud and fraud have reached the right to vote in the Republic of Croatia. Not to be confused, I'm talking about the singing buses, which are bringing voters from neighbouring countries, who literally agree to your fraud because of the battle for bread cover. Any sovereignty is incompatible even with as long as you and Mr. Prime Minister, as long as you ignore the process of passing laws into the Republic of Croatia. You say that only 9 laws were passed by emergency procedures during 2017 and 2018, the parliamentary services say 149. Mr. Prime Minister, you're not telling the truth. Sovereignism is incompatible and with your reaction to the pro-fascist steps of the Tajanini or whatever it is already called as well as with the support of those who do not respect other people's sovereignty. Mr. Prime Minister and you who are implementing this policy must know that you've gone too far, that you don't have the right to do this just because you have enough hands. You bring down the Croatian mentality to some of your petty, small-town, interest-bearing mentality of party similarities. Everything you do is a force without any empathy towards others and different people who are increasingly leaving this wonderful living space. So literally Croatia is becoming a state only to your electoral body. Mr. Prime Minister, the sense of injustice in Croatia is too great, so until you give up stealing from the elections, playing democratic procedures, and also fascist rhetoric, regardless of power, size, influence you and your party are small that you cannot be smaller. You seem like petty thieves and cheaters, change, you have no right to be who you are, you have no right to be. After your silence on my long-term and well-meaning conclusion is simple, elections in the Republic increasingly depend on people who do not live in it and on the political half-world. The legality of elections and parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia has been seriously and consciously questioned. It is inadmissible and I will do everything but everything to protect the rights of Croatian citizens in this matter, which includes, of course, addressing relevant institutions outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u124041	Now a respected colleague, Maria Puh, is on behalf of the club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u124042	I would like to thank the esteemed president, dear colleagues and colleagues. The media are making a sensation. Children's play, little incident, students with various difficulties. It happens, it's nonsense. These terms and these phrases that I have now listed are the expressions and statements of those who are obliged to protect children. The statements of those who need to be closest to children, who need to help their children when they are in trouble, but unfortunately these are sentences that justify the violence that is happening in schools, the violence that is happening among children. Unfortunately, almost every week we have a bigger case that ends in the media, with parents seeing that they can't solve this problem with schools anymore, and with children as the last of some defense mechanisms, they call for media and bring cases to the media, and that clearly tells us that we have a very big problem. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, peer violence experienced over three quarters of children. 80% of them are exposed to almost daily verbal violence, 72% of children are exposed to electronic violence. 27% of them suffer violence from their peers every day. And of them only 16% ask for help, only 16% dare to talk about what's happening to him and then what's going on? Those sentences I started my speech with. He also said very well that we should establish certain mechanisms, identifying violence when children do not recognise and strengthen institutions, strengthening services that are required to care for children and which are obliged to protect children when there is violence. In this House in 2017, we declared the National Day of Fight against peer violence, which is held every last Wednesday of February. This practice in the world has existed since 2007 when a boy was harassed in Canada because he came to school in a pink shirt and in support of his colleague the next day, all his classmates came in the same shirts and gave him support. I want these things to happen in Croatia. I want children who experience violence to have support from their peers, to have support from all the services they are in charge and to have support from their parents and everything to do to prevent this violence. We have made a decision to declare the National Day of Fight against peer violence. We're passing various laws that go in that direction, we're also making regulations, but I think the best thing and the best way to stop that spiral of violence is to go from ourselves and be a good example. I often wonder when I sit in this assembly and listen to what happens, what citizens actually think about, how we talk here, what they think after all, and children who watch journals, who sometimes watch and transfer the Parliament. Insulting the talker, insinuating the word, disrupting the session, disrespecting the rules and authority. What example do we set for our fellow citizens? What example do we give children from this highest home in the Republic of Croatia? We tell them, in fact, in a way that they can be violent, that they can insult others because after all, it ends up in journals, and it sort of takes place. I call on all my colleagues to think carefully about our actions, to conduct this in all our discussions, the debate in HS should be debated with arguments and debates with facts. Don't argue with insults because once again I remind you, what kind of example we provide, children absorb it all like sponges and start from themselves. Let's not just have today's day of combating peer violence, let's set a good example because unfortunately, I'm afraid we're going to fail and we've failed as a society if we don't find a way to contain, both peer and all the other violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u124043	On behalf of the club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent, esteemed colleague Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u124044	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. So far, on behalf of the club, I have never personally responded to the situation that the speaker of this HS is being deceived into the pay phone of the City of Zagreb City Assembly. Namely, any argument cannot treat the complexes of candidates for mayor who are also parliamentary representatives, which, in conflict with the mayor, Mr Milan Bandic did not receive citizens' trust. And it's not even the turn that this pay phone is being misused in that way. However, when a notor lie was given from this pay phone, as counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash did about the People's Club in Kino Europa, which Mr Boris T. Matic himself lied about, he said that it was, that some newspapers had published, that it was not his threat to receive a lawsuit from Mr Milan Bandic. As a notorous lie, so I'm only responding to a notorous lie, I don't want to abuse this pay phone about anything else. Look, if that's the case, then I don't know if that lie could go to Gunja as far as the folk club is concerned, or maybe it's the wish of a self-respected representative. But not to waste your time or your time, it is a shame to actually spend time on someone's promotion in the elections that follow us for the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u124045	Thank you, dear colleague Vardi. With this, we've exhausted all the reports about the club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130338	This brings us to the end of the discussion of clubs, now we move to the agenda, the first point is: - Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2017. The report shall be submitted by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures under Art. 18. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, and the Government delivered opinions. I would ask the applicant to give us an additional explanation, with us is respected Goran Matesic, president of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130339	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable representatives of HS are before you a 15 report on the work of the State Commission as a body that corresponds directly to HS and this report, which applies to 2017. It actually has several characteristics. One thing is that this was the first year of applying the new Public Procurement Act, though, 40% of the cases, the appeal cases were conducted in the regime of earlier laws. The second circumstance of this report is the further improvement of e-procurement and digitisation of public procurement including the appeal procedure, the characteristics of also stable working conditions of the State Commission, and the initiative of the State Commission to edit the institutional framework of the Commission itself, which took place in later years. A key part of the report, as always, is the assessment of the state of supply including legal protection and there are the first experiences in the application of the law. From this standard part of the report I would highlight the financial business, the total plan for 2017 was €9.242.00, made at 98.30%. In financial operations, it should be mentioned that the compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure, which is the revenue of the state budget, has significantly exceeded the budget of the State Commission itself. Human potentials are approximately standard as in earlier years, this should be said that employees of the State Commission have a multi-annual internship in the institution, on average 7 years, testifying to the continuity of human resources and affecting the high expertise needed. Since the anti-corruption action of the State Commission, I would say that it is related to the transparency and availability of the work of the State Commission because all decisions are published on the website, which means that the whole legal practice is known and publicly available to all, and since the application of the new law and decision of administrative courts in disputes on public procurement rights. Furthermore, the register of appeal cases is publicly available on the website, which represents a very high standard of transparency combined with Croatian courts. As far as the public works are concerned, it is precisely the number of reviews of the State Commission's 860,000 site in the 17th year that this service is quite common, decisions are delivered to the parties by publication on the website and most often reviews are carried out from a smart phone. I would now say something about clean statistics, in the 17th year, the State Commission had 1043 appeals cases, of course, the number of them publicly purchased less concessions, while the complaints against the public private partnership were not at all. Compared to the published procurement procedures, some nearly 10% of the public procurement procedures have resulted in complaints. As for the number of complaints received they were looking historically in recent years in a slight fall which would, which is quite unusual for the application of the new law. The new law has always resulted in an increase in the number of complaints, which should be analysed in the coming years. As regards complaints under the stages of the proceedings, an increase in the number of complaints on documentation is seen, which was in fact the aim of legislation that stimulated this type of complaint by reducing the compensation, which leads to more quality documentation, and thus this more high quality public procurement procedures. As regards the structure of the decisions, we note a significant, significant, relative growth of the complaints adopted, that is 52%, which is the result of the conclusion of the application of the new law, and in particular provisions on the conduct of the official duty. And when we came to official duty, it should be said that from here to 34% in 34 decisions the state commission corrected, sanctioned by acting on official duty. Of the most frequent injuries that have been sanctioned, we see obligations, mandatory disfellowshipping persons and criteria for selecting an economic operator. As regards the duration of the appeal procedure, something which is, in fact, why there is a state commission, and in Croatia the legislator has not been defined for jurisdiction, the trend of short, short deadlines in decision-making continues, the average time from the date of completion of the appeal case to the decision-making process is 14 days, which includes making, making and publishing that decision. The average time from receiving an appeal to making a decision is gross, including communication with the parties is 36 days. From the next paragraph, we conclude, which talks about the EU market's compatibility, says that the state commission is one of the faster or more effective ones. As an auxiliary tool of this report is a discount from the contracting authority and a list of complainants with a number of appeal procedures that can be analysed. As far as the most common reasons for the complaint are concerned, they repeat themselves year after year, and that is actually the standard, so it repeats itself in this report. Out of the total fees paid for starting the procedure which is the revenue of the state budget this year we recorded 16 billion, 16 million kuna which far exceeds the budget of the state commission itself, in fact by 7 almost 8 million kuna. The decisions of the State Commission are later questioned before the Administrative Court and here a presentation of what is happening in proceedings, in cases, in disputes on public procurement before the Administrative Courts. In '17. A year of 112 lawsuits seem to have been filed, which means almost 12% of the decisions by the State Commission are being reviewed before the Administrative Court and, however, because of the length of the resolution of these administrative disputes, this report was currently recorded in the case of a 261-year-old dispute before the Administrative Court which you have here in view of some disputes even from '11. years that are not the solution. The duration of the administrative dispute on the right of public procurement in front of Croatian courts is an average of 566 days, 660 days ago and 227 days before the High Administrative Court. From statistics, decision-making structures of first-degree courts, in 60% of cases, confirm the decisions of the state commission in almost 20% return to the re-trial and change 5% and make their own decisions. The State Commission as a prosecutor in these disputes has been reporting legal medicines, so it's in '17. said dissatisfaction with the rulings of the Court of First Instance 23 appeals and 4 extraordinary legal remedies before the DORH initiative, which then goes before the Supreme Court. As regards this assessment of the legal protection situation that has resulted in previous periods and, in order to assist the legislator and this assembly in the adoption of new regulations, it should be said in this assessment here, it is said that in '17. Almost 40 cases a year, since the case was resolved by the state commission under the regime of the old regulation, which is logic, this which is the logic of this job and seen, the changes observed as a result of the application of the new law are actually to be found that the highly adopted suggestions that have come from the practice of the state commission in the adoption of that law since 2016. In this report, we reflect on the 4 most important papers passed by the law, which is to potentiate the most economically favourable offers as criteria, the European Single Purchase Documentation, the Institute of Appeals on the procurement and handling of official duties. As regards the most economically favourable offer at first, a purely mechanical trend is seen using this criterion in a way because the legislator also allowed the price to go beyond 90%, opening up such a bonding path in the application of the most economically favourable offer, and most often at the beginning it was 90% of the price, and 10% of the different simple criteria, such as the warranty or payment deadline. In the later phase of that year and the following year, there is a growth, a positive increase in use and other different criteria, however, it should be said that the contracting authorities do not make a significant decision, they are insecure in relation to the formation of these criteria, which is understandable since the practice so far has not paved the way for this. As far as this criterion is concerned, in any case, it is expected that individual resolution ministries in their resolutions will develop certain specific criteria for selecting and stalking so that after some time, it actually happens in other comparative systems and that, after some time, it becomes public good or something that was publicly used. The European Single Documentation is a personal statement that represents an economic entity that has been subject to preliminary evidence and has been presented by the EU in the directive as one tool to speed up simplification and cost-effectiveness of the process, which in its application has caused some changes because it has been a change and certain problems, but in 2017 we did not have too many arguments to assess positive or negative so as you have seen in this report, and the European Commission has abstained from some final assessment leaving in a later period to assess it. It should be said that in small procurement procedures, the contracting authority does not have to request the delivery of evidence other than that statement and there is a possibility of manipulation. This report recommended that a more detailed standard would be required, however, the regulation was adopted, and this happened to some extent. It should be said that in 2018, the development of digitisation took place, so in 2018, this is the 2017 report, so to date there has been a networking of the customer registers, which represents a higher standard in this domain. The complaint on the documentation, the reduction in the fee, the complaint on the documentation, it is a welcome effect the client wanted to achieve. True in those complaints, those bidders who do not have the conditions in the documentation are trying to bring them in line with those they have, however, to a good extent, in 20% of the cases, the complaints that are being adopted in this segment are saying that this tool has achieved its purpose. At the end of the procedure under the official duty that was reintroduced in this law, which represents control, more protection of public interest also resulted in an increase in the number of complaints adopted, resulting in the fact that this statistics on the annulment of decisions by the State Commission was quite large in 2017, 55% and that, in later times, it was slightly reduced which resulted simply in users adopting the practice of the State Commission. And finally, the assessment of legal protection itself. It should be said that in the last 4 years there has been a decline, a constant drop in appeal cases, is similar in some EU countries such as Germany, Austria and Slovenia, and this has raised the question of access to the right to appeal in these countries, the question is whether too strict criteria, fees and other ways have been denied someone's right to appeal, but it is simply an argument as an argument. The ongoing request for a complaint procedure to which the State Commission is constantly exposed by the user could lead, should be said, that it could question both the expertise and the objectivity of the control and also the quality of the fact that lately, the possibility of using European structural investment funds has been significantly more complex than before. It should be noted that the comparative experience of some Member States such as Hungary and Poland with regard to control mechanisms at the stage of the execution of the contract achieves good results, and this is an example that should be considered. The conclusions on the effects of the application of the Public Procurement Act 2016 on legal protection are therefore the following, an increased number of complaints on documentation, a reduced number of decisions rejecting the complaint because the possibility of handling fees and what we have already talked about earlier reports has been reduced. The number of repealing decisions resulting from official duties has been increased, it is noted that users have adopted the practice of the State Commission, and in the complaint allegations themselves, highlight something that is normised as a major breach of the procedure. It should also be stated on constitutional and legal protection that in 2017 there was no legal protection against the decisions of the State Commission because the High Administrative Court submitted an initiative to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the two articles of that law which established the jurisdiction of that court, that we know that the Constitutional Court rejected the initiative, however, the consequence that some hundred cases worth nearly 2 billion stood and did not resolve. This would be the State Commission's 2017 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130340	I thank the Secretary of State. We have 12 or 13 replicas, but before that, we have a request for a break. Here, you asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break to consult within the club regarding public procurement procedures. There is one institution in the Republic of Croatia that has a lot of budget funds, called HRT, over a billion kuna budget, our citizens are being paid, there in whatever ways the procurement procedures are taking place, and that is what we need to talk clearly about here, in order to eventually turn this television into a party TV of HDZ that does business in the way that Prime Minister Plenkovic pictured it, so our diameter has ambition as Mr. Vukic in Serbia to edit the main, public service, which citizens pay 80 kn every month. And then in style... People organise presses where 30 come and accuse Croatian political pressure advocates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they say they haven't sued their reporters, and people have said it themselves. that they are sued and that HRT is asking them for money, it is Croatian television today. [[Invader President: Comrade Maras return to the topic, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130342	Stop the time of your colleague Marasa, please stop the time. So, the topic is public procurement, you've entered this, the request for a break with public procurement, after which you stopped talking about public procurement, you're talking about HRT. ... Wait a minute, let me tell you what the break is, Article 3 says, the break is specified by this Rules of Procedure for the meeting and consultation of the Club of Representatives on the item of the established agenda of the Assembly session. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll give you, just to finish, so you're breaking the Rules of Procedure now and I warn you not to do it, now go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130343	I don't know, do you realize, Mr. President, that HRT has over a billion kunas to do public procurement there, and that the SDP Representatives' Club should consult on this, which is why this public procurement takes place under the people sent there by HDZ to build a party television. This is an absolutely important debate, and it is important that people hear that at this point there is no public service, but the HDZ far-sightedness on Prisavlje headed by Bačić and those companies who sat there yesterday with him at the press. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130344	Comrade Maras, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, you are fully aware and I will not give you a warning now, because you have already received today's warning, so I can see that it doesn't bother you at all, but please, let's stick to the order. It's clearly defined here what a break is and I'll always give a break when it's connected to the agenda point, but what you were saying, it doesn't matter, you used public procurement to talk about something else. ... All right, so, well, you said what you said, I won't give a break because there's no need, because there's no need, because you don't have to consult about what you didn't get into being, I can, I can. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can certainly, it is my duty, my duty, and you, if you think I have made a mistake, should address the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130345	Mr. President, it is your duty to respect the Rules of Procedure, you have violated the Rules of Procedure, where the Club of Representatives has the right to a 10-minute recess, it says in the Rules of Procedure, you cannot judge it, in the way you want it. So I had the right to a 10-minute break, Mr. President, to explain what, you're going to tell the SDP Club that they have nothing to consult about, that there's no reason why you don't have that right? Well, you have no right to reason that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130346	Here, the time has come for you, so you're constantly breaking the rules of procedure, you're doing it on purpose, you're causing a debate here about something that's not a topic, so the topic is public procurement, not the state of the HRT, and for that reason I won't grant you a break. I let you say what you let me say. I even let you say what you say, so you can't say I won't let you talk, but you're breaking the rules of procedure. Then let's go with the replicas, first of all, dear colleague Bully, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130347	Thank you very much. Public procurement is from this statement... procurement of one of the key and most problematic problems for development in the Republic of Croatia, so look, 52% of public procurement is meant to be annulled by the basis of complaints. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, look at those results, here's HRT, Your Honor, my colleague Maras is right, HRT 78% is not available for public procurement. Look at Croatian roads 44%, Elektroprivreda 59%, Croatia water 91%, the city of Split 100%, all the means of public procurement rejected, cancelled. And most of all, in the selection decisions, which means that development is being prevented from all levels, local, regional, state-owned, the development is being halted and competition is being destroyed by furniture of public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130348	Thank you. Would you like to respond? State Secretary, or President of the Public Procurement Commission, would you like to respond from the scene? Do you know, do you know the procedure here in the Croatian Parliament? So you can respond to the replica if you want. You don't want to. Okay. Then let's go to another replica, it's a colleague of Sladolev's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130349	Dear President of the Commission, how important public procurement is, the example of the City of Zagreb, therefore, says in this report that the number of items received was 116... 107 and 44% adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, the City of Zagreb, the total number of published procedures and the client is 917 to mean the City of Zagreb is, in fact, the most public procurement, and we have an example with which Most went public, that the City of Zagreb, in the financial depth of billions and 400 million kuna. So, the City of Zagreb is otherwise known for its stone doors, and for these pillars that are being set, one column costs 100 euros, so how much is the correlation between public procurement and the loss of city budgets in cities and counties?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130350	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130351	Thank you very much. Dear MPs comment on this list of contracting authorities with 5 and more complaints, which was given in the display, which was in the early years, in the conclusions he was able to place dilemmas. So here is the number of cases which have been lodged and the number of complaints adopted, but should also be compared with the number of total procurement procedures which, therefore, are very complex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130352	Now it's all yours, Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130353	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, this morning from a statement by the minister on the radio, the Croatian radio, it was not clear to the end. Please, if you can answer this, it's about 2 billion kuna investment in the Peljesk Bridge. It is clear to me that, according to this invitation to tender, it was carried out in 2016, so it is carried out according to the old laws, so in two degrees, so at least I realized. You are now saying here, that information I did not know that the Constitutional Court rejected the request of the High Administrative Court on the unconstitutional nature of these provisions, so everything behind 2017 is taking place under a new procedure. There are things that should have been settled under the new law in 30 days. The minister today said that the Peljek Bridge, that you would resolve, would return to the state commission of the appeal. What about these complaints now, it's 85% of the funds we get from European funds? Is the Republic of Croatia in danger that if these frogs are eventually adopted that they must return that money? Here's a short while and later in the debate there'll be an opportunity to give you more... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130354	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130355	There are several different things in your inquiry that need to be separated. The Peljeski bridge, the construction of the mainland bridge - Peljasac has made a decision, it is subject to earlier law, that law from, this last one that is now. Therefore, the legal protection after the state commission was secured in the old way, which means that the complaint was made to the Administrative Court in Zagreb. And this administrative dispute lies before the Administrative Court in Zagreb. And he will be resolved when the administrative court makes a decision. As for this thing that you said was waiting, it is also that it is a dispute about access roads, about access roads because it is something other than the Pelješki bridge, it is access roads and it is happening in the regime of the new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130356	Thank you. We're going to a fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130357	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Matesic, of course, we have the purchases that take place, we have the complaints that come to you, you're reading about these complaints, right? However, when we look at the State Audit report there we have a group of purchases that actually do not take place in accordance with the procedures we should, so they are not in the context of open procedures, but it is shown that it is going to go secretly and the health sector has shown that it is the most relevant. It's a good question what we can do with the Public Procurement Act. It was first an old law that was too complex, where it limits a lot of things, it went to the lowest price that turned out to be bad. We've made a new law, we've opened up space, but we can see there's a group that's not even good for them. So they still haven't defined the criteria for choosing the most economically favourable offer. But here we have a problem that they don't want to implement any kind of procurement by any law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130358	I didn't realize what you're asking me to do, but if you ask me about law enforcement, then that's what's in this report. We are now discussing the '17s and the very period in which the regulation was applied was relatively, it was relatively short and there were not enough appeal cases to talk about some recommendations. I think in the 18th year, we'll have some more concrete recommendations, and that's when the law will be applied. However, it should not be expected only from a state commission that settles about 10% of disputes, so from the total number. So we should also think about other protective instruments, we have ex Sante and ex post control that also have some of their own, experience and some key ministries that are actually most active in applying public procurement procedures in ESI funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130359	Thank you, thank you. Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130360	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, the impression of corrupt actions in perception, you've heard, about citizens, contributes to public procurement. However, if we compare legal protection related to the EU, the state has actually received and is most effective and has the best grades. So much for how they look at these things. The State Commission has actually created one organisational and technical condition related to the electronic complaint. However, given your human potential, given the equipment of the state commission itself, tell me when a complete digitisation of public procurement procedures could happen, let's say so without paper. Here's to the shortest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130361	Thank you. Dear Mr. Goran Matesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130362	Thank you for that question. And we are largely ahead of this, before this final solution, of course for this final solution are needed a) material resources and it takes some period of implementation and akomodation. And I think that within some period of no more than a year we can go on full without a paper appeal even though at this stage we are technologically quite prepared for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130363	I thank Mr. Matesic. Next replica, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130364	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Matešić, the table on page 23, 24 is one of a summary, so a summary, summary of everything. However, just one suggestion, the number of items received may be to put as much as with the total number of items of purchase because we see that certain colleagues do not understand, of course you need to sink a little and know how to read the table, that's one thing. The second thing, it would be very interesting, I think that in the previous years it was also related to the financial sums of total purchases if I believe that they are available to you and how particularly in the appeal cases how difficult they were financially. Then there could be a far better debate and perhaps we wouldn't, let's just say so, and the conclusions would be false. And further, when you look at the number of complaints, it's increased to documentation, which is the lowest rate of the one that pays just maybe a suggestion for a new law to rise and so forth. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130365	Thank you. Mr. Matesic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130366	Well, of course, thank you for that suggestion, but you're a witness and these senior parliamentary representatives to, that, that this report, that this table is relatively sometimes misread, the numbers are here, the percentages are accurate, they're based on pure statistics, and now, this table is being completed precisely because of the prevention of these, the conclusions that I'm talking about, but we can think about expanding this table.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130367	Thank you for your response, Mr. Mateshic. Next replica, Mr. Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130368	Thank you very much. Mr. Matesic, I'd like you to comment on a situation that is abnormal to me, which is happening in the City of Zagreb. So, at this point, we have works on the most expensive cable company in the world, over 500 million kuna applied by our mayor, not of course by European funds, which would be normal to build, but by budget means, but still not. So, I'd like you to comment here whether it is in accordance with the law for the mayor of Zagreb to sign a contract after the public procurement procedure for which there is no planned funds in the budget. So, I'm just wondering if it's in accordance with the law or not, or what the mayor of the City of Zagreb is serving, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130369	Thank you. Mr. Matesic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130370	I have to limit myself to my jurisdiction, I'm the president of the Board of Appeal, we make a decision and we give an opinion when the appeal is made, so we make a decision based on the fact that we have a completely factual and legal state, so that I, I, I would not dare give a legal opinion because it is not my jurisdiction either.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130371	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130372	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. In fact, by listening to your report, you've mentioned several times that it's surprising that fewer people are complaining about public procurement. So maybe one reason why people less complain is simply because there is no one to complain about because we see from your report that almost 50% of public procurement occurs only one bidder or one contractor and then it is logical that there is no one to complain about, it seems that people may be less and less willing to work on these public procurements, and on the other hand maybe the reason is that the smaller number of complaints do not have confidence in your work, so they simply give up knowing that essentially with these complaints nothing will be achieved because most decisions are made at political level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130373	Thank you. Reply from fellow Matesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130374	Our task is to provide a report on statistical indicators. The analysis of this report was left to HS or the scientific community or anyone. Your conclusion is, it belongs to one side, but it exists in, and quite the opposite possibility of finding that those who are satisfied with legal certainty are not complaining, and about so the European Commission considers that the fewer complaints that exist in England, you may have one or two complaints a year, testifying to the legal, security of the legal system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130375	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130376	Thank you, Vice-President HS, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Matesic, from the report itself is visible, and you have stated this in your debate that there are fewer complaints on the selection itself, and that in light of the slight growth of complaints on documentation, that in your commission, the deadline from the beginning of the appeal procedure takes 36 days, however, when the whole procedure ends in the administrative court, it takes 565 days and I believe that it is too long, it is literally three budgetary years, and now the chief who has opened a tender for the implementation of certain works, three times over three years in his budget must plan certain funds and three times the rebalance to delete and now, if it is about EU funds, i.e. There is a possibility that the municipality will literally be left without these funds. only because of the long-term nature of the procedure. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130377	I thank my fellow uncle. The President of the State Commission, Mr Goran Matesic, responds, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130378	Well, the State Commission is a defendant in disputes about the right of procurement although someone who judges in the dispute between the contracting authorities and the tenderers, such a role is unnatural to us, but we are in this situation, and we have, in the last two years, formed a service for monitoring legal practice and representing courts in which we are trying to fight for the consistency of legal practice because we previously had the jurisdiction of 4 regional first-degree administrative courts which, it would have been, that the same court would have different practices in similar situations, hence the legislator was just at the suggestion and discussion in HS and on the assessment of the State Commission determined the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court, as one court that could better structure that practice, the length of the dispute is really large, but except that the State Commission as a party to this dispute, here in HS shows that proposal [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130379	.../...g. Mathesian to Answer... The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Christmas Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130380	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's the report for 2017. You have stated that just by applying the new Public Procurement Act, there has been an increase in the number of initiations of appeal procedures on documentation where we now have an amount to pay of 5,000 kuna if it is the documentation regardless of the estimated value of public procurement. Such a share is said to be 34% in the report compared to the total number. So I wonder if this trend continued in 2018 or now it has fallen or stabilized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130381	Thank you, Mr. Matesic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130382	That number stabilized in a slightly smaller amount in '18. A year and our impression is that this tool has won a good result.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130383	Thank you for your response. Next replica Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130384	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Matesic, these days we are witnessing an affair of meat from Poland, we are constantly talking about the need for increasing incentives and positive discrimination of domestic food in our public institutions, and we have passed a new Public Procurement Act that allows so-called. Short supply chains. So it's no longer the only criterion for getting food in kindergartens, schools, the military and the police the lowest price, but so on. that short supply chain or freshness. I wonder if these short supply chains are used or if someone has complained about this new criterion for these short supply chains so far in complaints and whether these short supply chains are used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130385	Mr. Matesic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130386	Thank you very much, in '17. We're not, and we're talking '17. year, we didn't have objects of that kind so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130387	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130388	Thank you very much, Mr Matesic, precisely for the importance of this body on which you may have pointed things out. First of all, how much funds have been blocked for those proceedings being conducted in the Administrative Court, how many blocked funds where the commission has solved the matter because if everyone in the complaint-solving chain, who participates in the appeal procedure, are not effective then people will get a clear picture of how many professional complainants slow down certain jobs and processes. And the other thing perhaps because it is available to you, and we may not be most often referred to by these public participants in the public procurement process, we should point out in this report then we would get a more complete picture. Because this report must not be pure form, it must be information that those who are discussing it would understand how important and very important the role of the Commission is, both for those who are carrying out the procurement process and for those who do so who compete in it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130389	I thank my colleague Shuker. Reply from fellow Matesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130390	Thank you for this very question, so the public procurement procedure involves legal protection, and from here legal protection must be so urgent. Therefore, it is not during the procurement process that funds are blocked but it is a public procurement process involving legal protection. As for the amount of funds that this is in dispute before the Administrative Court, so we took out information about the number that is not in this report, because at the moment when the Administrative Court, when the Constitutional Court rejected the administrative court's initiative and when the Administrative Court started with the appeal, the High Administrative Court, we calculated but this is the data for practically this year, that some 2 billion kuna were blocked in these 100 cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130391	I thank the respected Mr. Matesic for his reply. We have the next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130392	Dear Mr Matesic, you have noted as a criterion which has been applied since 1 July 2017 to the most economically favourable offer and we see that there are many problems in applying this criterion, is there actually more complaints about this criterion than before when it was actually the lowest price?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130393	Thank you, Mr. Matesic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130394	So we're discussing '17. The year it was just, it was the beginning of application, we have the whole '18. And now we're in '19. Our current experiences are much wider than those that happened in '17. A year. However, so that we have to limit ourselves to '17, but they can extend to what happened later, which means developing the application of the system to the most economically favourable offer as criteria. We do not have too many complaints about the documentation compared to the criteria, which means that this criterion already appears as a finished product, finished tools and are most often complaints about the application of that criterion. However, when you have a public company that has standard documentation that has no appeal, so that system of criteria is not controlled, then you have problems and these problems come into expression in ex post control.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130395	I thank Mr. Matesic for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you very much. I am opening a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130396	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, I first congratulate you on one anniversary, 15 years from the existence of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and this, this report for 2017 would like to take a range and actually see from 2004 to 2017 the latest report that we are discussing today, with the number of members of the State Commission, with the number of staff in the State Commission, with the budget of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures and what is most important to the number of cases. In the first year of the draft State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure in 2004, the same commission had 2.5 million kuna budgets, had 15 employees and had 5 members of the commission. What's interesting is that it was a 761 object that was being solved. Of course, over the years Croatia has joined the EU and this number of cases has increased. But what I would like to point out, in 2013, this state commission actually experienced the greatest burden. That year, in 2013, 2,300 cases arrived, and the commission had 5 members. Of which 2 were re-election, so at that moment only three members were solving cases. As a member, although the commission decides as a council, 766 cases have been resolved. That's what I'd like to point out. But if we compare this to this report today, in 2017, you have overall solved 1043 items. This was handled by a commission of nine members and 33 employees, which means that, according to a member of the commission, you have solved only 115 cases. It's data, it's data, it's one statistic. And why am I talking about it? I am talking about this because, according to the Plan of Legislative Activities, the government proposed that a new law actually be passed in the first quarter of 2019. It is also important to point out, interesting data, that in the case where DECOM solves 115 cases according to the 2017 report, the judge of the municipal court, as the judge of the individual solves an average of 717 cases, together with land-based cases. No land books, 283 items. The county court judge solves 203 cases, and the judge of the trade court 236 without the case of the trade register. The Judge in the Administrative Court solves 253 cases and therefore needs to be considered, so the new law and the new proposal of the Government means that this report is also a contribution of the club of the representatives of MOST to the creation of the legal solution that is before us. I would also like to point out that it is very important for us to have legal protection in public procurement procedures, and at the beginning of this month the Court of Justice rejected a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of the current Public Procurement Act. It is a case launched by the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in June 2017, which caused a delay in proceedings, meaning the resolution of the High Administrative Court in cases against the State Public Procurement Commission's solution. With this step, we would also like to give our support to both the state commission and the legal protection of all those in public procurement procedures because on 1 June 2018, the number of delays in administrative disputes before the High Court is 52 and the total value of these disputes is almost half a billion kuna. So if we're going to look at some distance that's now going to be 2nd month of 2019, we're going to conclude that this number is increasing. So we appeal this way to the High Administrative Court to go with the backlogs it itself has caused and that Croatian business entities and everyone else would have available legal protection in the cases and procedures of public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130397	Thank you, dear colleague Chikotic. The next debate in the name of the HDZ representative club, respected counterpart Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130398	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed director with colleagues and colleagues. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I think only the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2017 shows publicly, as well as the introductory address of the Director, but also the replicas that are given, that any debate can lead to a level of almost absurdity, and that, already, was visible at the beginning because comparing the work, I don't know, members of the State Commission with the work of judges, subject or number of cases, mixed pears and apples, created some sort of judgment about who is doing more or who is doing nothing, is simply the slightest hand of badness, let alone say something else, because the fact is that this is one correct report that we have always discussed in the Assembly because this requires Article 18. Law on the State Commission to control public procurement procedures. And this Parliament does it neatly every year, with that and in all the debates so far, at least as much as I make them, always the same. This table is taken on page 23, so a little experience is added and then, of course, one that is in that last table as professional complainants and then that debate essentially goes beyond what is important. And I think that everything that is important in this report, including the fact that in the course of 2017, we have, for the first time, the Public Procurement Act which, according to me, was a single act of this government adopted at the end of 2016 with the date of entry in 2017, as something good that, in some way, made the public procurement process a failure, but also leave enough strong control mechanisms and legal protection that everyone can protect himself if he considers that a certain procedure does not satisfy what he considers legal or lawfully given. So, really, as far as the report itself is concerned, we should say that if we look at all the commissions or all the agencies that we have, let's say, this one, if we're going to have the lowest level of debate, is going to be very profitable because it's spending 9 and it makes 16, so that's great for the country. But we can't look at their work that way because it's really about people, which are clearly numbered here, of 48 possible people have 33 employees, of which 33 and 9 named HS by certain rules, and they're all almost 100% VSS. So they're not people who don't know their jobs or who wouldn't know how to do the most complex procedure, as they've come up with an evaluation process or an evaluation of an appeal that's been declared to the papers that have been auctioned for, say, the Peljega Bridge, so I don't see any major problems besides some possible representative's desire to point out, in the debate, but that it's negative. Because what could we do here in this report is that it's negative? So we're referring to anti-corruption activity by the agency itself, i.e. State commissions where they clearly assess the impact and everything they have done in this segment, and in cooperation with other authorities of the Republic of Croatia and international bodies, and which means preventing the conclusion of a certain level of harmful contracts and how much it contributes to local problems to public undertakings and to the state level itself. The fact that the public process or the public of work exists, 860 thousand reviews, almost 2000 daily views the site clearly shows that it has interest and that anyone who is in a certain process is clearly informed about how the process ends. Many are sometimes forgotten or suddenly waiting for solutions, etc., and long ago, they were published on that page because we have and we have to admit it in various bodies, public institutions that are bonds of the Public Procurement Act, all kinds of people who, either better or more actively, are doing their job or are weaker or less active in doing this job. We have the first experience, so in 2019 we are talking about the first experience of applying the new Public Procurement Act in 2017 and also the Commission's review of what was better and what might be more to fix within that law. It should certainly be commendable in law to improve e-procurement or public procurement in digital form because it has greatly contributed to all of the local self-government to all public enterprises, etc. that these paper collidings are just not in the system anymore. Simply anyone can digitally offer what they think or at that point is advertised on public procurement. We also heard the opinion that complaints also finally appear in digital form and that we also bring that moment to a level that makes us part of an orderly EU in which we can function normally and use the benefits of the time we live in. The first experience in applying the criteria is the most economically favourable price. We all talked about it a lot, there were Laws on Public Procurement by 2017, but when that criterion came up, many were satisfied. What do we see now? We see that this economically advantageous price is practically in relation to other criteria 90:10. It means that all leaders are still resorting to what is easiest or simplest because everything else requires a little more effort in their work. So 90% of my purchases are the most basic price criterion. Because it's kind of the easiest thing for us to do, and we think it creates better conditions for our local self-government or for investment or for what we're already doing in public procurement. What do I see as a problem? I can see the problem we've taken down the thresholds. So something happened that maybe the government or the ministry should perceive and react. That it happens to us that we are almost out of public procurement where we do not cross the amount of estimated values and that there are economically best prices for us, become excess projectors, become too high those who are professional to assess the cost of a certain investment. So there we had until 2017 the fact that there were thresholds and that you had to offer within the estimated value of a set price and if you went over it, you would automatically cancel out the competition. After that, we introduced this most economically advantageous and now every good one, it was 100% more expensive, it was 30% more expensive, just anyone can pass. And that's why there may be no complaints, they're not in so many because they're getting a much bigger amount in the contests because investors realized that they could transfer all their costs to the investor now. Is this in the construction sector the cost of the salaries of its workers to make a certain investment, and we will transfer that cost or increase of wages to each investor because now in the construction sector, there is great competition, i.e. but also an insufficient number of contractors, and it happens to us that simple construction works are really piling up somewhere between 20% and 40% by all investments. And it also creates problems in the use of European funds. I think the ministry should find models to determine either the thresholds or the allowed percentages where we can go with those prices above the estimate. Because we have indeed found ourselves many times in situations to ask the designers what is more worth your work and your charts and your estimates that appear on the market when we get something else in the competitions. As for the number of objects, we can see that they began to fall in a slightly smaller number compared to the years before. We heard in 2013 it means over 2000, this year it's something about 950 which shows that the law has its own say quality, but there are still certain problems that should be addressed through amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. We can't say today that we don't have people who are certified, this process is already going on for almost 15 years where many people from local self-government to regional levels, public enterprises and ministries each year through a certain level of seminars, courses are really verging or schooling or obtaining certificates that they can carry out clear, legal procurement processes. The preparation of the documentation, also an important moment in the new Public Procurement Act, and these mandatory public consultations show how important it is, because some 5, 8 days must be something out there so that public procurement can be called at all and it is used by performers or those who want to report and are clearly asking questions every day about what they still think is unclear or what they think should be complemented so that later, i.e. They immediately prevent something that may later arise as a problem. As for all these tables that are listed here, I mean other than this table that is constantly the subject of the debate, which is this one on page 23, clearly shows that something can be interpreted in several ways. Well, we heard the city of Zagreb does not know how to conduct public procurement procedures because it has the most objects. It may have the most money and that 7 billion kuna is something that can cause the largest number of procedures, but when we look at a percentage of 900 and something, 900 and 80 public procurement procedures, which could be summed up for almost half of the local self-government in the Republic, if not more, it is clear that these 10% of total complaints are something that can happen to anyone who writes or registers 10 public procurements in that year, will surely earn at least one complaint, the documentation was perfect, less perfect or completely bad written because they are simply such laws or such are figures. Also, HEP years with the largest budget in billions, with investments and network maintenance clearly demonstrates what is happening in that space. Public companies of the Croatian Roads, Croatian Waters, means all those who practically have the most money to invest in infrastructure are exposed to the process of appeal, there is something less, of course public and local self-government units and regional self-government because they do not carry out these larger public procurements, I think that the thresholds are quite well affected when we talk about boughing, supply of goods and services up to 200 and works up to 500,000,00 kn, to enable small municipal works, especially in local self-government, in a faster manner of bargaining, etc., without avoiding the basic principle that we have a competition or that we have people who offer two, three or more offers. As for these tables, it is clear to say that when we have HEP close to it, that we also have those who, as well as the recordrs, appear as the one who complains the most, is always writing a lot and talking about it, so we have a practical company, a small company, a company that has the most complaints and now someone should get the impression that a person is probably complaining that he has nothing else to do, probably looking for his own way to work, and that he respects his desire to compete in the process and get a job, including from a HEP or from some other company he thinks he has a product that he can offer, so that he realizes that there are simply professional complainants, I don't think there are, but that there are those who are looking for even more, means, from the law itself or a change of the law, that they don't come into a situation for the same valuable product that they can be offered, but they are eliminated by means that there are already, or documentation, or by means that we can't be expected to the end of the public market, or by means that we can be expected of which we can be expected. The fact that infrastructure and health care are practically generated by the largest number of complaints clearly shows that there are the most in these areas, meaning public procurement procedures, but obviously the most money. More or less, here, I think we've said everything that's important, we support this State Commission report for 2017. And here, we can only wish to discuss really concretely what it says here that we do not invent because the fact is that certain discussions that we have already had here safe and several dozen times, show in which the easiest way to discuss this is one report, and I think that it is very correct, clear and concisely demonstrated everything that has happened within that State Commission in the past year, that nothing has been skipped, any moment that is important to us, and particularly important considerations given by the Public Procurement Act itself, and what should be fixed in that law with some of our experiences, I hope that the Ministry of Economy will listen to this law and try to find solutions to what we see in 2017 and 2018 operate in the way that we have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130399	I thank my colleague Boric for this debate. Before continuing the debate, I welcome the students to the high school students from Buzet and their professors and professors, and welcome and comfortable stay in the rooms of HS... We're moving on with our work, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, here you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130400	Dear Vice-President HS, I request a break on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club in order to consult on the debate at this point in view of the approach of his colleagues on behalf of the HDZ Club, in which he argued that the topic should be kept, and the subject is the report on the Commission's action to control the procurement procedures, and I fully agree. However, this debate cannot only be limited to this report because it is very important issues. I also asked a representative of the State Commission in the reply, and this is a very important infrastructure project, which is the construction of the Pelješko bridge, because according to the introduction itself, the report of this body states that the new Public Procurement Act of 2016 has prescribed the obligation to act as the State Commission under official duty in the tax cases, the assessment of the legality of the proceedings and the action of the contracting authorities with an emphasis on the action of this State body in the appeal procedure, regardless of the stage in which the appeal was made. So, until the moment the works on the Peljesk Bridge are completed, this is an investment worth two billion kunas, in which it is true, and the Administrative Court has reached its own solution. It is also evident that those who complained have continued to submit complaints, and the basis of their complaint was that the Chinese were going with dumping prices, therefore lower prices than permitted, prices that were subsidized by their country. It is certain that, at some stage of the procedure, it can and can be proven, which is why I believe that this topic is very important and that we cannot discuss this topic only in the context of this report, we must extend it because of the interest of Croatian citizens and therefore ask for a 10 minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130401	I thank my colleague, Sagar, I hope you have someone to consult with, since you're alone, but well, I guess they're waiting outside for you, someone else? No, I don't. Thank you very much. At 11:00, we'll get back to work. Interruption of the session at 11:37 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:51 A.M.]] In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA's esteemed colleague Dr. Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130403	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. So the public procurement story is about the early Croatian society's cancer called corruption. Corruption as little as demoralizes society, kills hope for a better tomorrow, creates contempt for social values, institutions and even the state itself. As I read in this report, which is before us, so the Public Procurement Report, on public procurement, is exactly one of the main sources of corruption, so this is confirmed here and officially which is no wonder that public procurement in Croatia is about 44 billion kuna or almost, between 10% and 15% of GDP. It's a huge amount of money that's suspected that one good part ends up in private pockets. Such a conclusion is driven by the opinion of the public change, and in particular by independent analyses, including those of the international ones. And while the citizens of Europe we love to compare so much with almost do not know corruption in business with us is the rule. And even 90% of citizens, most importantly those who deal with entrepreneurship believe that Croatian society is deeply corrupt, which means that there is a consensus of voters of all parties regardless of whether they are from the ruling majority or from opposition. Corruption thus destroys the public sector and consequently the entire country. People simply cannot advance their abilities, their education, because they see that it is progressing in other ways, that it is progressing by party similarity, family ties, corruption. And what's even worse than all those people who can't make progress stop believing that they can live honestly and in a fair way succeed. Many of them are then subject to some distorted moral standard that says that doing a little more damage than doing more damage, others think that corruption will save time, some say I sacrifice myself, participate in corruption because I sacrifice for the sake of my family. But either way, it's not good to give or take bribes. Whoever checks public procurement, we see in this report that it is checked by a state commission of only 9 members who file indictments for violations but only in public procurements of more than 200 thousand kunas. The state commission has its own professional services, has 33 employees, has a budget of 9 million kuna. Is that enough, even according to this report that we have in front of us, that it is not, that a larger number of employees are envisaged, why they are not employed should ask those who decide. What are the complaints filed about public procurement? So let's say entrepreneurs complain most often that the specifications of public procurement are tailored according to the measure of the pre-selected bidders, so that the documentation is done so that only one economic operator can pass the contest, so that it is precisely written such strict conditions that simply no one can meet them and thus eliminates competition. It is also said that vague selection and evaluation criteria are but what bothers entrepreneurs the most is the feeling that public procurement is being negotiated in secret. It means that they are not negotiated where they should be in institutions, but that they are negotiated in restaurants, catering facilities, mountains, private houses, we also know in Mirogoj, etc. And we don't need to be surprised because the government itself is basically sending such messages, enough to remember Mr. Sanader or, say, Deputy Prime Minister Dalic and the famous Borg group, where jobs worth billions of kuna have been negotiated in so-called supply places, in any case unworthy of such high levels as the Government of the Republic of Croatia. After these secret deals, then deal deals are followed by rewards to those who have agreed these deals and these rewards are most often seen in cash money that is drawn when money is paid or other benefits are given. For example, these companies can employ party friends, relatives, or provide some services, e.g. I don't know. Cars, cell phones, construction work, etc. Another way to benefit from these public procurements is that the lowest price is given because the lowest price is the main criterion for more than 98% of public procurement and then, it means that competition is pushed out and then after the job is started, then the contract annex is done. Then there was an annex to the contract where it was thought that there were some new costs, that there were some new quantities, which were to be given, which had not been previously shown and then ultimately paid a much higher price than it was in the public competition itself. All these malfeasances, which I have mentioned now exist in other countries, is not Croatia, let's say so, original by that, but in Croatia they achieve these frauds far higher than in any other country in Europe. As a consequence of such a situation, we have a situation, as I have already said, that almost half the procurement occurs only one bidder, because people simply don't want to report because they know they don't have a fair chance of getting to work, and even now, unfortunately, we have a situation that no one is reporting to public procurement anymore and no one is responding to public procurement, to this extent is mistrust in these public procurements... But even recently in the Parliament we had, we should have chosen, I mean the president for fiscal policy, or for which is a very high salary, no one answered, because he knows that without agreeing with certain structures in power he will not be chosen, so he was the only candidate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This money, which is divided into private pockets during public procurement, should be monitored by the Tax Administration, we from the Living Wall, we have passed the Property Origin Act, we see that it is not on the agenda, instead of discussing this law, we will now have a break in 3 months. We'll have another break in four months. but certainly there is a huge disproportionate amount of property of certain politicians and certain public officials in relation to their salaries. Let's say it's nice not to be able to conduct public procurement for the purchase of textbooks, so then have money for the presidential campaign or, say, get an account in London or get a new Audi from the president of the football club, etc. So if someone made a little effort, you'd see very clearly where the money trail was going, but that's not necessary for us. With us, the fight against corruption, it was only necessary before the EU's entry, in 2011-2012 to play a little bit to stop this corruption, in fact, to combat party warnings, was waged by intra-party struggles. As soon as we enter the EU, in 2013, there is no more fight against corruption, we do not need it, and most importantly, corruption has increased, because, according to the corruption index, Croatia has been sinking more and more each year on this scale since its entry into the EU. Tons among other things and because money is often drawn through direct, let's say through direct money laundering, so it doesn't even need to do some services, and the classic example for that is consulting services. So consulting services are services that are never given. So they're not given, they're only for money to be paid, to be divided into white bags, or as it is, it's usually in the hands of politicians. A classic case for this is a group of borgs, which allegedly did not know the consultations had for 550 million kunas although Agrokor has 60,000 employees, has top experts and legal services and all those consultations could give for their regular salaries, but here are 550,000 kunas, Texo Menagment managed to give consultations worth 9 million kunas before the restructuring of Agrokor even started. It's such a scandal, that he really deserved the people to go out into the streets but here's the situation that because of the passivity of the general abbey it didn't happen, and on the other hand, those who took part in it say they saved the state. I'm saying that because, let's say, here's a nice case for comparison, let's say Raiffeisen's pension fund, which has 40 billion kuna assets, which is about the same property as Agrokor, spends 700-900 thousand kuna per year for consulting. So now you compare that 700-900 thousand kuna money for actual consultations with 540 million kuna for consultations that didn't exist. And of course, we have to ask ourselves, who are they, then, those people who have the most benefit from corruption, which, of course, are gentlemen politicians, but unfortunately, lawyers. And Mr. Lawyers, who also according to all independent analyses, most importantly to the lawyers themselves, show that they are just as hard to corrupt. They're judges, public notebooks, lawyers, etc. All of them, unfortunately, are followers of the corrupt system, which was established at the time of the first President Franjo Tudjman, who, by buying a villa in Pantovac, by law worth only one day, opened Pandora's box of corruption, which will not be closed until HDZ disappears from the political scene. By creating modern Croatian corruption, Franjo Tudjman has largely annulled the merits of creating an independent Croatian state, he literally broke both his arms and his legs and his teeth to the newborn, and left him to be able to do what he can and can, rather say that he is vegetating at the mercy and mercy of the side of the aid. When we talk about corruption, of course this government has made no contribution, and we see it best in this parliamentary majority which is concluded in the way it is. Here we have one handsome cooperation like this, we see Mr. Bandić we also have Mr. Brkić, who sees good friends, in Zagreb spreads business spaces etc. and according to the State Commission report, the largest number of public procurement cancellations is precisely where, in the town of Zagreb, it happens to be. So there is something here and then in HEP, in Croatian waters and Croatian highways, it means again in public companies controlled by the parliamentary majority. One more thing about specific cases of these public procurements. I'll tell you when I get a chance to talk about an individual debate, but now my time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130404	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Next debate on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So talk about the State Commission for Public Procurement Control and the Public Procurement Act, it's always interesting but it's not good to just speak in one direction and only one side because it always turns out this parliamentary majority defends it and the opposition always attacks it, now only things change how any party is in position, who is the opposition. The fact is that legislation has been amended to prevent certain things and certain improvements can be noticed and felt. When I follow this information that is set out in accordance with the law and what the law has prescribed to the State Commission, then we don't have the possibility of any major objections, possibly some major criticism. But what is important is actually the scope of the State Commission's affairs whether much more could be done if the State Commission for Public Procurement Control could participate in the process and otherwise. Not only when someone complains, but then the commission decides on the appeal of whoever complains, who was in the contest because many processes actually happen without complaints, and they are actually being talked about here in the good part of the debate. And these processes are not the subject of this report and may need to be considered in the future on the real strengthening of this body, the increase and number of employees in that body and the extension of the powers of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control so that they can intervene not only on the basis of applicants who complain but also on certain assessments and certain controls in public procurement procedures, of course in the bodies that question it. It appears that the number of items received has fallen, could even be said significantly compared to 2014, it can be double, it can be good and it can be bad. This could mean that the investment process may be in some kind of a slight stalemate and that there are not enough contractors who actually appear in competitions and then there are no complaints. Unfortunately, I dare to conclude that we, too, have contributed to the decline of certain companies and businesses all these years behind us because at times when it was the cheapest price, the main measure of choice of bidders, the legs of the company came down with prices below the lowest possible prices, and after that, when I say, I mean, of course, the Croatian Parliament and the governments that were regardless of whose composition and who had the majority, we certainly helped to make this happen. Today, there is another situation, as has already been heard from some debate here, we have a situation that there is no one to report to the competitions anymore. To discuss competitions, there are no bidders and there is a great danger that there is definitely a process of using European funds during the time of this government and that today we have a situation to discuss competitions and that we are ahead of the launch of series and other competitions of enormous values which unfortunately happen that no one from Croatia will be able to report. Well, there won't be any complaints. There will be no objection likely because there will be no competition in this work and it will contribute to that and the prices of growth, that will go up and I repeat, I am going back again, we have made a contribution as a policy that is happening now. First, we agreed by law that companies were being destroyed and now we have a rise in prices and problems about using European money due to the rapid rise in prices on the market. To talk about that only the commission should work in a way that responds to complaints, it's not good, and I think it really should, I repeat, expand the activities, here's a little example. So, the competition, the public tender, it's being announced by local self-government, two bidders appear. An offerer who's a little more expensive than the other one is chosen, it's all by law because it can be done. The other one doesn't complain. What's going on? It happens in the second step that the second bidder is a subcontractor to the one who got the job. Is that the point where an institution like this should react? Should you be looking into a situation like this? And the state commission under this current law under which it works can't really do it, and in that part, maybe more problems happen to us than in the process of selecting the contractors. So I'm saying, it would be good to think about finding opportunities and expanding activities, of course, what's still going on along with that. What I lack in this report, I think, is in the replica, and he mentioned the estimated value or value of these public procurements, how much this was worth, which cost those 36 days on average, or, well, when the administrative procedure is being conducted, it does not mean that work cannot go any further, but in any case, it is very important to get one indicator of how many public procurements, which were values, for which the values were appeals and whether this was an improvement in previous times or not, I think it is an improvement because we had cases in previous years in these reports, that reports showed that billions of kuna were blocked due to the delaying of the process, the appeal processes in public procurement proceedings. And that information would be good in any case to have also as part of this report. What I'd like to just point out here, another little thing. There's always talk about some kind of crime in public procurement, about setting things up, I don't know what it's all about. There's probably that one, too. But let's not generalize the matter. Let's not talk about ourselves like that and declare ourselves thieves when we're not, because, realistically, we should be able to control ourselves in designing. The biggest problems in public procurement happen in the design of projects themselves. Because it's possible to put the designer in a project, later in tenders, certain, so to speak, materials and other things that later on in public procurement just go on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and there's basically nothing you can do about it. There are certain units of local self-government in Croatia, including state institutions, state-owned companies, who do this job extremely clean, correct and fair, and who have problems, certainly there are those who do not do it right. I personally experienced all sorts of things in that part and I saw in a series of smaller units of local self-government constantly strange behavior in the conduct of public procurement and nothing happened to anyone. The state audit that comes into the business audits of local self-government is probably not as well teamed up as well to be able to spot all that and all that, so to speak, sanction. For this reason, it would be necessary and necessary to extend the activities of the State Commission for the control of public procurement. Our club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130406	I thank my colleagues, Hrga. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Bozica Makar. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130407	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear President Matesic with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing a report by the State Commission for Public Procurement Control for 2017. As indicated above, it is an independent and independent state body which is responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures, concessions and procedures for selecting a private partner in public private partnership projects. Out of the 940 complaints received in 2017, only 17 referred to complaints under the concessions awarded, or there were no complaints of a public private partnership because if we know that we have only 12 contracts, it seems to me here somewhere, from a public private partnership, then no wonder there are no complaints on them. In view of the thoroughness and knowledge that the State Commission is coming to with its controls, the component of the report in the work of the State Commission also contains a public procurement assessment concerning both the procurement process and the legal protection procedure. As well as the institutional framework of public procurement. The resources for the work of the State Commission are provided in the state budget and both the funds for wages and other material expenditure and investment in buildings and the technical equipment they need to carry out their work and that is more quality. The State Commission has no other income than the revenue from the budget because the fee paid for the initiation of the public procurement appeal procedure is explicitly paid into the state budget and is the revenue of the state budget. In 2017, 16,6 million kuna was paid with the basis of the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure, which was less than in 2016 when 21 million kuna were collected from the fees. The lower revenue from the fees was made due to a small number of complainants, but most of all because of the application of the new Public Procurement Act introduced by the Institute of Public Procurement for the complaint of documentation, where a payment was set for the initiation of the appeal procedure of HRK 5,000 regardless of the estimated value of the purchase, therefore, if it complains of the established documentation. So we have whether the estimated value of the purchase is up to 750,000 kuna or more than 60 million kuna is estimated if someone complains about the documents paying 5,000 kuna. In the report, we see that the funds spent to work with basic salaries and all other costs are slightly higher than 9 million kuna, so the state budget is based on the collected fees paid 7 million than the costs for the work of the state commission in 2017. According to the figures on the number of employees, in 2017 the increase in the number of employees by 4 employees is from 29 to 33, while 48 employees are foreseen for the work of the state office. Although these are statistical data and are probably shown based on hours of work, there is a possibility that there are even more employees. However, those who effectively accomplished hours of work and best at the office know whether they had a filled number, whether it was enough for them, whether filling up the intended number has accelerated the work of the case, but really they can best assess it from the inside. Since this is about people of whom 95% are masters of the profession, so absolutes are professional and we should at no time doubt their expertise, but we often expect them to be not only controlrs of the public procurement process but also fighters against corruption. An important anti-corruption effect is in this, in publicly available legal practice. Namely, all decisions are published on the State Commission's website in full form, i.e. with the name of the parties, and the application of the new Public Procurement Act also allows publication of decisions by the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in public procurement disputes. This process of legal protection makes it really transparent. We also have a register of appeals which is publicly available on the State Commission's website. The State Commission itself is also an active participant in the creation of a strategy to combat corruption and carry out activities on the 2017 and '18 action plan. in the 2015 anti-corruption strategy 2020, which includes detection of corruption risks. Since we've been saying what their expertise really is, I think they can make a good assessment of it. I will also note that the state commission is working together and communicating with civil society associations. Since my colleagues have already mentioned that it is not only public perception but also an analysis of what the problem of public procurement corruption is considered the most pronounced problem, and since it really is billions of kunas, more than 40 billion kunas per year in the public procurement system, it is no wonder. There are objective problems in the procurement process. We still have a certain mistrust between the client and the bidder. While contracting authorities are afraid that they will not be able to finish a certain job, that they will not be able to obtain certain goods in a short period of time and often resort to small-value purchases, it is the bidders who believe that there is the greatest possibility of manipulation. And this may need to be an additional regulation to determine what should be in order to gain that trust between the contracting authorities and the tenderers. By applying this new Public Procurement Act, which introduces the Institute's most economically favourable offers, and not more criteria at lower prices, in practice it still hasn't revived enough because it's just easier for everyone to turn away from the price because it's something I can determine at any moment, that's the price. So at the outset, she was in the structure in 90% was determined what the price was, and only 10% were related to all other selection criteria. However, this is important and it is important to keep as much money as possible to the client as possible, but ultimately to see what it is to get the highest quality of works and public money services and to establish the correct criteria for institutions, according to the contracting authorities, and that this is transparently visible, possible comparable for everyone. Here, I'll look at just a little bit of what my colleague Batinić was saying in his replica, it's a table on page 23, where we have orderers with 5 and more appeal procedures, so we have these numbers and percentages that really still might include one piece of information, and that's the number of complaints compared to the number of public procurements published, because then we would get to a percentage here from 6% to 46% of HEP, which is really a lot and in this context, but maybe to add the value of the public procurement to which the complaints were sent, and we would have a more complete picture. About the report itself, I'll just say that it was done professionally, that it was done transparently, and besides all the reports that were 14, it seems to me, the HNS Club will support this report and we believe as well as our citizens, that you will not only be controllers, but that you will also be fighters for transparency and the fight against corruption that everyone would really want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130408	I thank my colleague, Macar. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130409	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, MPs, representatives of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. I will immediately say in the beginning that the SDP will support the Commission's work which is doing a very important job and if we talk about the anti-corruption action of the State Commission, it is important, so it would be a good and public and clear position of the Commission, when a representative in the Croatian Parliament asks a question, simply as if today is a sunny day. And then you look out the window and you see that. And when a representative asks a question that is obvious, then if there are public employees, and this is about the president of the commission and his associates, they can speak, so maybe even if it's a little awkward to mention Bandic in the Croatian Parliament, I will mention hypothetically, means whether or not legal behaviour is allowed, when some unit leader of local self-government, signs a contract of hundreds of millions of kunas worth, and that there are no insured funds in the budget, knows that there is no means provided, everyone knows that there is no means to be provided and whether that is legal behaviour. I'd like to hear from you individually by the end of this debate, so I'm going to talk about it, so it's better if my colleagues from the Commission immediately give an answer, say if it's legal behavior and if it's illegal behavior? Whether or not it is in the domain of work in this case of the Board of Appeal, whether it is defined as an essential element of what they control in public procurement procedures, but it would be good for the President of the Commission, one body, which is the authority in the field of public procurement, to tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to say as possible and whether it is legal for the Head of the Unit of Local Self-Government to sign a contract worth 3 hundreds and 75 million kuna, without having the money secured even 5% in the state budget of that amount, God in the city budget of that amount. This is, for example, another contribution to the anti-corruption action of the State Commission, where the President of the Commission will clearly say that this is not acceptable behaviour, that this is not the meaning of the Public Procurement Act, and that leaders who do so are irresponsible to their citizens and to the representative body representing them because they do not care what kind of budget that body will make, if it can make a decision worth 3 hundred and 75 million kuna and thus put before the final act all those who vote on budgets and whether budgets. And it's not just this year, it's people's years, because it's not just one year. This is another major anti-corruption contribution from the State Commission, and the State Commission would certainly experience even greater praise if it were so clearly determined according to irregularities, mules, mumps, as we say in Zagreb, those who use chips to manage their cities, i.e. to hold most HDZ in the Croatian Parliament. On that side, it is important in such an important area, that we all stand on the same side and give support to such public work by the Commission, where it will prove to be an authority and where it will not stare at those things, which as no one has asked us anything, here we know. Well, if I were the director of the commission, if I knew that information, I'd give an interview in the paper tomorrow and warn about it. Absolutely, he would warn the illegal activities of the City of Zagreb and 375 million not planned in the state budget, which the mayor of Zagreb wants with the most expensive cableman in the world, the most expensive cabler in the world to burden our fellow citizens. On the other hand, I think it's anti-corruption action, and if I'm not, I've also read a complaint, which is one company that didn't complain later in the second round, I guess it's all covered up, so when you see trucks that weren't even in operation on the 10th page, then a man asks himself a question, so why 10 trucks, if you can rent cheaper than one company 10 trucks and have a more economic job. What's that for? And then you have to feel sorry for yourself, so look, maybe it goes to the 10th page, which is what it's about. So there are creative opportunities very much, so unfortunately, it would be at the end of the most expensive cable in the world and the unblessing way of spending public money on the citizens of the City of Zagreb, which everyone is silent about, means they're silent about it. Here, I say once again, I would like the institution, in itself, regardless of whether it should be written, a letter, a complaint, to answer me because you are independent, appointed by HS, you have your mandate, and there is a minimum of what you can answer to such questions, so that it is convenient to see this table which a colleague from the HDZ spoke about before, and which speaks about how much and where the complaint has been received, and there is always a leader from year to year in the City of Zagreb with the number of items received and solved and with the number of complaints that have been adopted, which are adopted regardless of what is the greatest capacity and staff and financial etc., no matter what there is no reason for such complaints to happen because he said with 900 items already could be followed for years as this process takes place, but unfortunately there is still the most of those who complain and those who receive complaints in the City of Zagreb, 47. If I don't talk about the fact that in Holding, I don't see that somewhere reported, written Holding, there's only a real Eldorado government, there's no one who knows who, or how to get external services, we've seen, there's going to be a State Audit report here at HS, and then you'll see, the only city in the Republic of Croatia of 36 who's been audited, who's got an unfavourable opinion as the city of Zagreb or Zagreb holding, and then we're listening to the stories of the Bandic Mayor about him having a zero tolerance rate on in the indifference, and basically one good part of his working time on Zrinjevac giving statements or sitting on the defendant's bench, so that on this side we should talk about, maybe there are certain answers to questions about which is the most expensive of his work, which is why a lot of public procurement in the City of Zagreb can's, which we can't be more efficient, because of which we can't be able to deal with money. Another institution that pops up here with the data is HRT, 10 complaints, 7 adopted, that tells you when you're 10 times complaining you have a percentage of 78, pardon, 9 resolved, 7% of the complaints' successes tell you how successful HRT leadership is at this point more concerned about how to edit the Dnevnik by the wishes of Andrej Plenkovic, than to make public procurement procedures effective and correct or to deal more with suing journalists, so now they're saying they haven't been sued, and the journalists themselves said they got 50 to not know how much, 200,000,00 kn instead of paying attention to their business to see that they don't have girls money or to be high-quality public procurement procedures, they're dealing with setting up the HRT program of the HDZ and they're doing it by accounting with parliamentary deputies and talking about not knowing what political pressures. So no one in the Republic of Croatia at this time who pays the overpayment has the feeling that they get a fair fair, fair service back and that with that money that we all pay 80,00 kn per month, from which they are paid and the public procurement on HRT that they deserve that money. So, we should think about these policy managers where we set up, the brother-in-laws and similar directors, etc., and not about whether anyone is fighting whether journalists need and can do their job in a way, in the quality that we should do in any democratic normal country, or like in the Republic of Serbia, that Vukic organizes in Serbia television, and that with us Plenkovic edits, maybe they want it in HDZ, I don't know, I don't know, possible, but I don't want it and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia don't want it, and that's why it's a very clear message and information that's being seen from this report by the Commission for 2017. about the public procurement that 78% of the successful complaints that HRT lost on the commission, or from those who complained, do not take into account the correct way in which they should be guided and as soon as they should be dealt with and how many people believe them, let them just look at the level of ratings of their shows and ask Sunni Glavak how much Kovačić replaced the journalist and editors, she knows very well because she is friends with Sinish Kovačić, so she can consult with him, so let him ask him how much he replaced the editor when he was there to change it, so it will be clear to you who essentially wants the television to function in a normal way, and who as HDZ wants to be in the function of the ruling party, so that it is something that should also pay attention to people there, they would probably be more successful and in the field of public procurement. Finally, we will support this report, please, once again, here, I am praying in a humble manner as a representative of the SDP Club that the president of the committee answers me whether it is legal to sign contracts that you do not have planned and thus create obligations for this city in the future, and you do not know at all whether the budgets are going to be voted in this way, the question that is the point is at all, here is the experienced financier and former Finance Minister Ivan Shucker who, who certainly understands that, that this is not normal behaviour and the Law on fiscal responsibility, which is why the Ministry of Finance does not act, but here I am talking in the Croatian Parliament about it, Bandic is talking publicly about it at press conferences that there is no fiscal responsibility, which is why the Ministry of Finance does not act, which is not sending supervision, which is why it does not determine that it is not happening in this way and that in the end does not sanction such behaviour. But the question remains on the table to the President of the Commission is that legal, is that how the Public Procurement Act is allowed to behave? What my colleague Shuker said, I support it, the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, must not be acted like it, but also, in my opinion, and I hope that the President of the Commission and the Public Procurement Act will also not, and here is the President or representative of Club Milan Bandic, perhaps he can answer in his debate on behalf of the club, how this Bandic public procurement is conducted in the City of Zagreb and the 500 million most expensive cableman in the world is running through a budget he has not at all, meaning money that is not planned. All relevant are here in the Croatian Parliament to have a quality discussion about it and to come to the conclusion that it is not normal behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130410	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130411	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, is that at the very beginning and immediately I say that the Independent Representatives' Club will support this work report because there is no, that there are no more important remarks on the report itself. However, the only difference is what counterpart Boric said in front of the HDZ Club that we do not agree not to speak in this topic in a broader context. Because public procurement is an extremely important segment of public money management, and as she mentioned, I think that colleague Mrak-Taritash is again the amount of 40 billion kunas that go through public procurement every year. So other than public procurement into that part, so-called. It's a great deal to get. We in this section in the report, of course the Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures does not deal with it, it deals with complaints and acting on official duty which I will later ask the representatives of the State Commission himself what it is and how they plan to do it. But just for the introduction of a short sentence, imagine that the review find makes a recommendation to one of the public companies that they must have two bidders in public procurement, and then we can imagine at which level individual customers are in the area of public procurement. So, on the one hand, we have orderers who, according to the new Public Procurement Act, put a rather demanding job ahead of them. What we have warned here in the debate of the then, the proposer Ms. Martin Dalic, who proposed on behalf of the ministry this law, whether all the contracting authorities, and in particular the units of local self-government, had enough resources to obtain the apparatus in accordance with all the obligations ahead of them, and especially in this section of the selection or proposal of the most economically rewarding offer because we see that this report also states that only the basic parameters of this selection are used, and those available, which can indeed be the best, best service for public money. It's not because people don't want to do it, they just don't have enough knowledge they're not educated enough. It is true that in many units or almost all units of local self-government there is a person who has a certificate in the field of public procurement, but there is not enough knowledge, she cannot do it herself, and in order to hire other experts then we need to pay for it. So, the State Commission itself for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in relation to the contracting authorities has done its job as we see from the 2017 report in a satisfactory way because the deadline for decision-making has been reduced to 36 days which is extremely important because when you secure the funds if you do not reach the final act after the call, and this is the signing of the contract that means you can fail, whether they are from the funds, whether they are from, are available from a particular ministry. And this has happened to us in the past that many competitions have failed, many of the funds have been lost because they were so-called. Professional mourners who then obstructed the public procurement itself. Therefore, the state commission itself should be commended for shortening these procedures, which is important for the contracting authorities. However, apart from the contracting authorities here, we have other participants in this process, and these are the ones who make the offers, the performers. And most of all, it is those who complain to their own, who appeal to the state commission because they consider that in a certain part of the procurement process themselves they are suspended. It is also good for them to make a decision within such a short time, but we see from the reports that some colleagues and colleagues stressed that it is not, that we do not have enough staff in this, this very important holding body and I assume that they are then faced with, on the one hand with pressure to solve the case as soon as possible, and on the other hand to solve it in a high-quality and fair way and I think that these two, these two levels of pressures that are in conflict put an extremely demanding job ahead of them. And I should say this opportunity to congratulate them on their work because it is not a simple job to do because their decisions, their decisions, depend often and on the future of some businesses, means jobs and all that they have to make in that decision, and someone is here, I think, is a colleague of Shucker and asked, what about all those cases that have been standing in the High Administrative Court for a long time because it was sent to the constitutionality assessment by members of the new Public Procurement Act, which are now, simple time, a long time ago. What will happen now to all the complainants who have filed charges, and not within the time limit prescribed by law have received solutions, in the end, probably also the contracting authorities and they themselves lost a lot of funds. I think the secretary of state mentioned a number here, but these are things that shouldn't be happening to us because even in the House, the High Court of Justice has made an observation to consider it to the legislative body to amend those provisions, but we hear the Constitutional Court rejects it. From the point of view, investment is good for these deadlines to be shortened, but still the question is, can the High Administrative Court, based on such pressure, make a decision within 30 days because the media also raised the question, what if the High Court had to decide on the case of the Peljega Bridge? Could it indeed make such a decision within 30 days to establish the allegations that they claimed that the offer made by the Chinese consortium was actually dumping prices that would be subsidized by the State and then not in line with the correct competition. So, some of the things that are from this report are visible. As regards the suppression of corruption, I am pleased to mention here in this report, and I find it the most important issue, and on page 8 of this report the following is stated, the new Public Procurement Act of 2016 provides for the obligation of the State Commission to act on official duty in tax cases, these cases are listed in Art. 404 Public procurement laws. An assessment of the legality of the procedures and actions of the contracting authority, with an emphasis on the action of this State body in the appeal procedure, regardless of the stage in which the appeal was made. Now I would like to look back on this part, meaning the obligation to act as a state commission under official duty. What exactly does that mean? Does the State Commission have any action plan, public procurement control or it controls all public procurement procedures that are now in electronic form or are only acting on official duty within those appeals procedures, so, if you can, Secretary of State, explain it a little bit. As far as the public is concerned by the work of the state commission, we have no objections, meaning transparently, publicly available. What you might need to warn, well, maybe you did, maybe you didn't send units of local self-government notice on how I could find it on these pages. Someone here mentioned that some are waiting for your solutions, and simply by going to your site you can see when the procedure is resolved, you might warn them clearly. I don't know if it's a more massive problem or if it's just about exceptions. Perhaps I should point out, when we talk about units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, of course I don't think there are professional people out there who do it and do it well. However, as your cooperation with them, are you just treating them only in the event of complaints when you contact them or there is some different correspondence in the sense that their tenders would be as high-quality as possible? Here, to conclude, the report is well-made, professional and we will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130412	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Dear colleague Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130413	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm looking for a 10-minute break, on behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI, to consult on our further daily activities, given an incident that just happened here at HS. Today, students and high school students from Buzet came to the Assembly, and as the National Day of Fight Against Peer Violence is marked, young, high school students and their teachers wanted to send a symbolic message here in the highest representative body of the state in such a way as to dress up recognizable pink T-shirts, such as this one I am now wearing, in which the marking of that day is known. But dressed like that, they're forbidden to enter the HS gallery, so I ask what kind of message is being sent to those young people, young people who are educated, who have a desire, who are persistent, who are aware and more than we might think. Dear colleagues, colleagues, young people today, they are everyone's target group, politicians, media, the entire marketing industry, but young people are just not naive. We were with them a little while ago. They're bitter, actually. Today's ban on young people wearing T-shirts that they wanted to express their position may be one of the answers why young people today do not see the perspective in this country and leave Croatia. It is fortunate that today young people have been here from Istria, Istria which is open, multicultural, respects and cherishes civilization values, and that is why more people are evicting to Istria than can be said, moving, of course, which makes a difference in other areas where young people move from. Please also show the President of the Parliament, which is why high school students from Buzet today are banned from entering the HS gallery dressed in T-shirts like the one I'm wearing right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130414	Dear colleague Daus, perhaps I agree with you in substance when it comes to young people, but you asked for a break on the agenda point, that is, on a subject that has nothing to do with the agenda point. I let you say it all the way. This inquiry of yours is protocold according to the Parliament Secretariat, so I'm sure it will give you a proper answer, so I can't grant you a break because it has nothing to do with the current agenda. Thank you very much. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130415	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. After what we had the opportunity to hear that the students of a high school were forbidden to go to a gallery, it is quite difficult to go back to this topic and regardless of why a colleague in the search for a break really was no longer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the Rules of Procedure are different but it is something that we must all express our apprehension and ask the President of the Croatian Parliament for an urgent reason why it happened because it is absolutely unacceptable and inadmissible that we know more what the day is about, we know that this Croatian Parliament voted it, we know that at this very moment when I begin to talk about the subject of which it is being sent out, that we have too often sent out the pictures of the empty assembly, especially those who are members of the relevant committee, therefore what would be a beautiful picture of the Croatian Parliament, that we have had children up here in that shirt, that one picture, that we sent out there were too often sent out, because of the pictures that were talking about the empty meeting, this picture that this was actually not really serving the highest house. I will return to the topic because I always try to be and respect the Rules of Procedure and be in line with it, so the topic I will talk about is the report on the work of the State Commission to control the public procurement process for 2017, but I have absolutely used this once again to highlight what it is. We will accept this report at the GLAS and HSU. You can watch the report in your formal work and in your content. So it's rightly done, it's rightly done, and in the formal part, it's rightly made and the contents that are listed, it's always good that somehow for the future to be, you refer yourself to data to other data that were from previous years, but somehow it would be good to maybe compare that reports to see what progress is made because what we want, so the Public Procurement Act when it started at all, is a big difference from the moment it went into application of the Public Procurement Act, it's old and until today, the processes have changed significantly. It was those times when we had something carved in the stone and it was forever. What is important is that through these reports we see and see what processes are changing, what happens with public procurement, I often know how to set an example there in the early 2000s I was in the Netherlands and then I met with public procurement in the first place, then the public procurement in Croatia was also posthumbs, in the Netherlands which is a member of the EU then had a long-standing experience that was related to public procurement, and then the complete Netherlands talked about the fact that the purchase of flowers for big cities was given to a Belgian company. This was at the level of national shame at all, so the first association of the Netherlands is flowers and at that time they questioned the Public Procurement Act at all, what should be changed, how should be changed because at that time and in their Public Procurement Act there was one element and that was the lowest price and that Belgian company offered a lower price than some Dutch. I have to admit that I didn't understand at all what they were talking about, what they were talking about, what they were so excited about, I have to admit that today and after all the topics of public procurement in Croatia, I understand what they're talking about. Each report reads in a different way and reads some elements that can be defined so that fellow Maras read it about the city of Zagreb, I would read it with two basic topics. The first is the topic where you define or state the most common reasons for making a complaint and the most frequent irregularities identified by the State Commission. And especially this when you talk about specific errors by the bidders and specific errors of the client. So that's something that you've found out in one place how many of the most specific errors the bidders have made. Now, in the report it would always be interesting to see what it is compared to 2016, or in the 2018 report, it would be convenient to compare whether there are any changes, what exactly am I going to say? If all those who are bonds of public procurement, or all those who have, have to act, it would be good to use the experience of the predecessor in their experiences. So otherwise we and it's characteristic of the human race that we all love to feel everything on our skin because we think we're much smarter than those who were before us but those who come after us are sure that they're smarter than us. So let's see, these are defined what were the mistakes, it's defined what it was and see if there was any progress in 2018 compared to 2017. Now, I kind of think that education is very important and it's very important that you have both counselling and seminars and everything else for those who want to learn will learn, for those who won't learn, they won't, you can't stop them together from going, but what's good is to see if there's a certain improvement, whether there's some progress, or if we're spinning around in circles like that cat that hunts itself or we're spinning around in circles, and in that circle we're not making any progress, and in the context of that, we'd actually connect it immediately with the sequel. The law that was on public procurement in 2016 introduced a name called the most economically favourable offer where 90% of the price is and 10% are other criteria. I have to admit that when the law was both in the debate and when we discussed it, everyone kind of ignored that 10% of the other criteria, for what reason? For a very, very prosaic reason. At a time when it's only a price, your procedure is very simple, the lowest price and you can't make a lot of mistakes and you don't have many elements. The same way to the commission in that part is easier or to work, you have the lowest price element and you don't get into the criteria, but it's wrong, so we only have the lowest price. What do we want to get? We want and go to public procurement to get the best possible public money, so it's quiet, that 10%, that other criteria, are absolutely acceptable to me, and maybe if I wanted to discuss it further and see that maybe that 10% is increased. What would be interesting would be interesting in one discussion with colleagues from the commission to see if you have those 10% where the criteria are, a little bit there is that at first it was different, that people and those criteria that they can have, really very modestly applied, but and that's something important, you through those 10% more criteria actually ensure that for public money you get something that is best, that is not, we all made sure that this cheapest price isn't exactly every time the best element. And now there's this report, and I'm reading it in this context, whether through the next amendment of the law or at the moment when there's going to be some new law or change, to increase those 10% to some other percentage, maybe more detailed criteria, maybe introduce some other criteria, because the introduction of criteria is a job for everyone, for those who are discussing public procurement, but it's also a job where you have to appreciate something, but if we go with that point of guidance to best use public money, then it seems to me that this is an extremely good thing, and that should actually be done in that sense, to see whether they're still or liberalized, so leave them free, so, it's one thing that requires discussion and that in the future they'll definitely cause certain and the dilemma and the reason that your reports are always in which they're good things to be read. It's hard to speak on behalf of the club, and I believe in individual discussions, not to refer to the table that's on the page. 23 Where, of course, there is a table with received solutions, with complaints that were in public procurement procedures where there is a convincing winner and nobody else near the City of Zagreb. So, when you look at the number of objects received, or which complaints, how many complaints were adopted, how many procedures were, of course, convincingly there, the City of Zagreb is, therefore, behind that HEP, HEP has in numbers in absolute and relative and double the City of Zagreb. Now, why is the City of Zagreb here, you can read it on a few things. The first thing that is really a subject to you and to see that in the City of Zagreb is not only the main city of the state, that has the largest number of inhabitants, but that in terms of sustainable development, obviously the most activity is happening in the City of Zagreb although it is difficult to compare the first one, the first is the Split-Dalmatia County is with the number of procedures 19, then the City of Zagreb is 917, therefore, absolutely disproportionate, but I would say that it speaks disproportionately about regional development, but it is one topic for something else, but it is one topic for the City of Zagreb to actually have a public procurement topic in the City of Zagreb, that there is no such thing as to ignore it all together, but I will not say anything new about what the city has already said, I will not say anything new to the city of Zagreb, but actually the mayor of the city of Zagreb is very specificly managed by the city of Zagreb, that there is no part of the way that it works in any way, nor the current moment, and not even the future of the city, and the city of which is very much more expensive, the city of the city and the city, the city of Zagreb is the city of which is important, the city of which is very much more important, the city, the city, the city of Zagreb, the city of which is the city, the city and the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb is not much, the city, the city of Zagreb, the city, the city of which is the city of which is the city of the city of the city of Zagreb, the city, the city, the city, the city, the city of the city, the city of the city, the city of the city of the city, the city, the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of Zagreb is very, the city, the city, the city, the city of the city of the city of the city of the city, the city of the city, the city of the city, the city of the city, the city, the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb, the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of Zagreb, the city, the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb, the city, the From this table when it comes to the City of Zagreb, I read this, when it comes to public enterprises, there you can really read two things. One thing is whether, I read it and the activities that certain companies do because somehow I read that then the works that go through public procurement are those that are high, do something more, but that's the topic of something else. To conclude, we're going to accept this report, it's very correct, I haven't discussed the form in my debate, I've talked about the content, and I've talked about all the elements that can and should be read from such reports. These reports, of course, are very easy to pass in HS, but I read these reports as a background for something else, one basis is to make a step further, the second basis is when changes to regulations are being made, that these changes of regulations are really following what you've been working on and what public procurement is about is the same as other processes, we should see improvement through the following reports, see actually certain steps, and so should be experienced. I have to admit that when I did this debate I kind of structured it a little bit differently, but what happened in the Croatian Assembly today, which my colleagues in the IDS warned me about, I have to admit, is something that in the context of public words, public speeches and all the opportunities we've had to see and hear these days, and I'm not going to refer to Mr. Jezerinac or I don't know what to call him, but what happened today is that some kids in the day when they wear pink shirts aren't allowed on the gallery, something that can never happen again in this House of Commons or anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130416	I thank my dear colleague, Anka Dark Taritash. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130417	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, when we talk about Croatia, then it is evident that all the research carried out i.e. The agencies carried out on behalf of the European Parliament, Grand Europe, that Croatia is essentially the most corrupt for public procurement, among the most corrupt in the EU, we are the leaders of public procurement corruption, public procurement. We are with Bulgaria, Romania, Lithuania at the bottom, we are the leaders, i.e. We are at the head of the EU on corruption due to public procurement and these are the research commissioned by the European Parliament. These are statistical indicators of the report itself when we see here, this is also a demonstration of this report to see that in Croatia public procurement is causing damage, according to calculations around 15% of GDP annually, and that there can be huge money savings, not only damage to GDP but also to entrepreneurs, people who compete and people who want to be competitive, simply destroy these people, destroy and GDP, destroy development, destroy the perspective, therefore one of the reasons why public procurement is the most corrupt country in the EU that we call on is Croatia that has an average level of corruption. I'm from these statistics indicators you've provided us, you've done it in accordance with the regulations as the report is delivered and therefore, it's visible but it's really amazing how much it's holding back the development of that public procurement, how much money you can't invest, how much financial investment or run when we see from 1047 public procurement that 52 essentially were complaints were adopted or cancelled tenders, 52%, that's a huge amount, it seems to me that somewhere around 45 billion kuna is totaling annually, somewhere on average through public procurement. I don't know how much it was in 2017, but you've probably entered that information, too, but by reading this, when I look at how much this corruption is, I mean, we're going to start from the example of HEP 65% of the complaints are passed, i.e. Public procurement has been cancelled. Here is Croatian water, 91% of complaints, so 24 have been resolved, essentially 20 have been rejected. So the appeal was accepted and the public procurement was cancelled. These are huge damages, otherwise Croatian waters are known to charge for those jobs that have not been done, I know that all citizens, households, legal persons pay for Croatian waters and I know where I come from, that they receive money for the maintenance and cleaning of channels, I have never seen anyone clean that up. So where does the money go? So it's pure crime and corruption. Somebody's got that money in their pocket. I can testify, here, you can come to me, and probably in your neighborhoods coming from Slavonia or Zagreb, these channels are not being cleaned. And citizens, legal persons, entrepreneurs, households, they have to pay here neatly because if they don't pay, there'll be a deal. These jobs are not done, so it's a setup, it's known that it works that way, it's just a secret that these jobs are reported, they get companies that are politically similar in Croatian waters, which is politically similar, it's set up, it doesn't come out as a buffer to keep that, the water supply to clean the thread of it, the water goes where it goes, it goes downhill, it's easier, if it's flood, there'll be a flood, if there's no flood, it won't be, but mostly they get money to maintain an example of water or canals that need to be maintained to prevent elementary disasters. And I know that now, I mean that, in my neighborhood, everyone knows that they've never seen that bogeyman who cleans up some water, something small, something small in the Sinj field where the river Cetina is clean to see but otherwise the money is paid neatly. A colleague, Boric, is laughing but the money is being paid to these entrepreneurs neatly. I claim that this is pure corruption and not me, but the report, so the European Parliament has ordered research, the survey shows that Croatia loses 15%, 60% of entrepreneurs who are competitive, loses the possibility of developing because public procurement is being set up. So here I read numerous cities, and I see Split 100%. All their complaints mean, so everyone who complained about the city of Split, means 5 out of 5. Everyone who complained. Split-Dalmatia County at the top. Split-Dalmatia. So all the public procurements that are being conducted, being conducted against the law or being set up and how many are passing, probably in the case of the paint of the tunnel during Bozidar Kalmeta when they were afraid of the tunnel and it's the strongest public procurement, it was more expensive to paint the tunnels than just to perform the works and with a project throughout the tunnel, probably people from that time know better to explain why it was so. And now that we see these statistical indicators, I'm asking you the Honorable Director, one question that I'm interested in. It's about public procurement because we see that here in a percentage of 52 of those that have been cancelled public procurement, it was mostly a choice, a decision to choose offers or construction or services or I don't know, mostly 52% of the refused choice is, uh, a decision to choose a bidder. Is it possible, I'm saying this very serious question, is it possible during the process to change the criteria without a previous debate, meaning when public procurement of groundless debates goes, means, the financial part and references. That's what I'm interested in, because it's very important to me, as far as my city is concerned, to a very important public procurement, which is in collaboration with SAFU and... SAFU, there they were all obviously involved, which is why this public procurement, in the town council, council members, was designated to have been annulled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there was an attempt, to choose, means, more expensive public procurement, instead of 20 million kunas of 30 million. So 10 million kunas were made an attempt, because the criteria changed during public procurement without prior consultation. Is it legal to change the criteria during the procedure, without prior consultation? That's all I care about, because we see that they're so intertwined, from local, state, regional, all insinuations,... that it is not illegal for them to change prices and references. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I can understand that means, once again, that this question is terribly significant and important to me, because I see that it works for public procurement and setting up jobs for companies, which will fund a campaign for the parties to function towards the summit. And according to SAFU, which is not in charge, but it does, means that this one, they suggest essentially how we should be treated, but I see that this is quite well tied, with certain ministries, and therefore Croatia loses 15% of GDP, which is why we have no competition, which is why they fear tunnels three times, because of that. Because the Croatian state is the leader of corruption in the EU, according to research paid by the European Parliament. Bulgaria and Romania and Lithuania and Cyprus are behind us. The most corrupt state, the most corrupt state, and at least one of these minor problems that are highlighted, is public procurement, with the judiciary public procurement is the main brake. So when I see Croatian waters, 91% of illegal public procurement, i.e. The complaints are respected. And the people, pay, of course, that furniture jobs to party members, godfathers and such, are arranged neatly, I can, on a sonic story, an attempt that was, a company from Imotski to be set up, to destroy a Cetina who has a tradition, Cetina's company from Sinj, which has a low construction, long-term, but since it was a good link with the then HDZ president, that entrepreneur from Imotsky, it was meant to destroy that firm that had a tradition, in order for that godfather from Imotsky to get the maintenance, cleaning those channels, so that it wouldn't... And no one, I've never seen a banger in my area, that went out a little with Cetina there di being seen, that he did something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's that money going to? In whose hands, in whose pockets, there is no competition. You have to be politically-like to get a job. So we're at the top of corruption, your report speaks, this data speaks here, we see, the data is, I think Croatian television, 78% is cancelled public procurement, 78% because of that... Your report is correct, but we are, Croatia is the first to corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130418	I would like to thank my colleague Bulju, next debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On this very report by the Public Procurement Office, I have nothing special to say, because it is simply reports of something that does not provide answers to key questions and it is in that sense, correctly drawn up. And I won't talk about it at all. But I'm going to talk about something else, what this Parliament has to talk to me about as parliamentary representatives, at the phenomenon of public procurement, its coverage, which it opens up a space for corruption existing and existing, and most importantly, I'm going to propose a solution, because today I've listened to the phenomenon of previous speakers, no one has offered a solution, how more effectively to regulate the public procurement system, so I'm going to change it on behalf of the party, change it for Croatia, our financial committee and the economy have worked on it for months. We talked to people who are professionals in the public procurement system, so you'll hear about it. The first information is that it could be in the procurement system, so-called. Bagatellial purchases of up to 200,000 kuna could be saved at least 2 billion kuna, and if we know that the total volume of public procurement in Croatia is about 45 billion kuna, then total savings, meaning so on. With large purchases, they can increase by an additional 4 to 5 billion kuna, meaning on this segment of large public procurement. Now, since we know that these 45 billion kunas are about 14% of Croatian GDP and even 1/3 of the expenditure of the state budget, then we see that it is a space that is extremely interesting and vulnerable to waste, corruption and fraud. Now what's more important to point out here? I said they were so-called. The simplest person says that they're about 11 billion kunas. There are about 40,000 contracts with various suppliers, performers, and for this segment of large purchases of HRK 11-45 billion, there are about 15 thousand contracts. Since the system of simple small bagatile part of public procurement is arranged, so he, I won't say he's not arranged, because everyone can determine the conditions, the malts he wants to put on his website, he doesn't have to put on his website, he can invite suppliers whatever he wants, which he won't, so it's really El Dorado for the public procurement system. You see, when we say "bagatel public procurement," it's about $11 billion, then it's a really big area, a big part of the cake that has to be arranged, gentlemen. Since you are not legislators, I suggest you start, you are experts in this area, so that is what you are doing, and I will change the name of the Party We will tell you Croatia how to do it. Let's do it in this area of order and save about 2 billion kuna per so-called. a simple or leprosy public procurement and that is certainly possible. Who are the biggest users of these public procurements are already mentioned here, 1/4 is in Zagreb, but 2/3 of the total value of public procurement is in Zagreb, so here we need first of all to solve this problem and solve it. Now I'm going to say something that isn't regulated by the Public Procurement Act, that's like getting drugs, we have a big health problem. So we here in the assembly have to be serious people, talk to arguments, data and offer suggestions, and not as I see here during the debate, people here are carrying out promotional action, preparing for European elections, scenarios, etc., but okay, citizens will know who does what in this assembly at all. So I'm going back to the drug problem, they're not covered by the Public Procurement Act and they're not subject to it. The total amount at the annual level paid for by the health care system reached 6.2 billion kuna. You know what's interesting about that? There is interesting that the amount, the total amount for the supply of medicines from 2003 to 2013, was around 5 billion kuna, it suddenly increased from 2014 by 24% to 6.2 billion kuna. So doesn't it make sense to you, doesn't it sound illogical for you to reduce the citizens of Croatia, while 24% has increased means the value of getting medicines. It's about original and generic drugs and it's an area that needs to be arranged. I am responsibly saying that at least 10% of the 6.2 billion on drugs can be saved if this area is settled, but I have an argument, so I'm always talking about arguments. You know how much the price difference can reach a generic drug relative to the original, even 90%. Do you know how long it takes to make the original medicine, over 10 years, and you can do the generic medicine in a few months, you don't need that much testing, but watch out, but it can reach 90% of the price of the original medicine. Here you can see that huge space is how to edit a health system. So all we can do is save up here and we can start to pick it up, and we can centralize at least 650 to a billion kunas, just on that segment, just on that segment. What else can be said here when we talk about public procurement? As Croatia's highways acquire loans, you see Croatian highways are a special story, it will be about how debt refinancing was done in HAC I will talk about it another time. However, there you do not know by public tender at all what the interest rate was you know, but about that then, it will be an opportunity to talk about it. But if we have any solution from the Party, we change Croatia, so here you see it. The first part should be touched, so-called. easy purchases up to 200,000 kuna is a system of automated, electronic auctions. What's going on here is someone's going to say, so we already have, so you just have, now it's just being published means something's going on and finally who's elected. Here's the thing, you see. It's very logical, it's good, it works in some other developed countries, and that's what we're going to eliminate means all possible problems and corrupt activities. Let's assume that some public firm is launching a tender for the purchase of a consumer material, 10 days is the deadline for the application, the value is up to 200,000 kuna, for example, and in the second step, it can also be applied to larger purchases. 10 Everyone participates, everyone has the means to come online to open, see and register. To offer the price exactly for a particular product, let's say that one product to be simple, to be bought, 10 days end auction, which means auction, the same one that made the first day offer he can on the third day after seeing that some others offer more favourable, he can repeat his offer, go on better terms. And what's going on for 10 days? 10 days close the system, everything is clear, everything is known and one that has the best offer, and everyone has seen it, he will be elected. All clear, but why don't they want a ruling coalition like this, so because you can't fool around, you know, these machines, the computers solve everything. So that's the system that needs to be solved. And we will certainly after the next elections, when we will citizens, by their will, participate in the government, in the executive government, immediately implement this system and save only 2 billion kunas. So I described it to you. If she accidentally gets elected to that contest by the company that messed up, lie about not delivering what she promised, she will be punished for not being able to participate at all for the next five years. So we have clear criteria. This means a concrete proposal for anti-corruption to finally save you billions, I've only singled out one segment, I've talked about drugs, and imagine big projects. So, very, clearly, specifically, that's how we speak in the party to change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130420	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. We have replicas. Dear colleague Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130421	Here's a esteemed colleague of Lovrinović, you spoke from your point of view of some of the suggestions that I am attached to in the next context. As mayor, I have experience in the way the competent authority handles the procurement process. My personal judgment is that this body is a set of teams of competent people doing a very good job, but from my point of view, I think there's one problem. They're too few. By ruling whoever they are, they employ thousands of people in other ministries, and this body that handles public procurement procedures is unable to strengthen itself with an additional number of people's employment, and I think that's where they should be supported. Croatia is crying out for investment, Croatia is not successful in EU funds and all EU-related investments in projects, schools, kindergartens and should help them resolve procedures more quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130422	I thank my colleague Sponza, my colleague Lovrinović's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130423	Thank you. Dear colleague Sponza, you say there are few people in the office. These people have yet to be given the authority to do what they need to do, they need to be introduced immediately, but I have no dilemmas, it will not be done by the ruling trade team now, it will only be done by new people, we will cleanse, blow Croatia away. And it won't be necessary, you say, and even you know it and it won't take a lot of people to work on it, just in the office they'll need it because this is going to be automated. So, then, in the office should be then, he just needs to be in control of what he's doing, so let's apply that information, telecommunications, we can do anything. But you know, if you apply it all, then there's no lurking and messing around, and that means some people are building their own approach to it. This segment of public procurement in Croatia is terribly important, we have to solve it but I say only new people who have knowledge and who are honest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130424	I thank my colleague Lovrinović. The next replica of my colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130425	Thank you very much. A colleague, Lovrinovic, Croatia is the most corrupt country due to public procurement. One of the key is public procurement. So we see that 52% of public procurement basically had to be, the basic complaints were admitted and they were delayed. It's huge money. How many people have to do public procurement, how much does he pay? And in the end, that money that needs to be invested for setting up procedures is basically standing instead of investing. Our entrepreneurs are also at risk, we are headed into, in Europe, as the Republic of Croatia, as the most corrupt country for public procurement. And not only that, but we MPs cannot get an answer whether it is the law to change the criteria during public procurement, without prior consultation during the already launched public procedure, references plus prices. I can't get it, why? Because they get furniture by the number of company owners they have to set up and that's the corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130426	Thank you, Comrade Bull. My colleague Lovrinović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130427	Thank you. Dear fellow Bulj, here are the people I forgot to welcome from the office at first, they should be given far more authority than the state audit, as well as the DORH, but they must not be obedient institutions. I'm sure all these people are exposed to some kind of political pressure because it's about big money, you know fellow Bull, it's not, left to itself. But I'm saying, you'll understand that, when we introduce this electronic automatic auction, and then there's no, you understand, it just doesn't exist, you can't cheat the open system. But the question arises who fears this transparency, who fears the competition in public procurement. Believe me, a lot of people are scared. And when we go from there, the public procurement will be the first, then Croatia will really breathe and we will finally go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130428	Thank you, dear colleague Lovrinovic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130429	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the state commission. So here's how public procurement works in practice we can look at from a fresh example of the construction of the Sljemjenik cable car, a man who owns a club in the 12-seat parliament even though he won one in the election. And now this selemen cable car costs you 50 million euros, so it's about as much as it would cost a fast track to Zagreb – Delnice. And when you combine the prices of cablemen in Europe a little bit, you can see that no cable car is as expensive as Zagreb, not even Switzerland, not even in the Alps. Say you have in Montenegro a cableman Kotor-Lovcan-Cetinje where it costs 1km of cable, i.e. a pardon 1m 2430 euros. And in Zagreb it costs 10 thousand 400 euros or 4x more. Now let someone explain to me how it is possible that Zagreb has the most expensive cable in Europe and even 4x more expensive than in Montenegro or, say, Sarajevo. You know how? So these exactly 12 MPs need to be reconciled. It's included in the price, it's the price of a cable car. I don't know where they don't buy everything, on Pag, in Rijeka. And that's the model. If that's not the model, I don't know why you have the most cancelled public procurement in Zagreb. The name of Zagreb will be called Bandicgrad or I don't know Brkićgrad, etc. What are all these fountains for? What are all these monuments for? How is it possible that in Zagreb a plastic column costs 800 kuna and otherwise its price is less than 100? How is it possible that the bike stand costs three times more in Zagreb than any other city in the Republic of Croatia? How is it possible that a bench without setting costs £ 4.500,00, and it's worth 300? How is it possible that the trash basket costs 22.00 kn in the City of Zagreb? Have you solved any of this? Do you know how to answer that question? In part, the answer lies in what Mr. Lovrinović said that he was talking about these leprosy purchases, the idea is to get up to £200,000 in public, that there is no appeal for them, and that is exactly the main source of corruption, there is no supervision, and then we will say, on this we will say, the columns, the staples, the pens, the paper, draw the biggest money in our private pocket. You have, for example, a purchase for the City of Zagreb, I don't know, a stapler for a million kunas, then it's divided by quarters, divided, I don't know, by local committees, just that it can't get into this amount of £200,000,00 and then it's profited in that way. Not only is it profiting in this way, but it is this way that a certain local administration is held in power, it is a model of survival in power. So it's proven, it's scientifically proven, to win the Republic of Croatia in the elections, you need 27% of the vote, so not 51%, not more, but 27%. The best way to get 27% of the votes is to buy them, buy them, organise public procurements where you meet certain entrepreneurs, certain companies that then lobby among their workers and among certain social groups to get a voice to a certain person because usually these entrepreneurs are then connected, I don't know, with football clubs, sports clubs, fire companies, fishing societies, hunting societies, etc., the longer this story lasts, the bigger corruption, and that is, the worst of all, the larger taxes. Scientificly proven, I did not say that just now the credit is the main indicator of corruption in a city, the tax, where the largest tax in which the city is, of course, Zagreb. Why is the cut being introduced? The tax is imposed because the money was spent on purpose, when money was spent on purpose, when it went into private pockets, then taxes should be increased, that's the point, again I didn't say, read what economists say. This madness of public procurement starts especially before the elections, then the most important public procurement is, I don't know, all of these things that I mentioned is that, so the cable car needs to be built urgently, the rotor needs to be repaired, it needs to be given to the hospital in Mostar 40 million kuna, it's very nice to run a public money campaign, it's great, you can spend 3 billion kuna for the campaign, and these other poor people have to run a campaign with 500,000,00 kn and then it's like everything opens up, etc., and it's basically that out of all these megalomanic projects there's no use, because later we're left with just debts, and the most important cost of life becomes more expensive and expensive. Of course, the most suffering are ordinary citizens who, if they are not in a similar circle, are not found to say in a clan or in a family under quotes, can simply move out of the environment in which you live, which is unfortunately the vast majority of Croatian citizens and does, most often go abroad. Of course, you're going to ask me in the end, okay, you've detected problems, you've criticised, what solutions are you offering? Here's what I'm going to tell you right now, what solutions I'm offering to teach you on what Professor Prosecution has offered. Lovrinović. One, cut the cut, no more cut, cover yourself with the budget how much you owe. Two, limit your mandates to local leaders to 2, just as the mandates are limited and I don't know, the President of the State, etc., prohibit the accumulation of functions, why the mayors and the mayors here are MPs, there's no such thing, choose either the mayor or you're a representative. Further, implement a territorial reconstruction, as few of these public procurements, as few of these commissions, as fewer politicians as possible, it will be less corruption, very simply, reduce the number of politicians by 50%, corruption will fall 50%, very simply, increase 50%, corruption will increase. Furthermore, it is necessary to consider stimulating the election because only those who have interests or are forced to leave, not to say that they are ordered to go out, honest citizens simply do not go to elections, become passive, and that is not good. This could solve the issue of administration much better and the issue of representation much better. Facilitate the referendums, and do not ban them from what you have obviously been doing, especially for the past few months. Not to mention the lex sheriff whose local referendum is almost absolutely forbidden, the conditions are so strict that it's practically impossible, impossible to... Furthermore, instead of the price criteria in public procurement, introduce other quality criteria, e.g. the speed of performance, the use of permanent materials, the length of the warranty periods, the previous experience of the performer, etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, in public procurement, enter codes and independent commissions. All public procurements for public service employment have been set up. Set. They first agree on who's going to be employed, and then a public tender is being called, I guarantee you so. Even for the maid and the janitor and someone I don't know about, which is least paid, it's seen as a political, party-like family. And until that is resolved, until it is resolved, no reports of you and this measure taken will unfortunately have a positive effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130430	I thank my colleague Bunjac, we have replicas, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, you talked about public procurement in the City of Zagreb, you know that Most until a few days ago he published a document saying that the City of Zagreb lacks a billion and 400 million kuna in the budget, probably that the document had reached another political party, would never have been published, we published it. What is interesting is that these losses relate most to 2017 since these reports were. You were talking about prices in the City of Zagreb, about columns, so it's not just a matter of price, it's the amount of these columns, you know that there's a bander in which they actually keep these steps, 20 pillars, so the amount is the same, because it's being placed where it doesn't need to be. I watched the price of a basket in a shopping mall, which is cheaper in a shopping centre than in public procurement in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130432	I would like to thank my colleague, Sladolev, for the response of my colleague, Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130433	Thank you very much, Agent Sladolev. Like I said, the longer someone in power, the bigger the problems. I also know about some other bizarre cases of public procurement, for example in the City of Zagreb is ordered a course of Word of 20 hours for 50 thousand kuna. Let's say there's such a case of public procurement. But as I said, the solution exists, the solution is actually too simple. Limit the mandates of local leaders to 2. Let people change in power to come new generations, and on the other hand, whoever's in power doesn't have to think whether or not they're going to get the next term. He'll simply know in advance that he won't get it, and then he'll be less vulnerable to any blackmail or influence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130434	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac, next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130435	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I was encouraged by your debate, that perhaps it should be said that there are two types of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, those who are networked and those who are not networked, of course not on the broadband internet, but on all of what you mentioned, so, from public procurement, above all, those who are dedicated to public budgets and local self-government units, then, data from the top 5 counties where they are most employed, in the budget, budget users, in the first place Lika Senjska, you know who is in 2 places? The city of Zagreb, amazing. Third Sibenik Kninska, Sisak Moslavica, Vukovar Srijemska then Slavonian County. A third of the employees are in the public sector, based on budgets, public procurement. So those who are leaning on public procurement and out-of-state procurement are sponsors, actually, as they say? They're funding political parties. When he was a representative of the Audit Office, I suggested that those who receive money through public procurement cannot finance political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130436	I would like to thank my colleague, Sagar, for the response of my colleague, Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130437	Thank you very much, Representative Žagar, so you are absolutely right that we have 2 Croatians, one privileged, and the other, let's say normal, honest Croatia, in the end I feel it on my own skin. I'm a doctor of the history of science, who had to work until I entered the Parliament in elementary school and I was told in my face that I would never work at college, ever, as long as I was alive. And when I asked why I wouldn't work, then they told me, so you're not UDBA. And that's it. Then I asked what that meant? Then they said look, if you know how to deal with the ruling structure, then you'll work. Now I ask you, Mr. Sagar, what do you think, if I was good with Mr. Brkic or Mr. Jandrokovic, would I work at the university, I guarantee you would. But thank you very much for that, but I still don't thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130438	I thank my colleague Bunjac, the least rector. I welcome students and students of Zagreb School of Economics and Management from Zagreb and their professors and professors, welcome and pleasant stay in the Croatian Parliament. ... We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130439	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing that public procurement is one of the ways in which money is drawn and furniture is competed. It is explained in the previous debate, i.e. in the discussions that preceded, that the purchase of up to 200,000 kunas does not have to be held and that it is called so-called competition. It's a great deal to get. And then whatever gets it, which is a little bit less, huh, either splits or simply doesn't need to do it, it's important that the bill doesn't go past 200 thousand kuna and that units of local self-government, whatever it is, buy literally whatever it wants with a direct contract. However, the question arises, what if something is not a bazaar, if the price goes beyond 200 thousand kuna. How do you compete with this furniture? Well, it's a simple thing, not to say we're looking for a car and a class, but to say, we're looking for a car with aluminum fengs, with a, I don't know, steering wheel, which I don't know, changed by something, by some skin or whatever. Ugl. That's what you call it. And then you just put so much of the individual stuff you're looking for, which actually, how do you do it? Let's say there's one car you want to buy. And you're just looking at the specifications of that car, its length, its width, I don't know, the axis space, whatever it is you know that that car is the only one in that class that has these characteristics and you just put it on, that, that, that, that, that, that, and finally, when everyone makes offers, it's clear that only one car can pass or only one car will be bought. And the same way was done with military planes, there were cheaper planes, of course there were, and new planes were cheaper, but they said we just want these planes that had some kind of change that the Israelis were doing, and only the Israelis had those planes, and then they said if we didn't give up on the competition. And finally, I want to tell you this, that the main problem in human nature, or the main problem facing society, is not the legislative nature. Because laws will always go around, the main problem is human nature, if man is honest, even if the law allows him something unfair, he will remain fair, and on the other hand, if the law is the best possible in the world, but if people are dishonest, and people will adapt that law to themselves. And that's where we actually come into the conflict between me and the law and the spirit of the law. He writes on his own at Exodus 20. Through Moses, God gives 10 commandments and says, "Here are all the commandments you must observe, they are very simple, 10 of them, says if you stick to it there is no problem. And we in Croatia have made 100 laws, sublegal acts and regulations, and where this has led us, took us to a state of lawlessness would dare to say legal anarchy, legal uncertainty and in fact the despair and agony of citizens. Or as one philosopher once said, if I remember correctly, he said, the more corrupt society, the more corrupt he needs, the more laws he needs, and I'm afraid that multiplying the law won't get in Croatia to multiply justice and that what our people need is not yet law or another 100, 1,000 I don't know what laws, but that we need a change of heart, a change in each of us for the better, that each of us rejects evil and accepts good. If we stick to it, then we will be well independent of what the laws are. And I want to tell people that change will not come from the top of the policy, because people who are in the assembly are just pictures of the average voter's condition, so if the average voter is unfair, and the average politician will be unfair. Why? Because corrupt politicians can only choose corrupt voters. If the voter sells his electoral right or his vote for 500 kuna, what will be the power that such a voter will choose? Instead of putting us as a society to blame for the problems in the state against politicians, every member of the community who has the right to vote should ask what I personally did to make a change. And it was this deviation between the spirit of the law and the form of the regiment that was being carried out that was a problem both in the Old Testament and in Jesus ’ day, that they kept to some forms, but the essence of the law was being bypassed, Jesus constantly pointed to them, and so is today. They stick to the form, whenever they catch someone with their fingers in a jam, what they say, it's all by, it's all by the law. And indeed de jure, the legal forms have stuck to it, but whether the spirit of the law is missed I'm afraid it is. And as I said until there is a change in the heart and the politicians and the people, this will not go well, or end well. And I just want to tell the politicians who are sitting here, and also those who unfortunately don't sit, that the reason they're away from the people is because they reject the essence of the law, they forget that they're not just here for themselves, but also for those who chose them, or for the people who live in our country. Instead of submitting their service to the general good and interest, they unfortunately subdued themselves, dared to say that they were deceived, deceived by an old liar described in Genesis chapter 3, who lied to both the first humans and today is lying to them. You can lie to them today, you can steal, you can cheat and you'll be fine in your life, but don't kid yourself, we can't be good at the end if we do evil. It is a great error and I know that my voice here is lonely, I know that you are here more and I know that I am funny to you and that this is irrelevant to you what I'm saying, but eventually we'll all have to face the truth, we'll all have to finally admit who's true, which is true, or we'll have to answer for our actions. Of course, you probably think that the only relevant judge is corrupt judges of Croatian justice, the Croatian judiciary and that is your hope, your hope for a good life is actually or for success is that the system is corrupt. You created this system, of course, that this system caress and protects you, but the question that you must ask is whether there is no justice over the Croatian judiciary, that there is no judge over Croatian judges that I will not say so, so that there is no final and absolute justice. It all comes down to it. If you don't believe there's ultimate justice, then you can do whatever you want if you control the judiciary and that's what you do, do what you want. He said to himself, "Our prime minister can do whatever I want." Now, I can do what I want, he says, but he is in great error and you are mistaken if you believe him because Andrej Plenkovic cannot give you eternal life, he can't give you any hope or good news, he can only give you maybe some passing decomposable things, and eventually, if by any chance you turn away from him, you will find yourself in trouble as perhaps chairing here, etc. And I really want to tell you that the mind in the head and the gentlemen of HDZ, you claim to be believers, you claim to serve, so let's tell God, Jesus, you want to give state money. The Catholic Church but the question is whether in spirit you respect it all and read the Bible, that's what I wanted to say. [[Upadica Brkić: Thank you, colleague Pernar.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130440	Comrade Pernar, your time is up, amen. I'm setting a break until 14 o'clock and 15 minutes. Thank you very much. It's the 13th.59 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14:15 HOURS]] Next up for discussion, dear colleague Ante Babic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130442	Thank you, Vice President of HS, the Honorable President of the State Commission with his associates. Here, during today's debate, in fact, you could hear everything and everything, as if we don't all have the same document about your report and, in fact, it was, as always, least discussed. I was expecting, say, when the predecessor, my esteemed colleague Pernar spoke about it, in fact at the very least speaking about this report, he held on to some spiritual subjects more, but in these subjects we learned that Jesus lived in the Old Testament, that Moses... He was in Novome and he tried to be nice and sweet, at one point you might have realized that this was some kind of spiritual restoration, not a point related to this state commission report of yours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, if we could just go back a few years, or if you want 15 years of what the state commission is doing today, there's been a huge, massive advance for public procurement control. It was created in openness, it was done in one transparency, the expeditionivity of the work itself, and the report itself shows that when you talk about the human resources that are at your disposal and everything your employees are dealing with, 19 of them and we've heard from the president of the state commission that there is another employee, i.e. a professional service to monitor practice and conduct in court proceedings, which is very important in order to have one more uniform court practice. You said yourself that this report covers about 40% of the items that are related to 2016, so according to that Public Procurement Act, which was valid until 01.01.2017, when a new Public Procurement Act was passed. I should certainly commend it and often enter this resuscitating site and, as far as I've seen, about, they have about a million inputs, so on the very site, which is very indicative and is actually talking about that the contracting authorities and all those involved in this procurement process can be informed in due time both through your portal and via smartphones. So you get information in a fraction of a second. The statistical indicators that you are talking about here, I would rather have discussed it today, in fact, they individually represent this number of complaints and cases in the work of the complaints received, the number of complaints received against the stages of the proceedings, the duration of the appeal procedure, which was specifically mentioned here, in fact in administrative courts where some are doing it in 220 days, and some 563 days and more. Of course that's what we need to work on. The average time for appeal, i.e. 30 days for decision-making. And that should be made clear and loud. The mechanism at the most economically favourable price was actually very well spoken by our colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club Mr. Boric and he was also suggestive here, that in fact, he was making certain recommendations and he considers it, and many of whom we communicate believe that these thresholds that were so far are actually creating certain problems, where in the value assessment itself, it increases by 20-40%, and by the one that is actually planned. So practice shows one thing, and the occasion is, let's say, that these things are being followed closely, and at a time when it needs a legislator to actually change them as such. What I want to say, and what there was no discussion, individually, is that, here, some colleagues are talking about how and in what way corruption should be reduced, so they said they would limit a number of mandates, so they were saying, they were giving a series of proposals, and in fact at least they were talking about themselves, and when you say that they don't, when you see that they don't believe what they're saying or what they're doing with them, then everything becomes comprehensible to them, and so it's all about public procurement, and it's not like that. I will use this time and colleagues at least who are here, but also the public to say that through the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, we had one thematic session that was related to corruption risks in public procurement a year ago and as much as I remember we had 20 different representatives of institutions at that session, from the government itself, ministries, central state offices, agencies, local self-government units, county and scientific communities, if you remember, when we were actually talking about these corrupt... in public procurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, they have been reduced to the least possible. So, then, and this is a visible phonograph record, it was given to suggest what and how could be improved in the public procurement itself of certain things that might speed up the process, but even now the president of the state commission was actually saying that the contracting authorities themselves were actually reluctant to participate in the appeal procedures because they themselves were not sure that this was a good way or they weren't certain of what they would complain about themselves. On the scientific side, in fact, several studies have been presented precisely regarding local administration and self-government units, i.e. the number of mandates with individual leaders of local self-government units. Now, you have one serious problem. If you have a direct choice of unit leader of local self-government, you cannot limit his mandate. So he's chosen directly from the people. The issue is the leader himself how and in what way he will implement and organise it in order to reduce corruption to the least possible extent. That's actually what we were talking about here today during this debate. I think this report that we have ahead of us gives us one full insight for 2017. I want to believe that because of the application of the law of 1.1.2017, the Public Procurement Act, that we may have a slightly different report for 2018, I say a little differently because of the new Public Procurement Act itself, which should actually further improve this report by the State Commission. Perhaps even at the very end, I'm sorry, at the very beginning you had a few replicas, they were related to a list of suppliers that have 5 and more appeal procedures, so this table that actually shows it, it's very well shown, just sad facts, let's just say it doesn't have a total number of cases, so these procedures would look different or would not have led to one wrong path in their discussions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130443	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. Replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130444	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Babic, here I am glad that at the end of this debate we are back on the subject. It was possible to hear anything here today and at least the one about the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, so it seems to me that many colleagues who spoke neither know the law nor have ever been close to the public procurement process. They can only say, therefore, that all public procurement bonds must adopt a procurement plan for each year, they must establish in this plan the subject of procurement, its value, the procedure to be implemented. All public procurement procedures ultimately mean that, at the end of the year, there must also be a document showing how this plan has been implemented, too, and that we are not talking about the cost of purchasing, but there is no sharing of procedures there, because the plan would make it visible, so that those who were speaking so casually today, we were criticising, saying that because of the public procurement of a very corrupt society, really have no idea what they were talking about, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130445	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac. Answer, colleague Babic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130446	Maybe I'm at the very beginning and I thought about talking about it actually when we talk about public bodies then there's the most important budget, from that budget is the very plan of procurement, through this plan of procurement where the funds actually have to be provided, you have a statement of fiscal responsibility, so all the leaders have to take great care of that document because they're actually criminally responsible. When you talk about our colleagues who talked about these things during this debate, then you actually see one surface in all of this but also marginalization of units of local and regional self-government where from this level you can't teach lessons, you actually need more essence in these units of local self-government, working in local self-government to actually know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130447	Thank you, colleague Babic. Next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since I haven't been in the entire debate, I may have missed the Commission President's response to the public procurement process, did I miss it, so I haven't missed it, there's still no answer to the most logical possible question, and that's whether you can sign a contract without having any planned funds? Not 100 000 kn, not a million, not a million, but 3 hundred and 75 million kuna in the city of Zagreb, works on the Sljemen cabler, which is said to be, once again the most expensive cableman in the world who exists and who is paid instead of EU funds, what was logical, countless projects across Europe exists, is paid from the budget of the city of Zagreb completely because EU funds do not tolerate such actions as our mayor does, to sign contracts, that there are no funds, that there are no works in a way that do not even have a clear course of how all of this will work, and on this side it would be good, here I see that even the President has reported, that once again we hear from the relevant services and the law-knowers because these are people who know the law in the eye, it is not as our colleague here Jelkovac who speak, these are the people who, who, when you wake them in the middle of the night, in two hours of the night, and in the nights know that we have been able to give them a clear that they with the money, and we know that we know that we can'll be able to give them the money. And now who's gonna pay for it? And did he thus derogate the congregation of the city of Zagreb, did he injure the Law on fiscal responsibility? So that's where the MPs from his club sit, 1, 2, 3, I see them here. Gentlemen, especially the president of the club should give such an answer, which is why the mayor of Zagreb, by which his club is called, has, in my opinion, been illegally available with certain powers which he has which is to sign a contract on behalf of the city for a project for which the funds are not approved at all? And are they proud of the fact that the city of Zagreb is always a leader in non-transparentity in matters and complaints and how many complaints have been resolved in favour of those who complained etc. And then when we talk about it, we come up with how empty the mayor of Zagreb's sentence is when he says he has a zero tolerance rate for irregularities, or fraud, etc. On the contrary, Zagreb has the most cases that have been resolved and have been annulled on the other hand, it acts in the way that we all know what it looks like, does not read the contracts, makes such statements in court and everything that should not be done by a mayor, he unfortunately does. And on that side, I expect our president to manifest himself here and simply take that subject off the agenda. As far as the report itself is concerned, it is properly drawn up, I hope that this will continue to work. The anti-corruption effect of this commission is invaluable to me, when we look at each other, I would also like the commission to look into the commission to prevent conflicts of interest, which acts as one moral authority in its field. They're not just asking for someone to sign up, someone to complain. As soon as there's an irregularity, this is an irregularity as large as Sljeme, like Medvednica. Here, look at the paradox. So it's about the wire on Sljeme, on Medvednica, and this is an irregularity as big as the Bear, you can't not see it. Like when we come out of the Hall of the Croatian Parliament, from the Croatian Parliament to the square of St. Mark, we look towards Sljemen and we see a beautiful Medvednica, so you can see this irregularity. And I can't tell people who are dealing with it, no, no, it's not, it's not our jurisdiction, we're just gonna look away and we're gonna blow on our own. Who asks us what, if no one asks us anything, even better. We here must all deal with the fact that such public officials, as the mayor himself said, who thus pays the most expensive cableman in the world, do not have the opportunity to do so in the future. So I'll bet that Borica would have been there on Rab, he'd have done a lot of things to him while he was head of the Male Lopar municipality, if he'd acted like that. He must've worked as well as he did, worked on the dog he worked for every contract he signed, he had insurance funds. So on the other hand, why put Boris in a more unfavourable position than Bandic? Or mrs. Juric Alfirev. So what makes some leaders do whatever they want? Is it because of the chips, whether because they have to support it automatically, they support the government of Andrej Plenkovic, so they are allowed to do whatever they want to do. Is that a reason, perhaps? What if Bandic warned himself about it, perhaps he would pull MPs out of his club and they would no longer support the government. Perhaps it is the task of Mr. Jankovic and others who are at the club of Representative Milan Bandic, to cover his public procurement insubsidities with their hands in the Croatian Parliament. Well, that's a problem to me. This is what Croatian citizens must hear, that Croatian citizens must know by the next time the Hungarian national minority chooses, knows that Mr. Jankovic is unreservedly supporting mayor Bandic's impunity. Whether or not some activity has been financed from the City of Zagreb or not, it has nothing to do with Mayor Bandic, in this way, in which the money of the citizens of Zagreb may also be represented, some activities of some minority representatives, i.e. their inventory. Because it's a minority that's more than just making a set or one event, or maybe you have a holiday for a particular population or sports game somewhere. Our citizens need to know that, and on that side, I'm sorry that the issue is ignored over and over again. And I mean, you'll come next time, don't answer it now, the wire won't be made, for a few more years, believe me, but we'll talk about it, especially now that the works have stopped because of certain things, who knows how it's going to work. Unfortunately, the mayor works non-transparently, does not take funds from the EU, because if there is no, if the EU, then there is no half drink model, half... I give it, then it must be done transparently and I am sorry that some here support it, but there are people who see it and I think that the citizens of the City of Zagreb have matured already as far as this kind of governance is concerned and that they are sick of it, when you look at people on the road, as far as the question is concerned, whether they think that Zagreb is managed in a transparent manner and in a good way, 90% will answer you no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here I am once again asking that question, otherwise I welcome this report, I hope you will continue to work as efficiently as you have done so far. I'm just asking you to get more authority, knower of the artery, and from the position of one who understands the problem and not only put it in the technical framework, but also give a little bit of moral under the roof and some who have strayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130449	Thanks to my colleague Maras, we have a few replicas. Dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130450	Thank you very much. I've been listening to you guys Maras all day about the subject of public procurement. I'm not thrilled with what you've been saying, I have no intention of defending anyone, nor is Mr Bandic, but it's quite brave to say that there are no means to secure it, not look at what it says in the budget. I had a little look at you and that development programme, the City of Zagreb Development Programme 2018, '19. '20s, '21st. all beautifully indicated how many years for the cableman Sljeme. So it's not my place, it's not my local self-government, but it says. You also have a guide for citizens, the simplest form of budget, where it tells you how much it is in 2019. So it's not nice to say that someone signed something without having a basis for it, because the fact that they'd be exposed is next to a large office, which he certainly has for finance, that some supervisor would expose it to criminal persecution, because there's nothing done, and there's something that needs to be done. So that's a lot more politics, and less good information and guilty are unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130451	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, the answer of my colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130452	Thank you very much. Mr. Fighter doesn't fit even when you praise him. So, he's not happy, I commended the man here in front of everyone on the open stage, and unfortunately it doesn't fit him either, but since he gave some information here that the city of Zagreb doesn't have, I suggest the mayor take it as head of finance because just in a memo signed by the head of finance, it says that no funds are provided. So, the little help financial from Rab wouldn't come badly to the City of Zagreb, so here, Mr. Boric, if he's looking for a new professional challenge, can find him in the City of Zagreb because he obviously knows something more than people who work in the city's finance office know, so all I've been saying is true. Mr. Boric, don't doubt that I've checked three times what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130453	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130454	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, I'm a little surprised that you don't know the Public Procurement Act so much that you don't know that controlling public procurement procedures is actually an appeal body that they can only act by appeal and react to allegations that are in the complaint, they don't have any other opportunities to be some kind of moral vertical, which is precisely because the bidders who are competing in the procurement process have the greatest interest in complaining about everything they think is wrong with the procurement process. On the other hand, believe me, great public procurement procedures must be carried out by persons who have a certificate and are responsible for this procedure and would certainly not allow themselves any marifetteluke, and on the third hand, I think that you in the City Assembly have your own representatives, and therefore such procedures or decisions on such large procurement procedures are made at the assembly, so if they have such knowledge, let them react according to relevant bodies. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130455	.....to dear colleague Maria Jelkovac.. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130456	The decision was not made and the contract was signed by Mayor Bandic. You said the gentlemen of the commission that are their responsibilities, but I'm not asking them to do anything official here, let them just say whether it's legal or not by law, that's the only thing I'm asking, so nobody's limiting us to say our opinion, so this is a free house, this is saying the words that our citizens listen to, sure people would be interested in whether it's in accordance with the law that the mayor Bandic is his own, be careful, he admits himself has no budget, he says it'll be as long as it takes, we'll be doing rebalances every day, so if he says it means there's no money planned in the budget, and I'm just asking that the president of the commission says that the citizens are hearing because this is a pay phone of the Croatian people, we don't have to bring in any official document, just say, but we have a mouth. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130457	.../...cara Maras/... Next replica, dear colleague Stevo Culey, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130458	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Maras, it is clear to me that you're holding your political rival in his desire to make this city a big city with the construction of a cable car, but you could at least advise him on how to manage the construction of a cable car and all those plastic buildings, yet you were twice the director of Bjelolasica who burned down, so you're the most likely to talk about Bandic's cable company. and about the plans. [[Aggression: A colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130459	Comrade Culej, please adjust your expression to this House of Highs and do not belittle parliamentary representatives, nor MPs, please welcome colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130460	This, this is okay, we hear a lot of new words, so here's the city of cable, that's a word or two words, a term that Mr. Culey would like to put in one dictionary. So, what does the city mean by cable? Here, Mr. Bacic had the same idea. So, please, let's have a little meeting, explain to me and Bacic what the city of cable is. So, on that side, and the other thing that your colleague warned you about, I was never, I wasn't a director twice, I was there for two and a half years, and unfortunately, it's funny to you, but to people who work there is not funny, it's burned out Bjellosica six years or five years after I've gone, six years, but what you're going to do, you're not laughing, it's funny, 150 people are out of work, instead of the state making sure that there's nothing going to be doing there, there's nothing, that's what tragedy is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130461	Thank you, colleague Maras. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130462	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, does it have anything to do with at least the media reports that the performer of the Sljemen cableman Gip pioneer also the owner, built a building on Buzan Street where the mayor of Zagreb has a Penthaus of 300 m2? Is it possible that it is the same company, at least according to USKOK's claims, also related to the ownership of an apartment in Buzan's street that is also the real owner of the city of Zagreb and the formal company Paron as a hidden owner? Is it possible that the Mayor of the City of Zagreb has some personal benefit from the construction of the Sljemjenik cable car? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130463	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130464	Look, give a concrete answer to this last question, very difficult, but when you look at all these things that you've counted, that's the most expensive wire in the world, that's not being financed in the way that it should be financed, that these performers that you've listed here are probably all involved in the work around it, then you can legitimately ask yourself if that's the case and why it is so? And when you take into account that I'm saying something that's not true, so I guess the representatives from the Milan Bandic Club would rebel, say, I mean, I'm hearing about the president of my side or the club, I'd say, that's not true, but here are Mr. Jankovics, Mr. Bilek and Mr. Varda, with a smile listen and talk, that's it, no. So you can see from that side how much volunteering there is to this information so that the conclusion can be any kind of, unfortunately, but you can't be sure that's not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130465	Thank you, colleague Gordan Maras. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and the SNAGA, final word, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130466	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the State Commission. Finally, on another concrete example, I would like to show how public procurement works in the Republic of Croatia and what damage we all suffer together. Here, an example is a specific price of drugs. So we all know that Croatian health care is a huge loser, that we currently have 8 billion kunas of outstanding claims, that this raised health contributions from January 1st by 10%, so from 15 to 16.5, we know that the price of cigarettes, alcohol, I don't know what, taxes and that still that hole can't be covered. About the price of healthcare, 1/4 are drugs. The state pays very many medicines but what is most interesting of all, the state and determines the price of medicines, means it does not determine the price of their manufacturer, but determines the state. And now the interesting question is how the state determines the price of medicines in the Republic of Croatia, and here I'm going to tell you, the state sets the price of medicines by taking the prices of the medicine in Italy, Spain and France, divided by 3 and that's the price of the medicine in the Republic of Croatia. So instead of taking the cheapest possible price of the drug as a parameter, let's say we take Bulgaria, Romania and let's say Estonia as some kind of parameter, we take countries that are 2.3 times the standard, per GDP, and we take it as our own price of the medicine. In view of this, it is no wonder that Croatia has a far higher price for medicines than for any of these countries than for all of them, but for Slovenia, Hungary, Bosnia, Serbia, etc.. We even because of such a product price parameter, we have a situation that the medicine produced in Croatia is cheaper in the neighbouring country than in our country. So literally after one medicine, after one medicine and spending hundreds of thousands of medicines in the Republic of Croatia, there is a loss of 15 to 75 million kuna per year. Thus, forgive the expression, they burn billions and billions from the budget each year that end in private pockets and the debts are paid by Croatian taxpayers. Tax bonds. Who pays the debts to health care? All of us from health care. Who pays I don't know, the debts of the Oilman? All of us from our taxes. And who created these debts? These debts were created by politics, these debts were created by incompetent governments, and debts were created by those who were not able to negotiate the affairs of this in a fair manner or negotiated by any secret arrangements and for the satisfaction of the stakeholders. When we talk about the price of medicines, I would just like to say that in Croatia as much as 75% of the medicines we get, that these are replacement drugs, replacement medicines. Anywhere in the world, the replacement drug is 90% cheaper than the original drug. In Croatia, the replacement medicine is only 30% cheaper. Who's in the interest of what and who's paying for it? Gentlemen, let's imagine very well that HZZO has a budget of 25 billion, that for the Ministry of Health we give 15 billion kuna and that it's still not enough for them to do normal business. Which one of these benefits? Have you ever heard that one pharmacy ended up in bankruptcy, that one drug supplier, one factory had any financial problems, they're supposed to wait 600 days to pay off, they still don't have any least financial problems, and moreover, the salaries are in that dam abnormally high and always come in time. If the issue of public procurement were resolved, I think a lot of budgetary problems would be resolved and all prices in Croatia would fall significantly, and that means that citizens would have a much better standard than they now have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130467	Thank you. Dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives, finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130468	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to once again finally warn that all of this we've been discussing is actually maybe the tip of the ice dream of everything that's going on underneath, which may not be visible to the public, and I'm going to show it vividly on one example. Namely, it's a competition for Corridor 5C, Osijek-Beli Manastir on buildings that were advertised there in public procurement, it was worth 80 and some million kuna somewhere. Two offers arrived at the competition, after which I will not enter into the circumstances at all, is that something was written by the media, after which Croatian roads themselves cancel the competition by the end of the year, claiming that they were themselves, that the tender which they themselves called was illegal. But, look, then on that, their decision to cancel the contest complains about the one, the company that got the job, but that company that didn't get the job. He complains to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and then, on official duty, cancels the tender and orders that payment be made to the complainant amounting to 100 thousand kuna. So these are some things that the public certainly don't sound pretty transparent. The state commission has confidently done the job in accordance with the law. But you see, what the state commission was ultimately doing was just finishing or the final act of everything that preceded it. So the state commission is doing its job, but let's not have any illusions that the state commission will solve the problems of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia. That was enough, and my predecessors were talking about it. The state commission can only mention the Pelješki bridge and indeed everything, including the state commission, which was actively involved in making a decision and, of course, it should not, once again not mention the Pelješki bridge and indeed all of it, and the state commission that was actively involved in this, that all, including the Government of the Republic of Croatia, are well aware that the Republic of Croatia would not come into a situation, not only to pay certain compensations but that even the funds provided for the Pelješki bridge would not even have to be returned. And once again, I say that we will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130469	I thank my colleague, Sagar. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130470	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Director and representatives of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure. The fact that Croatia is at the top, according to research commissioned by the EU Parliament. It is headed alongside Bulgaria, Romania and Lithuania in terms of corruption due to public procurement. Due to these damages, GDP in the Republic of Croatia is projected to be around 15% smaller, that they are deprived of the meaning of competition and competitiveness, means that people 68% of the people who compete, especially when decisions on selecting certain works or services are, in fact, the most damaged, and that's one problem that those of which are quality, competitiveness and essentially failing companies that should be promoted, those that should be served in development, and in fact those who are eligible for party cards, I was talking about, for example, reflecting in Croatian waters that are, here we see that Croatia's water have, what, 100-91% are complaints that are essentially respected, i.e. Calls have been canceled. 91%. It pays these people neatly, these companies are paid to reflect the channels, the wells, which aren't everything, and I'm personally saying that in my neighborhood, where I come from, not even 10% of these channels, these contractors don't know where they are, let alone that they were on the spot. Now I'm talking about the example. We see an example of HRT, 78% of complaints are respected. We see the example of Split, 100%, we see the example of Zagreb, we see the example of the Ministry of Health, we see the example of the Ministry of Defence 67%, so the huge money that should have been launched by certain investments, which should be launched through public procurement, in fact, by the development of Croatian society, public procurement due to furniture and illegality. Croatia is also headed to the EU for corruption from this part. And today, but the second topic, EVO TV, is today deciding that HACOM will move into the hands of the HT monopoly. Without it being the Competition Agency, but we'll talk about it later, that she gave her consent. This cannot be allowed in Germany, the Competition Agency, the protection of competition in Germany, where teleopers come from. So, we're only comfortable with the example, I didn't get an answer, and I expected a response from the public procurement control committee to answer whether it's legal during and public procurement procedures to change the criteria, price references for someone to get, to be eligible, to get someone to change these ratios to get a bigger offer, without prior consultation. It's an example that happened in my town where public procurement instead of 20 million kunas for a ride, 20 and something, went to 30 million kuna. Of course, when it was noticed, it was suspended, but it went that way, it was noticed, but as far as these public procurements are not noticed and passed. This is about EU funds. And everyone talks to the ministry, to the SAF, everyone washes their hands, local self-government, everyone washes, I don't know if it's legal or illegal, everyone gets away with it. Why? That they're in the ground. From local to state level to agencies that are competent. Why? Because 10 million isn't a small amount on one project worth 20 million kuna, it means one third in your pocket. And imagine, reducing the price, and raising the reference in the criteria and thus, normally, to companies that are of course suitable for the ruling, tomorrow pay a little campaign a part of it and thus the public procurement works. I believe that, as I said, public procurement is one of the largest and this shows the EU's research and needs to be talked about and regulated, and bagatel public procurement, 11 billion kunas, up to 200 thousand kunas, 11 billion kunas of bagatel procurement that no one controls. Both local leaders and leaders of companies and public institutions can do whatever they want, even share if the purchase is a million kuna, they divide into enough parts that they do not even need to call public procurement. It is a huge advantage in this way to remain in power from local leaders, from regional leaders to state authorities. That's why I think we should talk about this. And it needs to stop corruption. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We're headed for corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130471	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honored President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Goran Matesic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130472	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank the support and recognition of the results of the Commission's work, remind and thank you for the congratulations, so I would like to remind you that this is the 15th anniversary of the work of the state commission, and I thank those who have expressed some disagreements, remarks and have given suggestions that those who are senior representatives see that the report is improving from year to year so that we will take this into account. Some discussions are, I'm going to sort of refer to previous speakers, some discussions have been, they've connected corruption and competitiveness. State Commission reports due to their statistical scope and conclusions that are limited, as far as they are concerned, only most concern legal protection in part with the application of public procurement rules, but public procurement is both economic and budgetary and marketable. The market is one story that is related to competitiveness, it is when a market is opened in the public sector with public funds and it is called public procurement then it is specific. However, when it comes to competitiveness and when it is briefly and easily linked to corruption, it is relatively narrow, so this one should be taken, these data should be analysed. From that, this famous table on the side, page 23, which is typically statistical, here was read and understood differently, we also gave the number of public procurement procedures so that it could be brought into contact with the number of complaints and the number of those appeals which have been annulled. So, all three of these things, when they're connected, you can talk about someone's success or failure, someone's client. What some speakers were saying is that there is a large part of the money spent in the dung supply, so where there is no complaint, so this picture has to be with what you would say to the glasses. I defend and we discuss the State Commission's work for 2017, not '16, not '18 and not '19. That's where I'm not going to answer, or I'm going to stop myself from answering Agent Maras' question because we're discussing appeal cases from '17. A year. Another reason why I will be confronted with this in response to his question is that his question suggests a legal opinion on a legal situation. The State Commission is an appeal body which makes a decision in a concrete dispute when a concrete appeal is made, I do not think that the State Commission should justify before this body whether it has taken responsibility, whether it acted as a corrective action, whether in 78% of the disputes on public procurement rights it has made its decisions, whether this legal practice is publicly available to all known and what the anti-corruption effect of the decisions of the state commission. However, I will limit myself to what has been set out in the mandate entrusted by the Croatian Parliament and set out in the Law on the State Commission. A fellow esteemed representative of Bunjac asked a question about clarifying his duties when in what capacity and how? The State Commission may act on official duty exclusively in appeal cases, so only after the appeal has been made. She can't act outside the appeal procedure and can't therefore be some kind of inspection, such competencies the state commission doesn't have. So, according to the law, they are pre-prescribed particularly essential violations of the law to which the state commission guards by official duty and that's something that's mostly in '18. and '19. A year to a significant extent as the practice of the state commission has spread this and it is quite familiar. When the state commission contacts the parties, do you out of appeal, Mr. Bunjac, you asked the same question. The State Commission communicates with the parties only within the appeal procedure, asking them to show and deliver evidence for the appeal procedure, so it is a substrate of the appeal procedure, that is, the documentation, the allegations and evidence provided by the parties, that is, on the basis of which we hold that it is a completely factual situation because the parties are stimulated to give in the appeal procedure all facts and all evidence and this is based on decision-making. I would like to respond to the distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash, who also pointed to the need for analysis, with which I absolutely agree and analysis. I think that the public procurement below this statistical report and other statistical reports coming out of the public sector, for example from the Public procurement System Administration, has been slightly analysed, to a small extent lessons and results have been drawn. This report has limited range, but that doesn't mean that science needs to be prevented economically and everyone else from doing this. The most economically favourable offer as a complex criterion. It's on one side, him, the criteria, i.e. the general criteria, including the price and other criteria. He was primarily given as a tool to the client and should be sourced from the needs of the client. It must maintain the needs of the client, it must be a tool to manage its needs, which individualises its need and thus individualizes the best product for itself and the most economically favourable situation. Is that in product sustainability? Is that in the quality that is sometimes measured, sometimes not measured, it's a question of pretty long-term practices, but also of markets. It can't be easily ostracized and written in law. It takes some time for these criteria to be profiled, because they are also economic values. They are profiled in a way that in the public sector someone says, among other things, that someone says... the documentation to verify that the criterion, that the parties provide evidence and that they compete in the highlight of their arguments on the basis of which, and later, the court may decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We said, I said in the opening part, that such complaints are not too much, although there are very few, so even that effect of using the criteria has not been achieved, and these analyses, at least for '17. And later in '18. And to this day they're talking about how the orderers are making some progress, but slowly. So that's something the market will bring. Dear Representative Bulj for the same reason I will remove the answer to your question, because that is a particular question, not a specific subject. I, of course, have an opinion on the legal enquiries you said, but as president of the State Commission of the Appeals Body, I can only act within the limits of the law. And I think that's about all I had to say was answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130473	Thank you very much. He has a whole series of replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130474	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Matešić, you should once again point out what is written in your report, that at the time of writing this report, about 50 proceedings were in the phase of resolution at the administrative courts and what you wrote was an uncertain deadline, when a verdict would be made. And beyond that, you also stated that one part of the proceedings had been suspended because a request was submitted to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of Articles 4.3.4 and 4.3.5 of this Act. I think it should be publicly pointed out that this does not suit even the contracting authorities who offered their goods and services that they do not know when they would end the dispute and surely that we are all losing together. And we've heard that someone around 2 billion kunas has been blocked that way. Such a bang must be interrupted in Croatia and the Administrative Court must take a shorter time and with the aim of spending these funds on the investment cycle to start, to create jobs in Croatia. And that should be pointed out once again, that, if laws are to be amended, we cannot affect the judiciary and the duration of the proceedings but we can publicly say that this is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130475	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130476	Thank you very much. I'll help the president get an answer, that one in common. So, normally, it's not in accordance with the law, because... 3. It makes it very clear that the offer is unacceptable, so the procedure should not have been completed, whose price goes beyond the planned, i.e. the collateral provided, and after that, we still have one article, which says that the reasons for the cancellation of the procurement procedure, that, too, if the funds are not secured, the procedure should be annulled. The problem is, of course, that our mayor knows well, that there isn't, for those legal provisions of sanctions and man ignores it. And on the other hand, it's amazing that the commission in the essential provisions, which it checks in the proceedings where the complaints are, does not have exactly this provision. So it should be in law number one, which the commission should check. The fact is that Mayor of Zagreb illegally spent his purchase for Sljemenska, so give me a sentence [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you fellow Maras.]] Man can't finish one sentence [[Intruder Radin: You cannot finish the sentence because you have exceeded 15 seconds.]] So don't be nervous. [[You can't, you can't, you can't, you stick to the weather like everybody else.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130477	So behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the manner of conduct in Parliament, so you cannot usurp the time I can talk for half a minute, I can talk for a minute if you want to talk, but you can't, because you have limited time. [[Intruder Maras: You've taken now with this nervousness you're half a minute.]] Please don't argue with me. [[So it wasn't you, I don't know what, we're all in the same position.]] I'm giving you a warning. [[Intruder Maras: We have the right to all discuss.]] The next replica, the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. [[Intruder Maras: What are you going to give me another warning now?]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[I don't have any.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130478	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Matesic, you spoke to Mr. Bunjec, I think you've been answering for this one. So, you've explained and I'm glad now, thank you for explaining. Therefore, Article 404 says literally, says, in the appeal procedure, the state-level commission of proceedings within the limits of the complaint alleged, and by official duty, pay attention to procedural assumptions and particularly significant injuries. So, within the appeal procedure, it's not your fault, you should maybe change the law, I need to give you more money, I need to give you more people, so watch out for public procurement in a better and better way. Because when the public procurement audit comes, then it's over. The review is in place, look at the results, I don't know, did you read the audit results? It's a disaster. When they warn the public company that it must have 2 bidders in public offer, in that limited offer. Well, that's what I mean, well, thank you for everything... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130479	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130480	Thank you very much. Here I am in part, you were talking about criteria, economic and financial i.e. These references. My inquiry was clear, so the start of public procurement, i.e. Opening up when the Commission opens public procurement means there is an exact ratio of financial i.e. economic and reference. Is it possible to pass the criteria during purchase without prior consultation with all. So we have a case where we're changing the criteria during the process, so financial references, financially reducing the reference to get someone else this public procurement. That's later denied, so it doesn't have your effects but it's been too bad if it's tried to please me that way and I expect you to say the answer just as an expert. Whether it is possible to change the criteria during public procurement, during public procurement, criteria without prior consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130481	The answer of the Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130482	I've removed the answer to the question, but I can answer your corridor so we don't burden this quorum, it's a question of, how, you're looking for a legal opinion. We're talking '17 report here. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130483	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130484	Thank you very much Vice-President of the Assembly, so my replica refers to the fact that in the 2017 report you had the opportunity to use, or in complaints to resolve regarding the most economically favourable offer, so these 10% which were criteria. I'm actually interested in what kind of experience you have with this, whether there were any problems, if you had any problems when you were even getting a complaint about it all together, whether it was some kind of a mess you were working or whether it seems like it's generally when it comes to public procurement is 90 percent of the price now, 10% of the criteria, certain improvements, and whether it should be further developed compared to that price maybe even further decreases, and the criteria increase, it's just to see that we get improvements in relation to public procurement to ultimately getting the best possible product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130485	The Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130486	Thank you very much, so back in '17. A year like we said in the report, we don't have too many application experiences, we have more in '18. So, due to the fact that the most economically favourable offer in the previous regime of the previous law was about 3.5%, and it seems to me that as much as 35% of the error is that which is too little, as he would have said, too little was used by that criterion he was not sufficiently developed and he was still not sufficiently developed. In any case we should work on education and designing different models and it should be developed because it is definitely the way that procurement can be more efficient and how we have a better value for the given, to give money. Everyone, I have the impression that all the participants in the proceedings were somehow caught up with this legal, legal provision and this one took time. As long as they're on their way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130487	I will conclude the debate, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130488	Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2017 The report submitted by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2017 is hereby adopted, please vote. I find that most of the votes 94 for, 5 abstentions and 3 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130489	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Selection of Councils and representatives of national minorities, second reading, P.Z. Number 557. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Management Darko Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130490	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President and welcome all the honourable MPs and MPs, so the Croatian Assembly held at the 11th session on 15 February 2019 in its first reading debated and accepted the proposal for this law. The final proposal for a law does not make any greater difference than the draft law which was then laid down, and in the same way, in accordance with the observations of the Committee on Legislatives, the law and the no-technically drawn up statement of certain provisions. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft of the law concern the change of the provisions on the timing of the elections, so we transferred from October to that first Sunday in May. A proposal on the introduction of the short name of associations on the summary list and voting ballot was adopted when the association was authorised to propose a list of candidates and candidates, that is, Article 19(4) seems to me. Following this, it is prescribed that when the candidate is proposed by members of the national minority, these mandated applicants will also be indicated in a way to state the words: a candidate of the national minority – the voter. The relevant application of the provisions on the power of the President of the National Minority Council is also prescribed at the end of the term of office and on the representative of the national minority. Therefore, in order to be able to carry out those tasks that are necessary, for example, paying material and overhead costs of commitments, etc. There are, of course, your suggestions that we couldn't accept, so I'm going to touch them for a little while in this presentation. So we couldn't accept one part of the proposal that is related to the problem of protection against the commission of representatives of national minorities because it's not the same because it means that it is governed by this law, and with the same explanation it was not accepted in the debate on the obligations of local self-government units that some of the funds must be allocated to councils and representatives of national minorities. It is also not accepted that the final draft law introduces provisions on the bilinguality of all documents relating to the election of councils and representatives of national minorities, assessing that the existing solution is in accordance with the provisions of the laws laying down the conditions of official use of the language and letters of national minorities. Neither was the proposal adopted in the debate to hold elections for councils and representatives of national minorities at the same time as elections for members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is two different types of elections, and at the same time maintenance would not be meaningful because it would not lead to a reduction in costs in the light of the prescribed different compositions of the electoral bodies for the implementation of the elections, and it is possible even that the turnout would be less due to organisational conditions of implementation. Therefore, the application of this law will contribute to the promotion, preservation and protection of the position of national minorities in the section relating to elections for councils and representatives of national minorities for their participation in public life and local affairs management, and therefore ultimately propose to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130491	Thank you very much. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, so the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130492	Good afternoon, Honored Chairman, Honored Secretary of State, Honored colleagues and colleagues, here is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Selection of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities, which we had in our first reading on February 15th and on which we gave some suggestions and suggestions in the debate, as well as through the Committees. In order to improve the text of the law, the Proposer also accepted a proposal from the National Minority Club's representative on the date of the elections, and for the reason that the interspace does not occur since the original proposal proposed that elections be held every first Sunday of October, and since the current councils or representatives of the national minority mandates expire in May this year, so that we think that no matter what we are a bit of time and in one interspace that is quite tense, however, we succeed, here, within a very short period of time to leave this Final Bill proposal before us today so that the law will then be voted and entered into force as soon as possible, and in order to prepare the implementation of the elections in accordance with the new law for the Council and representatives of national minorities. It was also accepted that the proposal related to the introduction of the shortened names of associations into the content of the collection list and ballot, and for reasons to actually avoid those, not to say, sheets that we had previously had due to long names and how this would be better done in this way. As for also another proposal that has been accepted, it was accepted that an application be submitted to the ballot. As regards the proposal for ballots to be also in the language of the national minority, the proposal was not accepted for the reason why the applicant explained it, I think it is justified that this would further create certain technical problems as well in preparing and implementing the elections themselves, although I consider this proposal justified by the representatives of the national minorities who proposed it. What is important to say, I think it is really good that we will finally have such a special law relating to the election of councils and representatives of national minorities as a separate regulation, because so far we have had it within the Law on Representative Authorities, or the election of representative bodies in the units of local and regional self-government, which was, in fact, implemented in this election by analogous to the provisions applicable in that law for the election of representative bodies, since we have already passed a new Law on local elections, which we have in fact in a new way regulated the choice of representative bodies by that law and by that law itself and in fact the provision found that a new special regulation will be passed which will regulate the choice of councils and representatives of national minorities, I think that it is a good thing that we have now done. It will certainly avoid certain legal gaps that we have so far, and precisely because of the analogue application of certain provisions of the second regulation, and thus create greater legal certainty in the conduct of election procedures for representatives and councils of national minorities. I would also like to say that this bill also introduces some newspapers in relation to the current situation that we have, so it is certainly good that a national minority representative will also be proposed to avoid the situation in the event of the termination or resignation of the term of office or resignation of a representative of the National Minority Council by the end of the term of office. Some newspapers have also been introduced, and one of them also refers to the electoral silence that will no longer be in these elections for the councils and representatives of national minorities, as we have for the other elections, and I believe that given the role played by the National Minorities Council and the National Minority Council, which is primarily one advisory role, and since we also say in the way these elections are conducted and how we are actually in the interest to encourage these elections to respond to as many representatives of national minorities as possible, which has not been the case so far, we have had quite a small turnout in these elections. I think it's good and there's no such restriction in conducting the procedure itself. As for some of the very procedures of the bodies involved in the election process, they are in some way parallel to all other bodies that participate in all other election procedures we have, meaning from the state election commission, county, city to lower. As far as everything else is concerned, it means through the whole regulation, a whole selection process has been arranged, an active legitimate, passive electoral law, a way to conduct elections, deadlines, election committees, so I think the bill is good and will fully regulate the selection of councils and representatives of national minorities. It is certain that this is significant and that even in this way, the Republic of Croatia shows a special relationship that has to do with national minorities living in the Republic of Croatia, and as it proves through the Constitutional Law, which prescribes in fact everything that is important for the exercise of the rights of national minorities. The HDZ Club will support this proposal and thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130493	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs, this national minority, on behalf of which will speak respected representative Vladimir Bilek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130494	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, here we are today with the Final Proposal of the Law on Elections for Councils and Representatives of National Minorities. Here, about 10 months have passed since the Commission was established, I am glad that we could, together with representatives of our club and representatives of the council, work together with the Ministry of Administration and others on this bill proposal because he was one of the able to say the commitments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the government programme and operational programme of the Government for national minorities, and this way I want to thank and thank the Ministry of Administration for just understanding the problem, at the outset of certain things we may not have had at the beginning of the same position where here, we can say and at first reading there were some things we may not have had until the end. But here, during that period, the National Minority Representatives Club carried out a series of meetings both as a club and together with national-level co-ordinations, the coordination of national minorities at the level of regional self-government units, so we were also this proposal that was and how we manifested ourselves at first reading was essentially the basis of the conclusion of the club that was on 23 January this year. First of all, it's about three club conclusions. I'm glad that most of it was adopted means in the final proposal of this law. The first conclusion was just based on the date, meaning holding elections. We know that 4 years ago, if the elections were important in May, which means that we know that when the mandate of the representatives and the councils of the national minorities stood out and the elections were transferred in October, when first, they would be at a standstill with the law, and secondly, there would have been major problems in the functioning of the council and representatives who would be outside the mandate and in the preparation of the programme of financial plans but, of course, reports for their mandates because we know that and when we forced them, then at the previous elections, Mr. Boris Milosevic, who, too, was directed very much into this issue and forced in some way to register the council and representatives as early as possible, that these proceedings lasted until even 6 months, which could happen in this case, in particular, that in 10 months, they could last us another election after the new year, so I am glad that this application of the smaller and the smaller framework of the smaller countries, the smaller ones here and the smaller ones in the smaller ones, and the smaller ones. The second proposal that we put in place was the short name of the proposings themselves because if we went to the full name of some councils, some proposals would be very large and big sheets, people wouldn't be able to get along, but let's say the example that we had from past elections where in one regional self-government, say three lists that were, 76 means people, so we had 18 equal names, 11 other equal names, some of which had even three equal names, and not only that people who came to the polls didn't know exactly who they were rounding up, but they weren't even the ones who were rounded exactly who were elected, and there were some problems. Here, in this way, that part will be solved. We know that the vast majority of the organizations that have proposed have registered short names, and I am glad that today, here on the board, it was said that the Ministry of Administration will also come to the meeting, we know that the third month is the time of the majority of the associations in the Republic, so those who want to and now introduce a short name in their statutes, that the Ministry of Administration will let's say take it, take it as priorities and that in a short time register the statutes, as those who wish, would put that short name, and currently do not, in time, be able to put it. The part that we can say here is not, I'm not going to say it's not respected but it's not harmonised and it's not put into law, maybe because of some current inability is bilingualism, means that the ballots are in the language and letter of the national minorities. We think that perhaps it could be where the official use of the language and letters of the national minorities in those units of local and regional self-government could have been inserted, but here it may not be, but we will try to find a solution in the next period that will satisfy that segment. In addition to this part, here we have done together with the club, several meetings and held institutions, first of all, here we have been working on a meeting with representatives of the State Election Commission that were already preparing, when we discussed the possible date and order of electoral actions and schedules, the election of members of the council and representatives of national minorities, and I am pleased that we have seen that it is possible that there will be no problems. And also with the APIS representatives who hold elections, i.e. in that section of the voters' list, that there will be no problem in closing the voters' list at one point in time in terms of the possibility of switching to national minorities in order not to block the vote. On behalf of the club, I am merely passing on another application, when electoral proceedings take place during the preparatory actions, to respect Article 24(1) of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which says that the Council of Local Self-Government Units can have all where more than 200 members of the national minority or 1.5% of voters. So I'm asking that both things be appreciated, because we've had in the past elections someplace that they're not. We know that we have a small population of municipalities, where, say, municipalities below 2,000, with 199 members of national minorities have a far higher percentage than it is 1.5% of the population's share, and yet we give that possibility to these municipalities have councils, as prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. And in that problem regarding the status of representatives and the blocking of accounts, here and as a Club of Representatives of National Minorities, we are prepared to talk to the Ministry of Finance and the Minister, respectively, of the Tax Administration in order to open up a possible segment, dialogue and prevent these blockades that occurred with certain representatives. At the end of what do you say? We know that the councils and representatives are basically just advisory bodies in the areas of units of local and regional self-government, of course and co-ordination at the state level on that side, and we know that where they once did not have or were given the understanding of the leaders of local self-government units, that they were sometimes just the decoration of democracy, but we also know how much work they did with certain problems in local self-government units, I can say, from my own example of implementing official language use, such as with councils, such as Bjelovar bilogor County or the town of Daruvar or the town of Grubišno Polje where this official use of language and introduced. I thank you very much, I hope that these, too, as we have said, will be appreciated, in this segment of the elections and the Club of National Minorities will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130495	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Rada Party and Solidarity of Independent Representatives, the Honorable Representative, Rechimer Varda, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130496	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The truth and God, the time has elapsed, so here, colleagues before me spoke more specifically about this final bill, I would therefore refer only to a few or two, three questions. First this club, this club has 4 parliamentary representatives who make up national minorities, and then this part of the club that makes up the Rada Party and solidarity is actively engaged on boards and in the debate on the first reading of the bill. So then I also have a moral obligation to, in some way, express the satisfaction that, in the short term, we have been able to define all constructive proposals, for the final draft of the law, and what, in this case, the Ministry of Administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has met actually reasoned proposals and objections to the bill in the first reading. However, I would particularly like to point out that this applies to Article 7 relating to the deadline, the date of the elections, that this also applies to that list of candidates relating to the label on which the applicant is. We are aware that certain associations do not have short names, but we have been seized in a certain manner by the State Secretary, this morning at least on the Legislative Committee, that they will provide an opportunity for all these associations to, within this period of one month to, these themselves, in the final line of elections, change the statutes, establish the shortened names and then go on the list. There's at least a promise from the Department of Management's representative that he'll give extra power to get that registered as an assistant as soon as possible, I'm sorry. On the other hand, I would point out that I am personally and pleased that you are, in relation to the candidacy for representatives of the national minority as a newspaper in the proposal, the final draft of the law, that in the proposal for candidacy, you and the candidate for representative are listed as candidates for his deputy. Until now, a national minority representative has not had a deputy, and in this way, all those situations are resolved and when a national minority representative presented the mandate before its regular expiry and allowed members of the national minority in the area to continue to have a representative. Teached by experience, since 2003 in the City of Zagreb, which is also because of the size of its budget and because of the number of members of various national minorities in the City of Zagreb, I say that this law does not resolve financing, that it is an obligation of local self-government. So, what the City of Zagreb does, I need to say for the sake of the public, this year, the City of Zagreb has, say, a budget of 10 million 967 thousand 337 kuna, or let's say for certain minorities, for example, the Hungarian national minority has 729 thousand 610 kuna, which is far more than the Osijek-Baranja County, which has in, like, ten times the number of Hungarian minorities, actually in its County, so it's about 90 thousand kuna. Or, yes, let me count, the Council of the Albanian National Minority 903 thousand 991, the Council of the Bosniak National Minority 1 million 107 thousand, the Council of Montenegro 742 thousand and something, the Council of the Czech Republic 728 thousand, the Council of Hungary 729 thousand, the Council of Macedonia 692 thousand, the Council of the Roma National Minority 759 thousand, the Slovenian National Minority 788 thousand, the Serbian National Minority 1 million 616 thousand, the Austrian National Minority 237 thousand 930, the Bulgarian National Minority 224 thousand 845, the Polish National Minority 246 thousand, the Russian National Minority 262 thousand 604, the Russian National Minority 249 thousand 884, the representatives of the Slovak National Minority 240 thousand 670, the representative of the Italian National Minority 261 thousand 388, the representative of the Ukrainian National Minority 233 thousand 682, the Jewish national minority of 258 thousand 932 and the Council and the National Minority Minority of the National Minority of Zagreb City of 730. I know that we are not in the City Assembly of the City of Zagreb, but in the session of the Parliament of the Croatian Parliament, but I felt the need to highlight this, this, because, in fact, by appealing to all units of local self-government, to more significantly allocate funds for the work of the Council of National Minorities, or their representatives. And finally let me just say that the Labour Party and Solidarity Club will support the adoption of the Law on the Selection of Councils and representatives of national minorities as presented in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130497	Thank you very much. We move to the Independent Representatives' Club, in the name of which the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. He's gone? He's losing his right to speak, so the next one will be the SDP MPs' club, and he will speak to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130498	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As far as this law is concerned, I don't have any bigger ones, we don't have any bigger objections. He would just like to point out to the secretary of state that, in Article 103, there may be a slightly too strict way of replacing a member of the Council if they have the same number of votes, because if there are more than the same number of votes, then it turns out that it could not be replaced, and perhaps the possibility of agreeing on those who have the same number of votes to enter the Council of National Minorities would be easier. Also in Article 7, it is prescribed that the elections are held on the first Sunday of May every fourth year, and the calendar says that in 2039, it will be May 01, so we have made an amendment that, exceptionally in the transitional provisions, the elections are scheduled to be held on May 8, 2039, likely to still be celebrated on May 1st as a state holiday, and likely elections will be held for the Council of National Minorities. If not, there's no harm done. And the third suggestion is that, given that sometimes without the intention of disdaining the effect of representatives elected by two or one vote, that sometimes in some units of local self-government, elections for representatives of national minorities accept cartoon situations to vote one or two members, two voters, or to choose one myself, I propose in an article relating to the declaration of election results, that it be prescribed if 5% of voters do not go out, that the elections be repeated in two weeks, if they never come out, that they simply cancel out. This would increase the legitimacy of representatives of national minorities and the Council, and make them a little serious if they still made sure that at least 5% of the people went to the polls. As far as the political context of the adoption of this Law is concerned, it is an interesting situation. So, we have the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2014 that the Government is obliged to adopt amendments to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, concerning the City of Vukovar and other likely units of local self-government, and after five years or four and a half years, and three years of functioning and two years of functioning, and by this Government, it is still not proposed, and on the other hand, the Law on the Election of Councils, representatives and the Council of National Minorities, has succeeded in entering the procedure at the end of the 12th month, then it is discussed in the 1st month, and now speedily and for the second reading, and it is envisaged that the Law enters into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal, which shows the urgency that the elections can be held on the first Sunday of May, which is somehow logical, because the third or fourth week of the elections in May are in May of the European Parliament, so that at least a little time and the national elections will be held, so that the elections will be held by the European Parliament, so well that the Parliament will be held. So there's the government and the representatives of the national minorities have shown envious agility for this law to come, to come this, to the agenda and to adopt it, but around this other law that might have come to certain tensions there didn't exactly show some great creativity, the initiative, that's how it sticks under the carpet, and that topic, let's just say, avoids it a little bit. Well, if it weren't so boring, I'd remind you of Article 83(1). The Constitution, that the laws governing the rights of national minorities, the Croatian Parliament brings two-thirds of the votes of all MPs, and when it comes to this law on the use of language and letter, then it is said that the two-thirds majority of what we have adopted, but this law also regulates the rights of national minorities, so perhaps for this one, the two-thirds majority should, if the two-thirds majority should in that case, expect to address us for that two-thirds majority, and if we should not be very glad, then you can also bring the law on the use of language and letter to the most common majority, and we will not discuss much about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130499	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130500	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the Proposal for a Law on the Election of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities is, for the first time, particularly standardising the selection procedure and councils of national minorities and representatives in all municipalities and cities and counties where national minorities exercise the right to choose their representatives in the form of therefore or formed councils or representatives depending on the number of minorities themselves in these units of self-government. This law was needed, not only because of the government's promise when the Law on Local Elections was adopted in 2012, but rather because the legal solutions that had been valid so far were insufficient or full of legal gaps that practice had to fill in the interpretations, apply analoguely some other regulations, and this has always caused in practice and in the field questionnaires that perhaps those interpretations were appropriate, that someone in a better position, someone in a worse position, and in fact we just didn't have clearly defined rules. What is very important, therefore, is that this bill does not change the procedure of choice, so the election procedure does not change, the way the election does not really change, most of it remains the same, and what is important, so the next elections will be held practically as the previous 4 election cycles have been held, so according to the same rules we will only now have in fact clearly unified and codified these electoral rules in one place, we will not actually have any more laws that will refer to each other and actually require the application of mandatory instructions from the State Election Commission or interpretation or the opinion of the Ministry of Administration. The proposal contains and clearly defines the term of holding elections which is very good, what is unfortunate in this situation is that this year it coincides with elections for the European Parliament, it is technically feasible but it is not the happiest. It is not the happiest, and this is what my colleague Bauk said in May 2039, which will be the European elections. So, in 2039, it's not that happy solution either, the ideal solution would be that these elections match the local elections, that would be the happiest solution, but the problem is the duration of the mandate set by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. If we had such a solution, then it would be very likely that the turnout would be much greater and the legitimacy of the elected representatives would be greater and their role would be more recognizable. I welcome that the closer it is marked, the process of running, the way the lists are submitted, the way the minority representatives are run, the good thing that for the first time the authorised applicants will be marked, is that the authorised applicants are defined, which is essentially defined in terms of the law which are the associations of national minorities. This has always been a problem, because the Law on Associations does not know the associations of national minorities and then there has always been an interpretation of the competent electoral commission or the Constitutional Court which is considered an association of national minorities. The interpretations and practices were different that created problems in practice for me, and now we have a law clearly defined who is considered, i.e. what is the association of national minorities, so this definition is defined easily by the register of associations, when the objectives of the association are looked at. The association which extracts the extract from the register shall therefore clearly state the objectives and basic reasons for the establishment of the association and can therefore be clearly identified whether or not it is a national minority association. It is also good that there is a regulated way of running in terms of clear determination and definition of the ban on running, which is clearly defined in fact that military persons and police officers cannot be run as there is a ban on the running of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors and their deputies who have been elected together because we do not really feel that there is a need for someone who is also a municipal chief of the minority council. The ban on multiple candidates is normal and logical, what is good, and it has been in practice so far, that someone who has run at the municipal level can also run at the county level, we have that for local representative bodies and there is no reason to limit it here as far as national minorities are concerned, but it is important to stress that it has always been a practice, that it has been a practice since the elections themselves. It is good to define the content of the list's proposal well to define, therefore, and the fact that the list must have a certain minimum of candidates on the list, which we haven't had so far, so we've had situations that were proposed lists of one or a few candidates and that would have been chosen, but actually we couldn't form a council and then actually elections are being held, and we don't have the possibility of forming a council. What is a newspaper, which is good news that it is defined that a national minority representative has a deputy who can therefore jump in if for some reason the representative stops the mandate, which we had in practice and then that minority would remain deprived of representing its minority in that municipality, city or county. I also welcome the fact that there is no electoral silence prescribed here as an institute that at least for these elections, I think is unnecessary and that it would be bad for a competent electoral committee to have to, on the day of electoral silence, I don't know, check, hunt in the field, whether or not someone has reported illegally, so we actually removed these dilemmas. As for the provisions concerning polling stations, it is always a problem in these elections, the law has defined as for all electoral laws that the competent electoral commission determines the polling stations, and we are asking for the strong involvement of the State Election Commission to be sufficient numbers of polling stations, so that the polling stations are not determined, for example in some municipality that has multiple settlements, and in only one settlement are members of some minority who choose their own councils, so potential voters and then, therefore, that the polling place is in that village, that they are not in the seat, the municipality because it is more convenient for members of the election board or the competent election committee, but there, so that the polling post is established where the voters are. It's good that it's been arranged, and so far we haven't had, we've been wandering around in practice, clearly defined how the mandate ends, so the possibility of replacing members of the council and representatives, we haven't had that before, and it's been very often causing problems in practice, there's been a variety of wanderings, opinions being asked, different councils acting differently, and it's good that we have. What I would also like to warn the Government that, when calling the elections, it takes account that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is respected, that the criteria of 1.5% or at least 200 members of a national minority in the municipality and the city, therefore, in the case of criteria, as a criterion whether the Council meets the requirements of whether the minority fulfils the conditions to choose a council or representatives, that it always goes in favour of a national minority, let's not interpret the Constitutional Law of National Minorities at the expense of minorities because a number of minorities are decimated in terms of the number of populations, these choices are the last ones to be conducted according to the 2011 census, but the following 2023 elections will be according to the 2023 census, so I appeal to the Ministry of Administration or Government to lead the account. What I've already said, great turnout, turnout is a big problem of these choices, it's not easy to motivate voters to go to elections and to choose bodies that don't really have any role or influence or power, or if they have, it's a very small influence, it's not easy to motivate voters in those places where the election is meant to do sogmatisation, we can say whatever we want, but we still have an atmosphere in society that in a large number of cities and municipalities going out to elections means Stigmatisation, it refers to me mostly to the Serb national minority, but not only to the Serb national minority, but also to other minorities, somewhere it simply needs to take courage to go to elections and vote because it means actually national to make known. What will be a big problem, which this law does not regulate, is a step after the elections, which is registration. After the elections are held, it is necessary to make the register of all these elected councils and representatives, a big job waiting for the Ministry of Administration to run the register and appeal to the Ministry to facilitate their work, and to shorten the troubles of the councils and representatives who are elected, to change at least part of the articles of the Law on Register and Councils of National Minorities in order to make it easier for themselves to sign up, so we will have to have the situation that some elected councils may welcome the end of the year, and that they will not be registered, it will be a big, big problem after the conduct of the elections, because, for example, some county council to be elected, it should be entered in the register of councils, and all 25 elected councils and their OIBs, it would be much easier to sign in only the president and deputy, that not all the other members, which is a suggestion, but I think is good. This law is a certain step forward that will not solve the numerous weaknesses of the councils and representatives of national minorities, and their greatest restriction is, in fact, within their powers, prescribed in fact by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and these powers are actually the main problem. If the powers were better prescribed, if they were stronger and those councils and representatives would be recognizable in their environments, the way they are, essentially with their identity, with their role, with their visibility and for this reason and they are harder to get visibility in their community. I hope that the next term and that the next elected councilors will take a step in this regard because unfortunately we are aware that this will not be possible in this House because, as we know, therefore, the Constitutional Law should be amended by 2/3 of the majority, and this is very difficult, difficult to gather in this consolidation of political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130501	Thank you. Now we move on to an individual debate, so the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is a fellow Milosevic who finished his debate with what I want to highlight and in some ways point to the need for consensus in the adoption of this Law, because Article 83 is. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia made it very clear that this kind of law must be passed with 2/3 of the majority, and on that side it would be necessary for the Proposer, or the Ministry of Administration, to listen and the opposition, and the proposals that the opposition will make, and to try to put them into the law in order to be as good as possible. We are all aware that in the Republic of Croatia national minorities or the Council and representatives of national minorities by these Councils, unfortunately they are elected but in a large number of cases do not have any major influence on the local community, they do not have any to implement their programmes, and then things that are not acceptable to me and should not be acceptable in any democratic society and parliamentary democracy, which is that national minority representatives often have a link with certain local leaders to finance their activities, which then enable them to be more easily elected next time in parliamentary elections, given the relatively small number of voters they need to be elected. One representative of national minorities what, in order not to get the wrong idea, I support this model and I think it is good that MPs have, and national minorities have a presence in the Croatian Assembly, sometimes, as you would say in public perception and in a way that it is not good because quite often they are used as a language on the scale when the HDZ is in position, when the SDP is that, it was not once, because we had a lot of common majority already at the beginning, although the representatives of the national minorities supported the government, but one is when you support the government, and the government has a majority of 85 or 87, and the other is when you support the government, it means 8 MPs, and the majority is 78 plus-minus that chip. So, on this side, it is clear in itself that this role should be strengthened at local level so that, for example, some MPs are not supposed to wire the cities, it is, of course, the most expressed in the City of Zagreb, where various activities throughout Croatia, various associations of national minorities are funded in the Bjelovar-Belogorian County, meaning I have no objection, I would prefer it to be financed by the Bjelovar-Bilogor County or the City of Bjelovar, rather than to finance the City of Zagreb with its own, with its money, means either the City of Daruvar from where Bilek is represented. So on this side, it must not be reduced to, to demand and in some situations to obtain money which is then used for various different, different different types of funding, and sometimes not transparent arrangements, and therefore I would like this law to be passed in a way that people are stimulated to engage in Councils of National Minors, so that they can implement their purpose, for the last time we talked, it was weeks or even a week ago, they can't remember exactly, about this same Law and now because of the haste that, in order for the law to be passed, to implement the elections in the fifth month, what my proposal was to do with the European elections for less costs and greater turnout, but I see that it will not be so, in the end, this law is now passed at speed, and we'll give certain proposals to Friday, and the amendment type, and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take them into account more seriously in terms of national law, which makes them in order to be very important in terms ofnationality , which theimportance , which means that the most to be true in terms of the importance of the nationalpeople , which the nationalpeople , theimportance , the importance of the importance of thistype. So here, Mr. Secretary of State, I suggest you pay attention to some of the amendments that we have given, to try to get out of these some party-interest frameworks, maybe someone won't be satisfied with some proposals, and even from the national minorities of what we've given, but there needs to show the width and interest to create the best possible quality law so that these representatives can work in the best possible way tomorrow, and to get away from what is now dominated by our scene which is not good, and that is that national minorities are shown as, or their representatives, it is unfortunately the most dominant in the Croatian Parliament as, as representatives with which cooperation is possible to achieve it in a way that you support it or some of their activity to support from some local budget, I said the mayor of Zagreb has the largest budget of all local self-government units, so that they do it in such a way and finance certain activities, and in turn it's necessary that it's not necessarily possible for us to be possible for the smaller people to be able to be able to be able to do so. So, here I am, in principle I have no objection to this law being passed with certain small changes, which I don't think will be difficult to accept and to show that one consensus, the breadth that these elections are being held the way they are. Of course, it should also take care of dates, or the possibility of that first date falling once in the future and on the holiday of May 1st. That should also be taken into account, so then it won't be possible to hold elections in May. So, I think it would be pointless to do this on holiday, so, on that side, you have to take care of some of these details, that's what we're saying, here's what we've done, we've suggested, and we hope you'll take it all together and accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130503	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. He's not here. He loses his right to debate, so the next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130504	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say that regardless of what minorities are presented in HS and local authorities and other representative bodies, unfortunately we have a situation where minorities in Croatia are getting worse. And why is it getting worse? But because the fate of minorities is, in fact, bound to the fate of the majority. If most fail and most disappear from Croatia, unfortunately, the same happens to minorities. We have the situation, most of all, in the Serb national minority. Unfortunately, for many years, there seems to be nothing since the return of displaced Serbs, however, regardless of the return of Serbs, i.e. it is negligible, regardless of how many Serbs cannot achieve a tenant right, i.e. obtaining the property they have left, regardless of how many in their own properties cannot learn, despite all this, the government, or, I say, minority representatives of the Serbs from the SDSS support this particular government. Now, the question arises whether they support this government because it protects the interests of Serbs or supports it in order to protect the interests and interests of a few people who are closely related to them. My guess is, that is, my thesis is that I see what the demographic movements of Serbs are, and I see what problems they are having, that representatives of the Serb national minority in the Assembly do not support the government because it is good and because it is working on the interests of both the Croats and the Serbs they represent, but in my court, I think they are doing it for their own personal interest. Then I would like to refer to the question of the Roma national minority, or their representative Veljak Kajtazi. Namely, the fact is that no minimum compensation is guaranteed and that it cannot be lived on. The fact is that I personally proposed by amending the budget that the amount of the minimum fees guaranteed should be paid. Unfortunately, I don't remember Mr. Kajtazi supporting my proposal, as I don't remember, nor did the other minority representatives do. The question that's being asked is. Is it more important for Serbs in Croatia to double, this guaranteed minimum fee, some social assistance or it is more important for Serbs in Croatia to get military planes for 2.9 billion kuna. Now, my opinion is that it's more important to increase that guaranteed minimum fee. And one more thing. I also suggested that for the protection of minorities, the amount of funds envisaged be paid. So, I, Ivan Pernar, has suggested that funds to protect national minorities multiply times two, increase and bounce away from the military plane item. However, I also don't remember that minority representatives supported my proposal. The question is whether military planes are more important to them or whether they care about the survival of them, those who represent deura. I would like to look particularly at Roma problems in Međimurje, which unfortunately many gamble, many have problems with alcohol and actually live in severe misery and impoverishment. In my judgment, the cause of their problems is not alcohol, and it is not a cube, in my judgment, the cause of their troubles is imperceptibility because I think the reason why someone drinks is not because they like to drink alcohol, but because they actually run away from reality, or that they are trying in some way to avoid facing it. So I ask the question, what is this government or what is Mr. Keatazi representing, has made for them to live better, what he did to make them feel the perspective or purpose of their lives that would go beyond the naked existence. Living day-to-day literally living in my court is pointless, and unfortunately many Roma thanks to the government's policies and policies of those who support it are condemned. Unfortunately, many Roma enter various kinds of addictions as well as many other citizens who are not Roma, so other peoples in Croatia who are desperate or who do not see their future are unfortunately also resorting to addictions and many are also evicting. These amendments to the laws where the Law on the Selection of National Minorities Councils is changed are, in fact, the mere form of their choice. Unfortunately, however, I fear that no matter how they choose them, if the minds of the people in our society are not changed, both the minorities and the majority, I am afraid that these representatives in the councils of minorities or local representative bodies or in the national assembly will continue to represent themselves instead of those who receive their wages or earn their existence. My call is therefore addressed to all people in Croatia, and so to minority representatives, especially Serbs and Roma, to ask themselves what their children's future will be if their current policy continues in Croatia or whether they consider the current policy to be good for them. Mr. Kajtazi opposed the idea of a voucher for social aid recipients in Međimurje, and unfortunately when I suggested an increase in the amount of social compensation I don't remember he supported my proposal. And what do I mean by that? I have absolutely nothing against Roma, absolutely nothing, but my desire that the money they get goes for what they really need, not to go for gambling or alcohol or cigarettes. Unfortunately, a lot of money goes that way. By fighting a system or mechanism that would prevent it, you would dare to say the abuse of these social rights, Katezi is actually working against his people, that's my opinion. Because if he cared about Roma, he would ask that the guaranteed minimum fee be increased, at least for double, because this is clearly not enough, he would also ask to allow that money to be spent on everything except alcohol, gambling and cigarettes, but unfortunately I have a feeling that it is more important for him to get a vote than the future or existence of his people. People or communities or people who leave their lives to let go of lethargy and senselessness, people who give their lives into the hands of various addictions, people who have no vision of the future, but survive from day to day. What is their destiny, and what is the fate of the people they represent? It is my desire that they live better tomorrow, my desire to live a dignified life and to rejoice in every new day and be free from the slavery of every species. That would end my exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130505	Thank you very much, and now the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar will speak again, just now on behalf of the representative club as the final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130506	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in this high house, I suggested that when the two amendments were budgeted, one amendment was to increase the allocations for national minorities or for their protection by double, as I recall not getting support from representatives of national minorities from which I believe they are currently, the current degree of protection of minority rights as adequate. However, is it adequate, is it more important to direct 20 million kunas into military planes or is it more important to focus 20 million kuna on the protection of national minorities? This is a question I asked at the time, and I personally felt that protecting national minorities living in Croatia should be a priority ahead of the purchase of military aircraft from Israel, Israel, and for 2.9 billion kuna. Unfortunately, I don't remember being supported by minority representatives in my proposal. The second proposal, i.e. the second amendment I made to the budget, was to double the amount of social compensation or guaranteed minimum fees. I don't think the current amount is enough for a naked survival or naked existence. I also do not remember that 8 minority representatives supported my proposal, which concludes that they consider the current system to be good enough or that these fees are adequate. But the question that is asked is whether they are adequate, can they live on? I personally believe that not and I believe that the representatives of minorities in the Croatian Parliament are not protecting the interests of minorities representing de jure, but rather their own personal interests, which they have, unfortunately, closely linked to the fate of the political HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic with which they have bonded. How good the policy is that they support is best witnessed by dramatic demographic data on mass eviction from the Republic of Croatia, on the departure of people, and finally on how those who have left it do not return to it. I wonder, at all ages, how many SDSS were in power, how many Serbs, thanks to them, have returned to the Republic of Croatia? I wonder how many of their property problems have been solved and I wonder if they're satisfied with the SDSS policy? From what I've seen so far, I'm expressing a great skepticism or suspicion against the work of minority representatives, not because they represent minorities, not because they're chosen in another way, but because they're representatives of so-called. Not minority lists, but because, in my court, they don't protect those for whose representation they've been chosen. I call on minority representatives to open their members or members of minority national communities in the Republic of Croatia to open their eyes and wonder if they want these people to continue to represent them and do they feel in their hearts that continuing their current policy will make them and their children better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130507	Thank you very much. In doing so, I'm sorry, on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State Darko Nekic will still speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I was writing down all this stuff that was said in the debate, so I would try to point out a few things in this final presentation, so I noticed that all of you were in the debate. The first question, the question of bilingualism, means, is neither the Ministry of Administration nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia to limit bilingualism, but in the issue of bilingualism on ballots, we come up with that problem that we've been dealing with, so also around these shorts of associations that propose candidates, which is the question of the size of the ballot and whether this ballot will actually look like a sheet? So that's the only reason why we did this proposal, so we went to not print bilingual ballots because they would really be too big to do that, especially in those units of local self-government that have multiple lists. As far as the financing issue is concerned, the issue of funding is not addressed by this law, I also said so in the first reading presentation. So, the issue of the financing of councils and representatives of national minorities is addressed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. So, we in this law, and getting ready for this debate, I also took out all the information regarding funding by county, the latest available data is for 2017. from which it is visible, means that 24,840.000,00 kn is invested for the financing of councils and national minorities. Now he could list the county, he was mentioned here in the City of Zagreb, so when you look at the total budget of the City of Zagreb and compare it with the funding of national minorities, it is evident that there are no such major deviations as was said here. The second issue you have raised in these exhibitions was that it should be held together, meaning elections for the European Parliament or elections for representatives of the councils and representatives of national minorities. After an extensive analysis by the Ministry of Administration, we think that this would not be a good solution, it would not be a good solution because these elections are first funded from different sources, meaning, one from the state budget, and the other from the budget of the units of local and regional self-government, but also because of the diversity of election processes at the same time, meaning that maintaining these choices would not necessarily lead to a reduction in costs or even the cost of information support. So, the difference is large between one and the other choices, and we think that at the same time, the maintenance could only complicate, say, going to the elections because one representative of the national minority would actually be brought into such a situation to vote in two polling stations, and that would certainly demote a certain number of members of the national members to go to the elections. I don't think I've forgotten anything, of course, that all the amendments, as the esteemed representative Bauk mentioned, will be carefully analyzed and answered on Friday. I would, in the end, take this opportunity to really thank all members of the National Minority Club, everyone who worked in the Working Group, thank them first for the congratulations they sent to the Ministry of Administration, and certainly also for the cooperation they have shown in the creation of this law, without their help I am sure that this law would not be made in such a quality way. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130509	We have a replica, a respected representative of Bilek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130510	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, as I said and, as I said in the presentation, I would just like to say that all representatives from the National Minorities Club participated in the development of this Government's programme, whose component and operational programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for national minorities where, among other things, the construction of kindergartens, construction and reconstruction of infrastructure, where certain support for agriculture, according to the economy, according to all other segments, where the electrification of abandoned settlements is also so that Serbian returnees can return as well as housing, and also, here, Mr. Keatazi is very much working on the education of Roma national minorities, we all remain in that education of all of our national minorities so that they are more educated in the labour market. We have not had this law so far, so there has been no Law on selecting representatives and councils, and therefore here we thank once again for this co-operation and cooperation and I believe that we will carry out the good and quality of this election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130511	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130512	We now move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Selection of Councils and representatives of national minorities. Proposal for Law 557. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representatives Arsen Bauk and Gordan Maras and the Independent Representatives' Club. The amendments have been sent to you by electronic means. I'm asking the motionary's representative to take his word for it, Mr. Darko Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Let's take it in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome you and all present MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130514	Thank you. Let's take it in a row. Amendment No. 1 in Art. 76, and these are all your amendments to Mr. Arsen Bauk and Gordan Maras, together as representatives, not as a club. First Amendment No. 1, in Art. The 776th century 4th century.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130515	The amendment is not accepted because it would limit the choice of individual councilors and representatives of national minorities in those units where the right to vote is prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, regardless of the turnout of the voters of a particular national minority. In addition, any repeat of the elections would increase, of course, the cost of these elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130516	Thank you very much. Would you like to make yourself clear, Mr. Maras?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130517	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I think it's the law's intensity and what we should do for national minorities, that they participate in these elections. So when we talk about this 5% threshold that's listed here, only in one unit of local self-government happened in past elections that the threshold didn't come true. Only on one. Instead of limiting, that is, trying to detimise people and under the grains to conduct elections for national minorities, I suggest you do some media activities, to promote this, to make people aware of the benefits of elections for the councils of national minorities in order to ultimately increase turnout in these elections. It's amazing that you're promoting that if one representative comes out, that's enough. So the candidate comes out and votes for himself, that's enough for the election to be considered valid. That, whether re-elections will be held in one unit to increase costs is irrelevant to me. It is a greater benefit if you stimulate as many representatives of national minorities as possible to attend and participate in these elections and therefore it is not clear to me why you refuse this amendment if the only reason you can be interested in someone in the city of Zagreb is that the only unit where there was no turnout greater than 5% of the minorities are not included in the elections and that only those now involved are monopolizing the rights and the right to represent national minorities, so on the other hand, I ask you to vote on it, to accept that because, we said, that it's an important consensus. [[Intruder: It means vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130518	Mr. Maras, you're looking for a vote, if I've heard correctly. Thank you very much. Also, Mr. Arsen Bauk and Mr. Gordan Maras. They have made an amendment, 2nd amendment to Art. 106. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130519	The amendment is not accepted. The reason why an exception is proposed is not acceptable given that Sunday is also a bad day when all elections are held. In addition, the provisions of Art. 7 is in accordance with the provisions of the Law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130520	You'd like to explain yourself, Mr. Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130521	If I understand correctly, you don't mind the election being May 1st, 2039. So, I think it's totally inappropriate that elections are held on a national holiday, if they can be made a week later. Now I can only conclude that either in 2039 there will be no more elections for national minorities or on May 1st will be no holiday. Now, now, two options, I hope none of that happens, and I will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130522	Okay. You're looking for a vote on this mathematical amendment. Voting? Okay, thank you. We are now going to the Amendments of the Independent Representatives Club. The first is the amendment to the article. Seven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130523	The amendment is not accepted. Regardless of the fact that the councils and representatives of national minorities are elected in units of local and regional self-government in order to participate in public life and local affairs management, it should be pointed out that different choices are being made under different rules and given the specificity of individual elections. For example, councils and representatives of national minorities are selected by a majority electoral system while members of the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional, regional self-government are chosen by a proportionate electoral system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130524	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130525	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, let's try to explain the intensity of this amendment. So if you ask me, old God Badurin, I once asked, "God knows how he vineyards," he says, "Where does the grapes come from?" That's how these elections could be called where the voter is. These elections are being attended by very few voters, and it is precisely the urgency of this proposal that there is a greater turnout to bring these elections together with local elections. And secondly, you're right when you talk about different approaches to the majority and proportional system. But it was my problem to draw up this amendment, too, because it's hard to fit a law like this. It would be just as good for these elections to go with a proportionate system because it would then allow one phenomenon that although in these elections citizens can only propose candidates and you know that in practice there is, that the president of the political party and the president of the Citizens' Association would then be allowed to... the system of multiple associations or members shall be given as many mandates as are actually provided for in that law and, in this way, those who have more to collect all the mandates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the intensity was the law to make the turnout greater. I demand a vote on this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130526	It means voting, thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Here you go, Mr. Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130527	The amendment is not accepted. The application ban referred to in Article 11(2) shall be prescribed in such a way as not to deviate from the current rules for the prohibition of running and which have been applied in all the election processes so far for the councils and representatives of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130528	Thank you. Sir, would you like to show yourself, Mr. Sagar? Yeah, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130529	Yes, yes, I do. Dear Secretary of State, Article 11(2) of the amendment refers to preventing this illogicality as it prohibits the running of deputy mayors of the municipality, mayors and mayors solely because of the date elected for office. It says in the law that the ban on the one chosen at the same time with the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. This amendment would also prohibit the other one, which is additionally chosen in a different way. Here's what law enforcement was all about. But I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130530	Fall back, thank you. 3. Amendment of the same club of independent representatives shall be made to Article 11, also in paragraph 3. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130531	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed restriction does not need to be applied in the event of a candidate for a member of the Council, i.e. a representative of a national minority or his deputy, given their advisory role in units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, it is assessed to further make the non-substantial more complex the running procedure. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130532	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130533	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, well, I understand that, you say you would agree and they have an advisory character. However, this provision is prescribed by the Law on the Selection of Representative Authorities of the Units of Self-Government. And it's not, it's not fair, look out, but I'll say it like this. All right, maybe it's logical, it's not good to pick both cops and criminals at the same time, to separate them. You forbid cops, you let criminals, it's not good for them to be together, so then I consider this your explanation logical. But I'm certainly asking about this, this is a very important amendment and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130534	Criminals in terms of anthropologists, Indians better put. Thank you very much. You're looking, you're pulling? ... No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Voting, voting. Thank you. Let's go to Amendment No. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130535	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Article 29 clearly provides for the right to compensation for the costs of the electoral promotion and the right to be exercised after the publication of the final results of the elections. It is therefore not accepted to provide additional information relating to the opening of a special account in the candidate lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130536	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130537	Thank you, Vice President. So this article is related, the amendment to Article 14 is related to Article 29 that you mentioned. So it's, one is allowed to repay funds, the other is not. In that sense, this amendment went to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130538	The vote. In the end, we have amendment 5 to Article 29(2). Mr. Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130539	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The right to compensation for the cost of election promotion shall be effected by the Council as a non-profit legal person or representative of a national minority chosen in the elections and in order to achieve the objectives of promoting and protecting the rights of national minorities in the self-government unit. This arrangement is in line with the provisions on the financing of councils and representatives of national minorities prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130540	The explanation of the amendments, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130541	Here, very briefly, for the public therefore. If they were to copy this to the Croatian Parliament, then if the Association of Citizens were to propose a list of MPs for, and then, on the basis of the elections in the Croatian Parliament, a fee for their election promotion would be given to the Croatian Parliament, it would be about a formulation of this law where it receives a council. But here it is... I'm looking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130542	The vote. So this was the last amendment. Thank you very much. Mr. Neelix. And now we'll have a break by 11:00 when there's going to be a vote. Here, a 50-minute break will do you good, I guess. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130543	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Selection of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities, Second Reading, No. 557. The applicant is Vlala Republic, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representatives Arsen Bauk and Gordan Maras and the Independent Representatives' Club. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will now vote on amendments that have not been accepted. Let's go in turn, Amendment No. First Agent Arsen Bauk and Gordan Maras, the government does not accept, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Two of the same deputies, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the Amendments of the Independent Representatives Club. Amendment No. One, the government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Two's down. Amendment No. 3 of the same Club of Representatives the Government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 4 of the same Club of Representatives the Government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And last amendment No. 5 The government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now let's go to the vote on the final bill. I'm stressing that it's consistent with the article. 252. The Rules of Procedure of the HS for the adoption of this law require a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130544	Mr. President, I believe he's been formally violated. 253. The Rules of Procedure shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Article 83(1) of the Constitution provides that the laws governing the rights of national minorities are to be passed by a majority of two-thirds of the votes of all MPs. I don't have, so this is about one thing, we can tell the technical law that, by not passing, nothing special would have happened, but this would have been a precedent for the Language and Letter Act of National Minorities, for education, etc. and I ask you to take note of my objection and if you consider my remark unfounded, then I will refer it to the Committee on the Constitution. to discuss these other laws. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130545	Thank you very much. Therefore, the interpretation is that this law applies to the electoral system, and to pass such laws requires most votes from all MPs in HS. Of course, you have the right to your opinion and feel free to address the committee responsible. So now I urge you to go to the vote on the final proposal of the Bill on the Selection of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities. Please, let's vote. I find that 80 votes for and 31 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the Selection of Councils and representatives of national minorities in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130546	We move to the next point, which is: - Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2017. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 25. The Free Zone Act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, Zdenko Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130547	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs, I thank you for your word. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2017. In addition to presenting this report is a legal obligation, it also contributes to the promotion of free zone systems, specific to the opportunities it offers, as well as to business rules for users of free zones. For the sake of integrity and clarity of the topic, this report on the business of free zones contains a view of the legislative framework governing the establishment and operation of those in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 11 free zones were operated in the Republic of Croatia, at the same time 82 free zones were operated in 22 Member States in the EU. As regards the data on the business of users of free zones listed in the report, we draw attention to how data are shown in a way that compares free zones at 2017 level with each free zone separately for the last 5 years and from 2013 to 2017 respectively. Since the free zone of Varazdin has ceased to operate in the free zone regime on 31 December 2016, in the year for which this report is submitted, the number of free zones operating in the Republic of Croatia has been reduced by one free zone compared to the previous periods. Data interpretation should also bear in mind the specificity of port free zones operated by port administrations whose activity is prescribed by the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. The revenues of the port administrations are primarily port fees and concession fees on the maritime good. Since the main role of port administrations is as non-profit institutions, maintenance and management of the port area, there is no obligation to pay concession fees for free zones for ports of free zones. According to aggregated data on business in free zones, 2017 92 users did business in the free zones. 2906 workers were employed in free zones. Main financial indicators of users of free zones in 2017 The following, users totalled 2,51 billion kunas of revenue, at the level of all free-zone entrepreneurs a loss of 23.74 million kuna, however, total investment by entrepreneurs in the zones amounted to 428.8 million kuna. The share of exports in the total income of users of free zones was 38.5%, in port free zones it is significantly higher and is 75.3%, while in land-based areas it is only 10.1%. Exports, including the delivery of goods to the EU market and free zones, amounted to $965.54 million. It is important to remind that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU has changed the circumstances of the free zone business. In fact, EU membership for a number of users, i.e. Entrepreneurs operating within the free zones until then have been reduced to the attractiveness of their business in the free zones regime, since these users are mostly operating on the EU's internal market. However, business in the free zones remains attractive to users operating with third countries, which is evident from the above mentioned data on business in free zones in port areas or data on the importance of the share of exports in the income of entrepreneurs. Based on this, the report itself proposes the adoption of the 2017 Free Zone Report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130548	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130549	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Mr. Lucic, the question I have is this report for 2017. The report for 2017 shows for two free zones, which is Split-Dalmatia County and Kukuljanovo, all zeroes, in 2018 and 2019 respectively, if these are still free zones that we will see in the 2018 report or no more, because all you have data, so when it comes to these two free zones are zero and your employees and incomes and with third countries, so the meaning of them is very questionable, so I'm curious whether in 2018 something has changed, so more so when you look at the Republic there are 11 free zones, the Czech Republic is 8 closest to us, so I'm wondering if there has been any changes?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130550	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130551	I can only say that... For the purpose of having company users, they choose to be in the system... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] so that they see the benefits of existence and business in those zones, Split-Dalmatia is in liquidation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130552	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130553	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, therefore, of the very report on the business of free zones in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we have just heard the Secretary of State and I do not think there is a need to repeat everything he has told us here, since in this report we have received it in writing. What is important is to point out, here we have just heard from Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash's debate about the free zones themselves and what they represent, which they mean for the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the free zone is part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia which is specifically fenced, marked, in which they carry out economic activities with certain special conditions. Now, when we talked and every time we talked about these reports, this particular question was being raised between all of us, whether or not the business zone. Looking at our environment, looking at the European Union, having data on how many such regimes of business free zones there are in different countries, each of them has its own specificities. For example, Germany, which is in some way a model in certain segments of the economy, has only two business zones in the area, is a similar situation in France and in many other European Union countries. But when we look at the models and ways of business of the businessmen in those business areas, I see absolutely no reason to allow such a thing, if there is an interest in our area, just as the secretary of state here was pointed out to the owners. The question has been mentioned here, and I can talk about it because in some way as President of the Assembly and as the owner of such a zone in my city for almost 13 years, we've been making very important decisions, we're developing this area, so in this area of this area, which, in some ways, thanks to the engagement in the construction of infrastructure throughout the past years, attracting economic operators, are operating two areas in the free zone regime. One is full, the other is how we heard empty here. We have a zero in the report. However, why make it impossible for an economic operator who comes to our territory, who comes and even from some other countries, to make such a possibility possible? I can also talk here from experience about urban plans that we have in some ways limited ourselves by giving, by strangling some parameters that ultimately made it difficult for the economy to invest them. I've pointed out countless times here that the businessmen are timid, they're looking for a location where they can get the best benefits for their work, they're looking for the best conditions and they're looking for something that's very important, and what we often ignore, time. Therefore, the time that will allow them to have all the infrastructure built as soon as possible, to get all the necessary permits and to start implementing their projects. That the purpose of business and free zones in this sense and this regime has stalled in one particular segment, as well as the Zone Varazdin, which has practically come out of the regime at the request of the economy, mostly because most of their market was in the European Union, has lost the meaning of this business by entering Croatia into the European Union. Therefore, the coastal coastal coastal areas, therefore, have a completely different system and in some ways, for example, Luka Rijeka, becomes a touching point for third countries, practically a front door for the European Union. And that part shows the sudden shifts, therefore, that business free zone of Kukuljanovo and Škrljevo are practically one zone, in two different ownership treatments. One is therefore invested, this Škrljevo has been invested in the past year by 113 million kuna, over the past two years over 200 million kuna. Here in the report we have the data that I think is most important here. What does the data tell you? Whether someone says there is a huge or too much zone in Croatia, whether that zone has that zero, or whether it has some growth, will depend on the economy, on the market, but it must be there in order to negotiate with the investor, attract investors if there is an interest on their part, to enable such a regime. And the data here is clear. So we have 2906 employees in the area of all zones in the Republic of Croatia, we have income, income from users of all these zones 2 billion 509 892 million and 808 kuna, so 2 billion 509, almost 510 million kuna. It is a zoran indicator that they in some way mean that if we look at all those investments in that space, considering that these areas within the business zone are not only spaces that are defined by an urban plan with built infrastructure, but according to the applicable legislation they must be specially built, especially marked, they must have 'in their space and customs services, especially in a different way equipped, which in some ways means that they are also large investments in them. So, looking at everything we're talking about, especially the part that we've already gained enough experience by entering the European Union over the past few years, the landlord must have in that sense his needs what, as far as possible, is available to him. So, in 2015, during Milanovic's Government, the Association of Free Zones proposed certain corrections in the legal regulation regarding both the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, and in that part that applied to those concession fees themselves, for different regulations, in some ways this report is visible to some kind of shift in the sense that we can monitor and what is good, which is not one or the first Report, but over the past few years we have these reports consecutively, so that we can follow in which way, which zone, in which part of the Republic of Croatia, depending on whether it is a land zone or in the coastal area of business, acts, how many investments are, how many are the number of employees, and how many are the interfaces, or entry, the exit from countries outside the European Union. That trends are changing, show the data we have here and in this 2017 report, where there are even four non-business European Union countries, and they did not have in their area of free zone, in the past, therefore, in 2017, for which this report refers, they opened them. Croatia, the specificity of that, that we are a Mediterranean country, is that on its entire coastal edge we have a touch with this circulatory system of seaports, we have a geostrategic position that allows us to hit deep into the European mainland, we have the situation that a little while, since the world in some way, we are aware of, has become what is often the global village, the interface and those European countries whose member we are, whose family we are in, but here we also have the possibility of attracting investment, and in our contacts there are also down at the coast, and with Chinese investors, already there are many conversations with many investors outside the European Union, and I think that we should consider keeping free zones, in some way, to think about some new privileges in order to get as many investors into this area as possible, and to open up as many jobs as possible. So, the report itself doesn't have to talk too much, it's practically uniform throughout all these years, and it's good that that's because we can compare them all over the past few years, see what's happening on the ground, and in some ways, uh, make decisions that will mean improving the whole system. Here, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130554	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU, on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130555	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, distinguished secretary of state with an associate. We have a report for 2017 on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia. When any Report comes and we discuss it, then you discuss, on the one hand, the Report, the way it was made, but on the other hand, about everything that is written inside and what has certain and much broader connotations, and a much wider story. We as a club of GLAS and HSU will support this report, it is made in the manner of the former reports, we have all the information you need to have so the Parliament can decide, it is very correct in the technical part, and we have no objections there. But when you have a report like this then you open up a series of questions, you actually open up, what are the opportunities in Croatia at all. We're like someone who's liberal, we stand up for a whole bunch of possibilities, because if you give a wide range of opportunities, then you really have more and you open up a lot wider that someone who wants to invest, who wants to come, who wants to act there, will find their niche somewhere you can. If you're very small-minded, if you only have some narrow stuff, then you can't do it. And these, these free zones, I read in this context, and it is not a problem that Croatia has 11, Czech Republic 8, for the simple reason that the processes were different. We here distinguish between those old, base countries that are members of the European Union, we distinguish those who have entered each other, in a few steps, and Croatia that entered the last, which has suffered terribly, we have also struggled with those free zones, at all what and how. What they mean, which is business, one of the free zones of Varazdin, they told us very quickly, is not responsible for us being a free zone, so they chose not to be a free zone because something else was right for them. I purposely asked about these two, the Split-Dalmatia County and Kukuljanovo, are about different situations. So it's about the situation of Split-Dalmatia that goes, as you said, actually disappears, it goes into this sort of process, and the answer for Kukuljanovo has actually given me a respected parliamentary representative, Klaric. I do, I think that, perhaps in two sentences, you have a equipped zone at the moment, at this point there are no users inside, and you leave it as such for can be for the non-users or one moment when it might stop being a free zone, but it will become something else. You have nothing else at this moment and it remains as it is, and that's the right answer to the question as it is. So, I have, I don't know what to do with her, I'd better stay free of evil, or at some point be something else. Compared to the infrastructure, it's been done a lot for these free zones, because since then it's seemed to us that it's in a certain way a small way out into Europe and that we can, therefore, be able to be able to be more competitive and somehow more interesting to the economy. So we have absolutely nothing against it and that those free zones remain, and we'd better keep it free until we know with one space where you don't have someone to go for another. The worst thing that can happen to us is that this infrastructure that's been invested, for, for everything, to ruin it for you, so that's the worst thing, because it's still invested, the money's spent, it's better to turn it into something else than simply fail. And I have to admit, I also understand why there are more free zones. Croatia has one specificity. It is your fault, on the one hand, on the other hand. That kind of muffin or bird on the flight. I prefer the birds on the flight where you actually have, so your territory is that we have to have some things more than they have countries that have some more proper shape. It's just our advantage and our fault. And there we also need to distinguish and when we talk about these free zones, we really need to distinguish those that are ports from those that are not ports. For the simple reason that port and you see it when you take both the number of employees and when you see these potentials, you see that Luka Ploče, Pula Rijeka, Split is somewhat smaller than Ploče, Pula Rijeka and in a number of employees and in certain ways both in the activity and in exports to third countries, you actually see that one of their potentials. But that's the potential we have and that we need to develop. In other words, I'll be very brief because it's already the end of the day, so this is not exactly the topic that some great interest has in the Parliament. The report is correct and you can always say that I would do it one way or another but it's not right and it's not fair. So it's rightly done, all the data we need to have we can read. And the topic is free zones, if we don't have and we don't know what's going to happen next, it's better to stay free until we have some other method or other way. As the world changes at this point, as all the technology that we have here on tables, smartphones and everything else, so the relationship to the economy, the relationship to investment, changes from day to day. For each country, it is incomparably better to have a greater, greater possibility of any offer. It's bad for every country if you're trapped in your own backyard and don't come out of that yard. I read the subject of free zones that way, as long as someone's inside, someone's working and seeing their interest and free zones have their own justification and stay. And as for Kukuljanovo, it might turn into something else, maybe it's not a free zone, maybe it's something else. But the worst thing would be if it wasn't nothing. So, the worst thing would be if it weren't for nothing is the worst thing that could happen to be something that doesn't use anyone. Therefore, we must simply change these things, and we must do so in relation to the free zones, but also with regard to the offer that Croatia should have according to foreign investments, because we are often a stepmom to foreign investors, but then we are also a stepmom to ourselves. They don't have patience, they don't have enough energy to even understand what we're saying and move on. Therefore, what we need to be is to be open to everyone and thus open to the ideas of free zones. And I have to admit that when I read all this data, I don't have any dilemmas about why there are two in Croatia and two in Italy and in Croatia... Because of certain specificities, because of history, because Italy is much longer in the EU than Croatia, because it did not have any needs that we had. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the free zones are with us reality. What we need is to leave them as they are. And what the secretary of state was answering to me, he said, well, that's actually a need. And it's good that it's necessary and that we can respond to that need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130556	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first respected representative, Ivan Lovrinovic, was to be discussed, is missing, is losing his right to speak. Then he needed a respected representative, Gordan Maras, gone, lost his right to speak. That concludes the debate and we'll vote when we get the conditions for that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130557	Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2017 The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2017 shall be adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 96 for, 2 abstentions and 2 votes against the accepted conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130558	We're going to go to the next point that has a and b part. - (a) Proposal for a decision authorising a member of the Competition Protection Council (b) Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Competition Protection Council is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 27. The Law on the Protection of Competition. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and craft Zdenko Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130559	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs, I thank you for your words. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to adopt a Decision authorising a member of the Council for the Protection of the Competition of Ms Vesna Patrlj on 21 February 2019 for the expiry of the term of office. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also proposes to adopt a Decision appointing a member of the Competition Protection Council also to Mrs. The Vesne Patrol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130560	Thank you very much. We have, does the Committee rapporteur want to take the floor? No, thank you. Then we move on to the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130561	Thank you very much. Of course, this theme, by looking at names, is probably not going to mean much to us. The proposal is legitimate, it comes from the government, and as such, it might now be a name that might sound like that to us and say what we're not in agreement or we're in agreement. But what we all want to do is actually discuss the Competition Protection Agency in view of the importance it has gained, primarily regarding the Law on the Prevention of Unfair Commercial Practices, which we see here now, a little more comes to us a year from its application. And our expectations are much higher. And that's why the expectation of people coming to a new position is good for them to be someone who brings new strength. And there's a responsibility we're asking the Ministry to make sure that people who are proposing to be really aware that if we don't solve this situation in haste, that all problems, those who come with unfair commercial practices, will not be solved. By passing the law that we have supported here in this home, almost 100% has received support. It must have been expected that the agency as an executive body would be significantly faster, and now we're here where we see that some 30 procedures are in the process of one 200 which was a variety of words of procedure, so then we came to the conclusion that 30 people in the unfortunately narrow circle where certain problems were found to exist. And now that key decisions should be made, there's a change of people and we're always wondering if the new people who come here are going to say yes, but before me, it's not fast enough or strong enough and we're going to have a new stalking. Because of this, it's really important that in this proposal you have briefly elaborated, we have a solution, but it's called, but what's missing is actually the position of the ministry and you as a representative on behalf of the government in the end here in this debate to say, that with these people, we're actually going to achieve a new effect, we're aware that these actions are taking too long, that we have to speed up the procedures, so we've hired new people, but now 1.4 last year it's practically a month's going to happen, and our primarily agricultural producers who are working on the market still haven't got an answer to whether something is going to change in this season. If we're going to remove all the obstacles that have been happening, we can see that from one of the obstacles that we've removed may actually have been found some, not possibly but certainly found new models to skip that part. I have now referred to one aspect which is also the most sound perhaps most needed at this point, of course I understand here and as a minister what it is that exists in front of the agency and much more demanding and complex procedures to prevent the creation of actually other practices that affect the competition that we are aware of here. Of course, there we can primarily relate to the future of Agrokor as a system around and announce that there are certain parts to be taken over. There is also a link between Agrokor and certain companies, all of which can affect the market situation in the long term and what we feel on this one of our small markets, each merger is another competitor less, even more pressure on consumers and it is certain that recognition of such practices that will sometimes appear as legitimate, however legitimate and morally is not the same from the aspect of someone who needs to be the user of many products and services we have. It happens to us that the increasing concentration is very difficult in certain areas more and find products that were once through a diversified, diversified bidders all present. We are increasingly feeling that products are being ordered, coming from the same source and that this price is being set practically throughout the area. It's very demanding and working at the agency and making decisions, but what I'm sure here and I'm going to demand here on behalf of all those who are actually expecting results, and that's to speed up and it significantly speeds up all the procedures. Today we discussed how the State Commission for Public Procurement has become more efficient, they resolve their own procedures faster, the time limit for concrete answers can be reduced and solutions. Here we also expect no more deadlines for a year in terms of unfair commercial practices, but that if we see in one season a treatment that cannot be seen, it is not acceptable for those who try to apply them to be sanctioned. In this sense, the proposal by the ruling legitimate is a proposal from us that we expect much better to handle the things that are related to the agency, to push, to solve as many cases as possible, and then finally we can measure the success of these governments as well as this proposal that comes before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130562	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and SNAGE in the name of which the honourable representative Ivan Pernar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130563	Dear ladies and gentlemen, competition or fair competition assumes that all economic operators within a system are equal. But is this the case in Croatia? No matter who was appointed to run the Competition Protection Agency, I'm afraid the situation will remain as it is right now, and she's next. Private business banks have a monopoly on making money. If private banks do not want to lend money to legal entities, natural persons or the state that money cannot enter into circulation. And why is that? Because our central bank CNB can't lend state money because it's a Mastricht contract in '92. the prohibited primary money emissions, i.e. direct State financing by the central bank. Moreover, since the CNB cannot directly finance the state without neither the financing of business entities or businesses or citizens, it is clear that the commercial banks are in fact controlling the process of releasing money into circulation, and thus by returning credit and revoking it. In this way, ruling the bank's financial system can cause artificial credit crises, but also do unnecessary inflation through secondary emissions. I'll explain what's going on. Money as such is divided into those that exist de facto, so in reality, it's paper money plus coins and those that exist in theory, meaning that legally exists on the screen, like computers. That money, that virtual money is also called a secondary emission, or the process of creating secondary money, I would say is secondary emissions. Private banks create this money by multiplying loans and deposits, so banks essentially do some parallel money emissions, so the Central Bank creates a certain amount of money, but private banks from that amount of money can create 2, 3, 4, 5 times that virtual money. This virtual money that exists only on computer screens has a real impact on inflation because when you pay for it, for example. TV in the store, you ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't matter whether you pay with a card or cash, simply the one who sells TV, it's important to him that he gets money, whether he gets virtual money on the bill or cash on his hands, he doesn't care, and thus the impact of that money on the price rise or so on. demand of goods is essentially identical. Unfortunately, our country has actually alienated monetary sovereignty by accepting the Master's Treaty or by harmonising the CNB Statute with the Statute of the European Central Banks, and has put itself, and thus us as citizens in a dependent position against foreign private creditors. By turning the central bank into a currency exchange book or kuna into a bonus for EUR in which the kuna model only acts as a currency, and in fact it is only a monetary model, we have actually lost the basic mark of the statehood of a country, and that is our money. Our money today is actually EUR-o, the EUR-o that the foreign banks in the CNB exchange for kunas and then again these kunas exchange in EUR when they repay the external debt. The simplest way to understand this Kuna binding for EUR is to see the exchange rate of kuna compared to EUR, it is quasifixed between 7, let's say 4 to 7.5 kn for 1 EUR, and that's the case from year to year for decades. Such a model of this quasifix course is the result of the CNB exchange rate. If you're interested in what that term means, Google the notion of the currency board, in English.../The speaker speaks English/...and you'll see what it's really about. If you as a people are not informed about how the financial system works in our country, you will find yourself in a situation where at one point both states and citizens and businesses will all be over-indebted on the one hand, and on the other hand we will be in a void, this situation many are already experiencing, the state is already in that state, many companies are in that state, which is why many citizens are in that state, which is why they are blocked and many have moved out. By continuing to implement this model, its consequences will be increasingly evident and increasingly visible as time will pass, and one of the latest features of such a model, such a policy will be the disappearance of our people from these areas, which was pointed out in its own time and respected science by Slavko Kulic. Those who are at the top of this, let me put it this way, the puppet hierarchy or that quinslin system of rule are the ones who will be the last to die, so the system will either represent us as agents or I don't know, bank directors, etc., the last one will eliminate us, but basically we as a people are destined to disappear because we're not going to run a population exchange policy. I'll give you a banal example, does the Republic of Croatia have enough workforce? Yes or no? The answer is that, then the question is asked, and why are we introducing labour, we introduce because wages are so miserable in our country, so our workers don't want to work on construction in Croatia, but go to Germany, our workers don't want to do jobs, say, waiters or maids at sea, so they have to import workers from abroad, but is the problem with the lack of workers or small wages? You can see from the plane that the problem is in small wages, that people move out for that reason. And why are wages so small? Look where our money goes, follow the money trail, just this year we're going to give 35 billion kuna for EU membership 4 billion, foreign banks are going to make a profit on my estimate of at least 6 billion kuna, that's about 45 billion kuna or more than 20 Peles bridges. So that's the amount of money we give to foreigners annually, they give us crumbs in return, and so people wonder how it's possible that despite all these foreign exchanges, we as a state are increasingly in debt, why we have a hole in the budget, why we can't find enough workers, why the ratio of pensioners to workers is as it is, etc. What it would end with today's exposure is actually the next thought, which is that this system doesn't need workers this system needs slaves, slaves of debt, slaves of small wages, slaves of any political or economic entities that can manage these people on a remote control or can destroy their lives economically or allow them to survive naked, but more than naked survival very hard, even if an individual put enormous effort into their education to become, say, a doctor or an engineer or whatever. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130564	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDZ, on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Klaric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130565	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think there is no need here to talk too much about this proposal for a Decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Council on the Protection of Competition, however, as the debate has already been withdrawn and, while we are talking about competition, it is important to point out that competition is a feature of the economic structure, that there is a constant conflict and a struggle between supply and demand, that there is huge competition and that there are possible developments of all kinds. For example, this is exactly what we were able to read today and the news, since I have been contacted by the businessmen in my area about such activities that have been happening in our area, where directly companies that have been legally involved in production, by the equipment of artillery had unfair competition in those who are opening up, closing down firms, and this is likely to be seen through the next days and months of what it was all about, here is one of these examples that should certainly be highlighted and persistent in this fight to prevent such an event, that all these irregularities that occur, the abuse of well-intentioned laws that are going on in this sense, are properly and in time sanctioned so that those who respect legal regulations, such as those who by economic development, investment, in their investments, in their facilities, in paying for all the state, and local self-government in the Republic of Croatia could not be damaged in any way. In this case, and regarding this Decision as stated in the Law itself, the re-election function is for members who are appointed for a period of five years and as indicated in the Article of the Law itself, can be re-appointed. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community relating to the discharge of Ms Vesna Patrlj from the position of a member of the Competition Protection Council on 21 February 2019, to the end of the term of office and also to the Decision appointing a member of the Competition Protection Council, Mrs Vesna Patrlj, a member of the Competition Protection Council. And I don't think there's any obstacle to this decision being supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130566	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The Honorable Agent Ivan Pernar is not here, he is losing his right to debate. The next individual debate is the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130567	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, all present here. I'm going to talk about, a little bit about the competition, it's from real life, what it looks like in real life when banks do market business and when they compete. Here's what I was talking to a legal expert today, who worked at a big European bank, I'm not going to say what bank it is, I'm not going to say who told me that, there's time for that. Mostly he worked in this big bank that is the mother of one of our banks here in the Republic of Croatia. And then he explained how the mother bank works in Austria. The mother bank said when she's doing a loan there, then she's doing a loan consisting of a fixed interest rate and a variable interest rate. And then the one who's agreed on such a loan can follow his credit all the time and see how the credit changes. It shall be changed on the basis of a change in the variable parameter. The banks in the Republic of Croatia only started to operate in 2013, until then they worked completely wildly, and they negotiated loans that, in which the interest rate was changed by Decision of the Bank. And I'm told by this legal expert, he was once at a time in Zagreb, and the daughter's bank was preparing a new credit line, and he saw in that credit line that the interest rate provision was being prepared exactly as I said it would change the interest rate by decision of the bank. And he tried to change that, because he knew that in Austria it didn't work that way, and he knew that it didn't hold water, that such an interest rate should not change. However, colleagues in Zagreb's business or in Zagreb's central bank owned by the mother's bank, these colleagues and colleagues told him: "No, we won't do that because the CNB doesn't defend us, no one here prevents us from doing so, it is better for us to negotiate an interest rate so that it is changed by Decision of the Bank. But he says to them: "But fellows, it is indeterminate to you, it is not in accordance with the Law of Mandatory Relations. The real ones said, "No, but nobody forbids us to do that. That's how we're gonna do it here. And so not only did the bank, so did all foreign-owned banks in the Republic of Croatia, until 2013, agreed on an interest rate that is changed by the Bank's decision, which, of course, was decided to be unfair and harmful. But what happened after that collective verdict? Nothing. The banks have robbed the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by nearly 5 billion kuna at such interest rates alone, increasing interest rates with their decisions. What happened to the banks about that? Nothing. Do colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament understand what most are about? They don't understand. Although I've said it at least a hundred times here, they don't understand, they don't want to understand and they don't want to bring banks in line, neither the government of the Republic of Croatia, nor colleagues, nor the MPs, nor the CNB. In a capitalist country, a bank that would do so would be severely punished and would have to pay all the money back to the stolen citizens. This is not happening in Croatia. In Croatia, every citizen must go to court on his own, sue the bank himself and wait 3, 4 years for him to get his money. I'm announcing and I'm really going to do it, I'm going to criminally report all the Croatian banks that did business like that, I'm waiting for the Franak case to be completed completely because it's already been decided that the banks were doing so but the audits are currently being carried out at the Supreme Court, when these audits are completed, I'm going to report to the Croatian banks who unfairly and thereby illegally negotiated interest rates and I'm going to ask them to be punished. I expect the agency to help. It is the agency that should also react, I will raise all evidence to the agency, and I will also ask the agency to launch a criminal persecution against Croatian banks in foreign property that they have been taking and still taking Croatian citizens. It is certainly 5 billion kunas kidnapped, illegally charged interest from Croatian citizens in all currencies of credit and kunas and in euro and francs because in all these loans the banks have agreed on an interest rate so that it is changed by the bank's decision. The interest rate should consist of a fixed interest margin and a variable part. The fixed margin must contain the total risk of the bank, it must contain what concerns wages, what concerns operating costs, what concerns the risk of the state as such, to the risk of the population not paying off their loans and the variable parameter refers to the bank’s profits. So the variable parameter is what the bank makes on credit. For years, however, the banks changed the interest rate with their decision, which contained none of these elements, but simply automatically increased when they liked them, reducing the pressure on them, and so it periodically went a little worse, a little lower. Therefore, I hope that the new member of the council, as well as the agency, will take into account all that I have said, will also take into account what I will send one day in writing and will launch the criminal persecution of banks that should be punished hundreds of millions of kunas that will end up in the Croatian budget, which must be returned to Croatian citizens of billions of kuna, which will eventually end up in GDP and in the budget again and thus finally stop robbers in their quest to the Republic of Croatia and to Croatian citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130568	Thank you very much. The next individual debate should be the respected representative of Gordan Maras, gone, lost his right to speak. And that concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130569	a) Proposal for a decision authorising a member of the Competition Protection Council and a) Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Competition Protection Council. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I give the vote first, the proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the Board for the Protection of Competition, please vote. I find that most of the 96 votes for, 4 abstentions have been taken to decide on the resolution of a member of the Board for the Protection of Competition. I am now voting on the second, Proposal, i.e. b) Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Competition Protection Council, please vote. I find that most votes, 93 for, 3 abstentions and 3 against decisions taken to appoint a member of the competition council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130570	Now we move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Family Law Amendments, first reading, P.Z. No. 228 Proposer: Agent Ivan Pernar Based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. [[Intruder Pernar: Yes.]] Dear Representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130571	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is assumed in Croatia that about 5% to 6% of children do not have fathers that are listed in the birth certificate, i.e. mothers listed as fathers, or people who did not. Such a practice is questionable not because I think it is not possible for a father to agree with his mother to admit a child that is not his, I find it correct if a man wants it, not a problem, but this is about 2,000 fathers in Croatia every year not knowing that they are not fathers who are being led as their own. While marriage works, as long as it all falls apart, while the family's together, everything's great, there's no problem. At one point, however, a divorce occurs between a husband and a wife or a divorce of an outmarried community. At that moment, what's going on? What's happening is that the court is going to assign a father to pay his child's alimony. But, Father, what if he does a DNA test and finds out that he's not the father of the child he pays for alimony? It's a very, very sensitive and ticky question and I'll explain why. The father has the right to search for DNA through a test, or to establish paternity until the child is seven years old. When the 7th year is over, and if the father finds out that the child is not his after those 7 years, the father can no longer dispute paternity and must pay child support even though the father is not. It's supposed to be done to protect the child's interest, but imagine that you're the father who found out he was cheated, that the child for whom he pays the child's alimony is not his, so it's a big shock. That's what a man gets by his head. And now, imagine the situation that's happening. The system claims that it is in the child's best interests that this father continues to pay child support even though he is aware that children are not his and although he is aware that, i.e. Even though he doesn't want to. The thing in Germany is different. In Germany, if a mother falsely catches a person and makes child support of him, even though he is not a father, if found out about it, the mother is obliged to take the money from him unfounded, to return the money she took and to force the child's alimony from the person who the father is from. So it's not a question here whether a mother should have the right to seek child's father's alimony, it's not disputed, it's nowhere, but what's questionable is whether it's correct for a mother to force alimony from a person who's not a father, even when that person found out. Although the number of such cases is considered to be very small in the public opinion, in a conversation with one person who works in one hospital, she told me that when blood tests are done, to determine which person would be the best donor, or which is the most consistent with, say, a sick child, it goes to his brother or sister. However, he says, in every fourth case, we saw that his brother or sister did not or did not have the same father. And I ask this doctor, well, Doctor, then what do you say to your parents, for which reason the child can't receive, say, bone marrow, for example. from a brother or sister. And he tells me, we just say they don't match, and that's how we get out, not telling people the truth. Also, I'd like to say an example of blood tests. So it's known that blood type tests can, can't determine who the father is, but they can be determined through these tests of blood groups that the father certainly isn't. And my wife tells me she was in elementary school when they were in high school or high school, the professor told them that they went to school at the time to do those tests to learn that. And then the professor sent home the students and said, "Here, find out what blood type your parents are and who you are and then see how it works." He says, but at one point it happened that the blood groups didn't match, that as a father, she was a person who couldn't have been a child's blood type. And that's when he stopped doing it. In France, it's such a common phenomenon that a child's father is not the one who's enrolled in books, that it's forbidden to do home DNA tests. So if you want to do that test, it's forbidden, so you can only go to court. On this occasion, I would like to point out in the finale that I have nothing against the person who falsely catches a man. And he condescends to him that he is his child, and he is not. If a man agrees with lies and fraud, or if he is unaware, which is his problem, he was naive. However, in case a man is not naive, he suspects and proves that the child is not his. In such a case, should a father pay child support, or should a mother who makes child support from a person who is not a father, be she fair, or rather should the law protect such mothers? Right now, the law of such a mother protects. I'd also like to warn you of one thing. Imagine, for example, you find out that the child is not yours, but you're married to that person and you decide to stay with her. And it's so-called. subjective deadline, so you have six months from the moment of knowledge and if you don't dispute paternity within six months, since you find out, then that's your problem. Because for example, imagine you, it's been like six months, you don't argue, then in three years you get divorced and then you remember to argue. So the legislator has already disabled it, the legislator clearly says, you have six months from the moment you find out you're contesting it. So, if the father is aware that he's not a father, and for more than six months. He kept his mouth shut about it, or he did not dispute paternity, and he no longer has the right to press charges against him. And regardless of that, the child turned 7 or not, so we're not here to discuss cases where the fathers know they're not fathers, which are listed as fathers in the books, but we're discussing cases where fathers don't know they're not fathers, where they're cheated. The laws are different from state to state. My opinion is that this law does not protect the child's interests because it actually deprives the child of knowledge or knowledge of who his father really is, that's one thing. The other thing is to deny a father who knows he's not a father, so here we're not talking about people who don't know they're not fathers, we're talking about people who know they're not fathers, so these people are making it impossible to argue with paternity, and it's actually going to be on the hands of mothers who are on fraud, so by misleading some man, they're running money from him on a child that's not his. This question is not a question of political afiliation or a question of partyism, this is a question of morality where each of us must ask whether it is right to force someone to pay child support that is not his. If the answer is that it is right and moral, it is my desire for the public or possible fathers to be aware that after 7 years they cannot sue for the challenge of paternity and that the system is in fact such that even later when they claim that they are not fathers, they will not be free from the payment of child support. This is a human question, a moral question, and I urge every person to take the stand he personally considers right. Also, I would like to say that the current law allows a child to challenge paternity by the age of 25, but it also makes it impossible for his father. So the law puts a father or a person who is not a father to a child in an unequal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130572	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. He wants a government official to further explain his opinion? Yes, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Maria Pleikosa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130573	Dear MPs and advocates of the current Family Law in the field of parental and child legal relations are arranged to identify and challenge motherhood and paternity. In accordance with Article 79 of that Law, a child, mother's or mother's child, may file a complaint for the dispute against paternity established by recognition, a man who is enroled in the Matica as a father of a child or a man who considers himself a father of a child who simultaneously asks for his paternity to be established. In accordance with Article 81 of the Law, the challenge of paternity is not permitted by the court’s decision and the dispute against paternity after the child’s death. In part of the procedural provisions of the proceedings in court, deadlines for filing an action to challenge paternity are prescribed. In accordance with Article 400 of the Law, a child can endure a case to challenge paternity until the age of 25. In accordance with Article 401 of the Law, an action to challenge the fatherhood of a child born during the duration of a marriage or for 300 days from the end of a marriage may be filed by the mother’s husband if he does not consider that he is a biological father within 6 months of the day of knowledge of the fact that leads to doubt about the truthfulness of the enrolment, and no later than 7 years of the child’s life. Furthermore, Article 402 of the Law stipulates that a man who is enrolled in the Matrix born as a father of a child on the basis of a paternity recognition, and then found out about a fact that excludes his fathership may dispute his paternity within 6 months of the day of knowledge of that fact, and no later than seven years of his child's life, at the latest. By the provision of paragraph 2 of the same article, a man who under duressly admitted the paternity of a child who he claims does not originate with him may dispute his paternity within 6 months of recognition and no later than 7 years of his child’s life. In Article 403 of the Law, a man who considers himself a father of a child may dispute the paternity of a person who has recognised that child as his own, if at the same time requests to establish his paternity within a year of enrolment of the recognition of paternity in the Matrix of the born. In accordance with Article 405 of the Law, a person with a legal interest may continue the paternity dispute procedure within 6 months of the death of a man who has initiated the procedure or within a month of the power of the succession decision. Therefore, the applicable legal provisions entitled to a paternity claim until the age of 25 of a child's life are allowed. The prescribed deadlines on the right to appeal for paternity by the child's father are in line with the highest standards of ensuring the protection of the child's rights and well-being. The government notes that in the same way or prescribed deadlines and the right to appeal for paternity and previous family law of 2003. For the reasons mentioned above, in relation to the proposed Law on Family Laws submitted, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes not to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130574	Thank you. We've got one replica, a respected representative of Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130575	Mrs. Maria Pleikosa, I only have one question for you and please answer it. Do you consider it moral and correct, legal and just that the person who has been deceived, who has been deceived, believes that a child is his child and is not, pays child support for that child even though it proves DNA analysis that the father is not only because he has passed a 7-year-old period or because the child is 7 years old, I ask you only for that answer, please do not be silent, please do not whisper that you do not want to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130576	Thank you very much. Next we will open the debate, and in the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the first respected representative, Ivan Pernar, will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130577	Mrs. Devereaux. Maria Pleikosa gave an effective speech in which she actually listed the number of really dry all possible provisions of the law, however, she refused to answer the fundamental question. I gave her this opportunity by replicating her presentation and asking her whether she considered her father to be a moral, just, fair, correct, that a person who was uncontestedly clear that she was not a father, who was deceived, or who was mistaken that she was a father, could not dispute paternity even though the DNA analysis proved that the father was not, just because the child turned 7 and said, there's an old saying that silence is a sign of comprehension. 'Cause Mrs. Devereaux is here. Maria Pleikosa rejects this law or the bill of this law, I can only conclude that Mrs. Pleikosa supports the practice of misleading both the child and the person he claims to be the father, which he is not, but also the father who is the father, who does not know he is the father. I believe that the current system, which in some way actually enables this delusion and supports this delusion and supports the lie, fraud, lying, manipulation, extortion of money without a legal basis in my court, if the apparent child is not of some person, and that person is forced to be alimony, I do not think that such a system can be normal, moral, correct, fair, just. By refusing to reply to me, you don't really dare say out loud what I say, which is that around 2,000 children a year in the Republic of Croatia are not from a father who is listed in their birth certificate, and that father doesn't know that, point one. And point two, that these people, even in the case of divorce, even if they find another woman and start a new family and have their own children, will have to continue to support other people's children because the law protects the people who cheated on them. I am truly deeply shocked and saddened by your attitude, by your conduct, and I find it hypocritical and it actually shows how far you are willing to go and how much you are able to wrong people who have done nothing to you. Those who are victims here are fathers, those who are, or false fathers, fathers who are not, who have proved that they are not, and yet have financial obligations against a child who is not their own, cannot simply accept such arguments, by the fact that the current law is not in the spirit or that it is not in line with the progress of technology or the fact that today we can simply and cheaply do a DNA analysis and where we can without a problem remove doubts about who the father is and who is not the father of a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130578	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of that HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Babic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130579	Dear Vice-President HS, the Honorable State Secretary of the Pleikosas, esteemed... Katkic, a respected colleague of Pernar and other colleagues and colleagues, therefore, you have referred to the parliamentary procedure of the bill on changes to family law, and it is related to the process of contesting paternity in the case of paternity, you said, the mother's husband, and this is called in the family law the challenge of marriage fatherhood, and when fatherhood challenges a man who has confessed to paternity or the challenge of extramarital paternity. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, what does the existing Family Law say? So you must always remember that the Family Law primarily protects the child, so the child should not be traumatized unless it has to be. In the head of the law for the purposes of determining or contesting motherhood or paternity, you are under procedure to determine motherhood or paternity, the procedure to challenge fatherhood, the child's suit, the mother's husband's suit, the suit of a man who confessed to paternity and the suit of a man who considers himself a father and a mother's child's suit. About that, you said it was effectively said by the Secretary of State. I'm not going to repeat myself. So, in your proposal, you are in charge of the article. 401. Family law and art. 402. In that article. You're having problems and you're misleading the citizens, but you're also trying to get the secretary of state to express answers to some of the things that you're asking for, which is fair, whether it's moral for the father to find out after the seventh year of the child that he's not the father, to continue to pay child support, so you said and so I understood you. So, the father always, at any time, at this point, we're talking about a mother, father, and child, or child who should not be traumatized after the moment of his father's knowledge within six months can therefore file for proof of paternity. If this does not happen after the 7th year of the child's life, the father may always request and be released in a civil case if the payment of the child's alimony is determined. Unless, unless I'm right, that's a private lawsuit. He can always ask for it with a private suit, I said in a civil suit. What maybe needs to be pointed out again, I mean, I don't know if the secretary of state was saying, you're being here... in Article 401, and 402, we have talked a lot about this, and there is also Article 79 and Article 80, in fact, when the court's decision, where paternity is not allowed, is determined by the court's decision, and the paternity dispute after the child's death. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you suggest that even after 25 years of a child's life that a father can actually prove that he is not the father of that child or that he would not pay, so as not to pay child support. The government of the Republic of Croatia has actually sent its opinion to the debate on the Family Law, suggesting that this proposal is not accepted and explained it for several reasons. Among other things, the government notes that the applicable law in the field of legal relations between parents and children is designed to identify and challenge motherhood and paternity. In that same opinion, the Government recalled this article 79. The law of the case in order to challenge the paternity of the marriage, as well as Article 81 of the Law, where paternity is not allowed to be challenged by the court's decision and the paternity dispute following the death of the child. By applying legal provisions, the right to a paternity claim until the age of 25 of a child's life is granted only to a child. For all of these reasons, the HDZ Club will not support this proposal to amend and supplement the Family Law by representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130580	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate, so she's been contacted by a respected representative, Ivan Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130581	Dear Prime Minister, I have one question for you, said the HDZ gentleman that it is possible, that it is possible to dispute the payment of alimony in civil litigation even after the 7th year of life if a person can prove that he is not a father. No, so you're saying it's not possible. So I'm asking you, here on the human side to answer me, can a father who, after the 7th year of his child's life finds out it's not, can in any way dispute the payment of alimony? And if you can, just say how people know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130582	Dear Secretary of State Maria Pleikosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130583	He can't argue with alimony payments, but he can sue his mother for fraud with a private suit. ... We don't know that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That depends on how the court decides. ... It's a matter of court, it's the court's decision. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130584	Okay, I think we got the answer, thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, gone, lost his right to speak. And by doing that, I'm going to conclude a debate on this point and we're going to vote on it when we get the conditions. We will continue to work so tomorrow, on Thursday and the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, second reading, P.Z. No. 574. Have a nice follow-up this afternoon. The session was interrupted at 17.53 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-27-0.u130585	Proposal for a law amending the Family Law, first reading, P.Z. No. 228th, the applicant is agent Ivan Pernar. The debate was concluded in accordance with the Proposal of the Assembly Working Body. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending family law is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 81 for, 2 abstentions and 3 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent board. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have reached the end of the vote. We'll continue to discuss clubs now, free speech. We have for the time being a registered "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" representative club and then two points will be discussed according to the announced schedule. ... No, no, right now, right now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] MEETING IN 12.07 HOURS Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs, waiting for the proposer of this bill, only information, so tomorrow's vote will be at 11 pm, not at 12 pm, but at 11 pm. Before that, we'll discuss the amendments so far with 20 of them. So, if there are more of them, we'll start right at half past ten with the amendments and then the vote and after that debate on the points, if there are 20 of them, then we'll be able to do a part of the point, and then we'll do the amendments, and we'll keep you informed during the day, but mostly plan your time to be at 11 o'clock voting. So, first item today: - Final proposal of the Act on Confirmation of the Protocol under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, second reading, P.Z. Number 574. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. You should now give an additional explanation to the motionor, but so far there is no applicant, so we can go further with the debate if you agree. Does anyone mind? I expect state secretary Andreja Metelko Zgombic to appear now. What's the matter? Well, I don't know if there's a meeting in the building. Yeah, then we'll take a break, here's a second someone's coming, here, here comes the secretary of state. I ask the State Secretary to hurry up because 9 and 35 were supposed to be here five minutes ago, so I ask you now to introduce this introduction to the Final Proposal of the Act on Confirmation of the Protocol under the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Here you go.
