ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130945	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office of Croatia, a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2018 was submitted. As you know the business of the office, the type of audit, the entities and subject matter of the audit shall be determined by the annual programme and the work plan. Thus, the work programme and the work plan for 2018 cover entities for which the provisions of the Law on the State Office for Audit and the Law on the financing of political activity and election promotion are prescribed to carry out the audit each year, which are the annual report, the revision of the annual report on the implementation of the State budget and the political party, the independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of local units. All other audits are planned solely on the basis of the legislation of the prescribed criteria such as material significance, risk assessment and collection of information on the audit entity as well as that segment which we must also take into account, which is an opinion that some entities may have received in previous audits, above all we think of therefore unfavourable opinion. This is how 224 financial audits were planned and carried out, 104 efficiency audits. I would just point out here, if you remember, I said here in 2011 that we are going one way as we are doing, all of our colleagues at EU level in the world and that efficiency audits are the ones we will have to deal with most in the future. In 2011, we did 2 efficiency audits, today we did 104, so we're going that way. Then 11 checks on the implementation of orders and recommendations, and 223 sees the financial report. The audits have been carried out in accordance with international standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions, the Code of Professional Ethics of the Work of State Auditors and, of course, the Law on the State Office for Auditing, including the examination of documents, reports, internal control systems and financial and accounting procedures in order to determine whether the data in the financial reports are accurate and the operations are carried out in accordance with the legal rules. The audit also gives an assessment of the effectiveness of the use and use of public funds and all reports of course are delivered to the Croatian Assembly and are published on the website of our office. In addition to the audit operations, co-operation with judicial and other bodies and international cooperation operations have been planned. As regards co-operation with judicial and other bodies as well as previous years and during 2018, the office has cooperated with these bodies before and after the audit was carried out. Documents and reports have been exchanged with, for 35 cases with the State's Attorney's Office, the MUP and the courts. The international cooperation carried out by the office through the exchange of views, experiences and professional literature is also important, with a view to equating the methodology of work and monitoring modern trends in the development of the audit profession in the world. I would particularly like to highlight cooperation with the European Court of Auditors and the European countries' top audit institutions with a long tradition and great experience. The Office shall also have the status of the internal auditor of EUROSAI of the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions of European Countries for the period from 2017 to 2020. I must point out here that we were chosen by a secret vote from our colleagues in Istanbul in 2017 with 39 participants we received 37 votes. This means that the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia is recognised by its professional and quality work by our colleagues. In addition, the office has the status of the internal auditor of EUROSAI of the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the European countries and therefore for this period that I have said. In addition, last year the office hosted a very successful annual meeting of the EU Contact Committee, which was made up of the leaders of the EU's top audit institutions, which took place in Dubrovnik in October of last year. The main theme of the meeting was the cooperation and relationship of the Supreme Audit Institutions with citizens and their achievement and their openness to the public. In this area, our office has a very advanced and developed practice. In the end, I'd like to refer to our new law, the Law on the State Audit Office that brought the Assembly here in this high house, so two weeks ago. This law increases the scope of the State Audit Office’s tasks relating to the increase in the number of entities for which the Office is authorised to carry out an audit, as well as to the tasks of verifying the implementation of the tasks and recommendations, or sanctioning their non-implementation. Currently, from 343 systematic jobs, the office has filled 284 with the fact that, in the last 5 months, the highest number of people has been reduced due to their retirement, due to the transition to other institutions by 19th. So, the volume of work for our office is increasing, and at the same time employees are leaving the office and it is difficult to find new employees who are professional enough to do such professional, professional and would say complex jobs in our profession, but I also hope that in the time that comes we will solve this problem. Of course, all those who do this job certainly know that one auditor would have to do his own audit work for at least five years, and that's one long period, so when young people come in, I would really say it's quite complex for the office. One of the key reasons why people leave is the height of the salary of the state auditors, who I repeat do very complex and complex jobs, wages are what they are and people unfortunately leave us. I believe that in this I would say a systematic resolution of the independence of the state audit which, by making a new law, certainly improves in some things, in order for that independence to be even stronger, based on recommendations from international institutions starting with the UN, I believe that when it comes to adopting a new law, and now it is in the making of a Law on the salaries of civil servants and subsistence, I believe that in the adoption of salaries for authorised state auditors for which there is a special law, I believe that this will be taken into account and that our work will be rewarded. Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. President, and thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130946	I thank the Chief State Auditor. We have seven replicas, but first we welcome students and students of Požega craft school, welcome. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130947	Thank you very much. Dear Chief Auditor, indeed your audits have been carried out maximumly, I see you lack both the people and the material and technical means, but the fact is that you have been warning from year to year about the problems that have exploded today. Examples 2012 and '13,'14,'15. And '16. You warned that the shipbuilding money was not spent on purpose. That was in all your reports. That's what I've been asking questions about, what is being taken to stop it. You did your job. Nothing has been done, and now that billions have not been spent on purpose, now the problem, and the state's audit has done its job. So he's in health care, so he's in school, all the money he's leaving doesn't go away transparently, you need to be strengthened, but you haven't been listened to, neither the state's attorney's office nor the other institutions have been doing their job, and that's why we have the case of the Oilman and others who will be [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130948	Would you like to respond? Okay. Let's move on, second replica, dear colleague Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130949	Dear President, respected chief state auditors and associates, so here I would like first as long-time head of local self-government to commend the state's audit because just thanks to the findings of the review 20 years ago in Vinkovci when they warned us about all the mistakes and failures that the city administration had done before me at the time, and even at the beginning, we corrected a lot of things and then after that we got to find them completely neat or without irregularities, and what I really care about is that we were at work every year if we had some problem that we didn't know how to solve it, we were looking for the opinion of the state audit, our office in Vinkovci. Now, that was a little bit, we couldn't get often written but just a oral report, or oral recommendation whether it's the rule now, I don't know anymore, that it can be asked, it's like a partner relationship actually to get an opinion to correct the wrongs or mistakes that city administration would make.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130950	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130951	Dear Mr. Representative, the State Audit Office, as you know, is not an advisory body, so we can only audit the audit process ourselves, make recommendations on how and how to solve the problem, unfortunately that is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130952	Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130953	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Chief State Auditor Mr Klesic, when you spoke about the audits carried out, you are in fact stating in your report that the obligations under powerful judgments or arbitration are not paid within the time limit set for the voluntary fulfilment of the obligations, which actually increases the expenditure on interest but also increases the costs of the executive procedure, the report says. Now, according to you, is it really because of the lack of funds to pay off, or is it, in fact, because of the inconsistencies of business, which is why there is a failure to pay off within that legal deadline for enforcement and arbitration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130954	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130955	Dear Representative Babic, I think that answer is very simple and short. It's always a problem, unfortunately, that money is due to a lack of funds, that's the answer to your question, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130956	Now it's all yours, Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130957	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Chief State Auditor, I'm one thing sure, in the State Audit there are no safely purchased diplomas, I'm sure you're doing a very serious and difficult job and therefore you need a certain knowledge and experience. What bothers me in your report, not that it bothers me that you put it in the report, it's true, but it bothers me to have a relationship with the State Audit, it says here that for professional training and education in 2018, 104 274 kn was spent on 351 kn per employee. I don't know if that's enough for a ride to the perfectment site. So it's a serious remark. And I don't think the new law has contributed much to your better work, but only one, if you can comment on one thing. With one request from the European Commission, the Office is involved in monitoring the implementation of fiscal policy measures and reform measures aimed at more effective protection and financial interests of the Republic of Croatia. Does the Ministry respect you on that? What shows this surveillance, implementation, fiscal policy measures and reform measures?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130958	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130959	I can't say that we have poor cooperation with anyone, therefore, a colleague is a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy and as far as the Ministry of Finance itself is concerned, our cooperation with colleagues from the Ministry of Finance is indeed at the highest level.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130960	Now it's your turn, pal Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130961	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable State Auditor, here's a card for well-provided audits, and you mentioned some 35 cases, co-operation with the State's Attorney's Office, is the question of how many cases have been initiated, and has anyone been convicted or often mentioned that a number of relapsers occur, which are often repeated and according to instructions not correcting the error, whether or not they have been brought up against them, and whether there has been no audit at the Ministry of Agriculture, because we see, according to the report by Mr. Hogan, the Commissioner for Agriculture, that 126 million kunas have been paid less to agricultural producers and in Croatia than Minister Tolusic shows, in your report, that the lists you have seen it and how it is possible that damages from the elemental disasters have been paid to as much as 11 million kunas of Virovitical and Podravina County, more than 12 counties have you noticed in your own audits that you've done in any ministry and that you've done so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130962	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130963	Your Honor, Mr. Attorney, so as far as the State's Attorney's Office and our cooperation with my colleagues from the State's Attorney's Office are concerned, I've already spoken quite a bit here, that's very clear. We do our own report, so we deliver to our colleagues everything that we think has some features of criminal acts, we single it out separately, we leave it to our colleagues as well as a full report. The further procedure is therefore on them and we do not therefore have any legal opportunity to ask colleagues to report to us what they have done under these cases. The colleagues file a report, an annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office here in this High House, then you can ask them anyway. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, I can answer you that the 2018 report is done and of course you will be able to see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130964	Now let's go to the esteemed colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130965	Your Honor. Well, I would like to point out that all the reports and work of the State Audit Office must be particularly highlighted because they are of great quality and anyone who wishes to have a full insight into the business of both state institutions, ministries, companies owned by the state and local self-government, can learn a lot of what Mr. Director himself has said, in fact, the possibility and recommendations themselves are much improved and it is visible how much of this is being repaired over the years and would like to highlight especially these efficiency audits that are very much relevant to us all and also to verify the European funds themselves and the use of funds themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130966	Thank you. There's no answer. And let's go to the last line, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130967	Thank you. Dear Mr. Klesic, the State Audit Office whose head you are, is one of the few institutions of the state that works in quality, but what am I interested in here? By systematization, you could have 343 employees, you have 299 as far as I've seen, only now you've increased the budget from 54 to about 60 million kuna, so you've been held low for years, we see how much investment in personnel, education, etc. Say, as you can on the one hand, you're in an uninvisible position with your associates, to meet the great demands of all of us, and on the other hand, you have such small resources. I assume that the fluctuation of the workforce that exists in your institution, as you mean to answer such a problem, means that you have great demands for all of us and resources limited.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130968	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130969	Dear Representative Lovrinović. This is how I answer your question. All of what you've stated is true. As I said, the number of people is shrinking, people are leaving, the good part of people I would say even, and if the shift was a generation, they're going to retire, and one small part is leaving because they find better jobs that are better paid. How to meet these requirements? Simply, we will always, and always do what needs to be done, but of course, if the situation remains, here's what it is, we'll have to cut down the plan of annual annual audits, because that's the only way we'll be able to meet those demands that are required of us, because everything has its limits and human efforts, too, and this job that keeps an auditor working, believe it's extremely complex, difficult, I would say, almost mining. So in the future, if we fail to hire people who are So we're going to have to approach a reduction in the number of audits. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130970	Thank you. We're going to the board now. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then we'll go to the hearing. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. We'll have two MPs. He's a colleague of Panenic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130971	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Respected State Auditor and Associates. Here, today we have this report, which, we agree, everyone here, shows a lot about how all levels of public government work. What I've heard here and commendation, what they first praise from those who should actually say, look a little bit better, so you'll see us. My colleague Karlić, he also praised the find for the city of Vinkovce 2016, I think it was done, it looks okay, but when we look at the companies owned by the city, what's standing there? So, all the problems, all the losses that come into this city transfer money. So we take the funds from the budget, what you do, we give you. Here's my colleague Milinkovic next to him, and he came to us recently, but as he came. What he writes in the report of the review for his company, it says that 2017's Mirkovci station shows that there is arsenic, manganese and that, meaning, it is actually colleagues, what you should have said, not only boast with one part, don't forget that the total of it does what all one city actually does, Vinkovci was actually in that time in his reports. In this way all the problems are solved by the public money that we just move somewhere and patch up the holes and then we needed to stand which goal, which is the purpose of all this, is not written, should be written, that we go to cover the losses, the ones we actually politically approve of. I touched the water line and definitely that an analysis of the efficiency that has shown and implemented actually previous recommendations shows that this is a sector that has huge problems. From the loss, from the messy business, all you touch there is the problem. So, the problem is that we need to take seriously, I think that the minister must read this reading very well and hastily make changes that will help to improve. Local self-government. Just to see what reactions they were when they came out from 2017, the two municipalities were a declaration, in fact they had an unfavourable opinion, really, when you have an unfavourable opinion as a local self-government, it really has to be a series of problems, so for Kloštar Podravski it means in the municipality of 3300 inhabitants, the chief of 12 and a half thousand kuna has a net salary, it's a prime salary, for such a one municipality better be the head of such a smaller municipality, than to come here fellow representatives, so that they call us every day and take our heads off for every little thing. Like this, you get down to the lowest level and there, but then it happens that you've paid more pay than it actually belongs to. The chief paid himself, the state audit wrote back for funds to the municipality's budget, and I didn't find out if we had a chance to see that one chief, the more he paid back to his municipality. He'd be a hero, he'd really be a hero who'd do it and say, "People I made a mistake." No, this is how we listen, it was a little social-democratic party, but we're doing the same thing, but you can't call us because you did it yourself. We can't actually agree on one side and the other, who's there now who's right to object. Because it seems to me that it's consensual, so don't touch us, and neither will we call you. For example. No contributions have been paid in the municipality of Kloštar Podravski. So, gross donations were paid, but they weren't contributions. Tax evasion. Imagine the fact that he shows up to anyone, personally from us, if we had kept one of us from tax, what would it be? You'd be lynched. So I'm just saying 50 thousand kunas would have been paid, compensation, councilman, deputy chief, but taxes didn't have to be paid. A little check-in and finally the chief says no, that's the state's audit she's after me. So he said four municipalities, four units of local self-government, as far as I've seen, according to all the same methodology that works, determined for all, in the same way, he's the only one who thinks he's been pressured. But I haven't seen a state audit go to someone without arguments to call or give an unfavourable opinion. What has more examples, in general, comes to the wages of local self-government, more than that censorship than the 20% base, but there's one good rarity about Lečevica, about the storage of waste that should be happening there, there's a lot of talk, and there's a lot of thinking about when this center will be in operation, and when we look at the municipality, the municipality has its own municipal plant and has a working manager in it, but it doesn't deal with municipal affairs. So, he's got employees, he's got communal drive, he's got an employee there, he's just not doing the communal activity, he's just paying others, he's probably paying for it, he's probably doing it to be a form of fulfillment, fortunately, so he'll be a dump near them, and then he'll probably be able to do it with one person. Health problems, I think that health care and this data that show early cancer here, 35 health institutions have shown 700 million kuna loss or less income from who they are and whether they are creating loss or less get from HZZO, it's very difficult to figure out, some are calling for HZZO to pay more, HZZO to provide services above what the HZZO approves, it's the only thing that is not evident, what shows that most health institutions have huge problems. If we could just look at something that would belong under the so-called. The project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, Vukovar, Vinkovci, Virovitica, Požega, Slavonski Brod, KBC Osijek, if we could just add it up, we can see that most of the losses are there. Vukovar, the Veteran Hospital, which over 100 million kuna, which however much of the HDZ colleagues may have pissed off at the expense of the SDP, the SDP has made a bigger step and has resolved much greater losses and have done something, this is actually an expectation, the entire structure of providing health services, the provision of services to these health institutions is being broken down, the local economy is already repeating this many times, but the fact is that it is not taking place. Which means that one Vukovar hospital has over 100 million kunas in losses, which means that it has about that many annual incomes. Imagine, too, one company that can handle it. We have for KBC Osijek 300 million kunas, over 300 million kunas, and in addition, the counties that now need to manage the same practice continues, and this is the procurement of drugs and other repromatives without public procurement. The key point of whatever years you look at, the findings where there have been in hospitals, public procurement, public procurement, public procurement, the law of 2017 can be changed, public procurement can be defined as they want, not only for medicines, but also for a number of other services, it may seem to be a million within it, not much, but for whatever it is, but when we look at the supply of medicines where 20 million kunas are spoken of in one hospital without public procurement, let alone without the combined public procurement, which hospitals within the health system could do, then we see that the state audit is perfectly right and is just emphasising what is the key problem of our health, not doctors, are not patients, but is actually a policy of governance, we don't know which is worse, when the state manages it when the county manages. Even here, it would look at two points, HRT again public procurement, without the prescribed procedures, was obtained for 7 million kunas, without VAT, added VAT almost 10 million kunas without prescribed public procurement procedures, of which, imagine, 5 million kunas were given to explore ratings, so it's important that they directly select the one who is going to make a survey of ratings, imagine that they have published a public call, so someone who would actually do it, maybe now what the journalists themselves have turned around, proved to be right through that kind of finding. The operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, what for 2000, actually in this find is indicated, here we now have confirmation, the more we say about it, much more work, fellow Bulj will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130972	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130973	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, the respected state auditor with his associates, so this document as well as every year that you give us through the report is essentially a descriptive picture and state as it is in our institutions, units of local self-government, what are indicators of the users of the state budget and you give the relevant ones, on good samples you provide relevant information that should be essentially something that will be a solution in the future. However, I will mention again, as regards Croatian shipbuilding, from 2013, 2014, 2015. 2016, In 2017, every year the state audit is in its report, and you can confirm this, it emphasized that Croatian shipbuilding is being spent unintentionally, which the state gives to shipyards. From year to year, we've always said the same thing, and what happened? Baloney cracks. Then what is the purpose, then, if the purpose of the state audit is to say and indicate, to direct the competent institutions of the DORH and others in charge, they have instructed, no one has done anything. The government had those documents in front of it. So, the money for shipbuilding in billions, in Brodosplit and other shipyards is not spent on shipbuilding and that is state-owned, so the use of illegal money has been spent and for years the state audit has indicated, however, both the Croatian government and other institutions have not protected Croatian shipbuilding, but the interests of owners who did not, therefore, invest in this money. We see here, that you are I will also look back at health care, you are here and hospitals, and other institutions, however, you are not, for example. Home to Health, and I will tell you home to health in Split Dalmatian County. Home of Health Split Dalmatian County, which is... In 2002, the largest home of health, because it's unique, 13 former homes, are now outposts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, in Cetitska finale, 50,000 inhabitants, by number larger than Lika Senjska, larger than the area of Međimurska, there is no radiologist, specialist. We stayed on 1 pediatrician instead of 4, because in the last 10 years all the money that has been invested, decentralised in the Split Dalmatian County, while he was the Mayor of Sanader Ante, Ževrnja, all the mayors, now Boban, that money is not invested in specialization and today our parents, when they come with their children, come across closed doors in their homes of health, in my Sinj, 50,000 residents have one radiologist because the other has become ill, I expect that he will recover. Instead of 4 networks of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, says 4 pediatricians specialists, we have 1. And the kids, the parents with the kids, are going to the ambulance, and we don't have enough teams here, so the ambulance is even bigger, it gets a load, more secure, and I can't handle my jobs. At the door in Sinj, it says report to the Split pediatrician. So that man from Tijarica, from the Trilla municipality, therefore, Mayor Šipic from Vrlika, 150 km with his child, who is sick, who is dependent on life, does not let God repeat the Metkovic case, has to go to Split to wait for the ranks. We don't have pediatricians in health homes, we don't have radiologists, we don't have doctors, that's the area of 2/3 of Croatia. We're talking hospitals here, yes, the hospital in Knin, which has Croatian pride, is called the General Hospital Veteran, which should have for physical therapy to have bases. I'm giving the amendment here 5 million kunas to get rid of, that the Dalmatian Zagora has one hospital, for veterans, and of course other citizens, the general hospital, you don't want to, and why don't you? And now with the election,... tours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You will now see the arrivals in the flat wheels both in the hinterland of Šibenik and in Knin, you will see how many projects are spoken, we do not literally have these ends of the pediatrician, and we call for birth, for survival, and we have no place to take the children to the pediatrician. So it's in the Dalmatian Zagora, all of it, and that's the problem, which is that the decentralised money didn't invest where it was supposed to be invested, in specialists in specialists, but invested, who knows where and who knows di.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130974	Thank you. Now let's go to the SDP Representatives' Club debate, dear colleague Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130975	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable State Auditor with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2018 provides a summary review of the financial audits carried out, and includes financial reports and business of entities at national and local level, means the audit of the implementation of the state budget and of the users of the state budget, audit of local units, audit of health institutions, non-profit organisations, of which the Red Cross company is particularly isolated, and audits of political parties, independent representatives of local unit representatives. In the case of new standards in the financial audit, 2 opinions have been drawn up, one is for financial reports and the other is for business coherence. As regards efficiency audits in 2018, the following topics are covered, the allocation and use of current donations from the budget of local individuals, capital investment in primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia, the use of external services in commercial societies owned by the Republic of Croatia and local units, and implementation of operational implementation, competitiveness of cohesion 2014-2020. So now only briefly, means a review by these groups of reports and, in fact, what to conclude, means, with the revision of the annual reports on the implementation of the state budget, the Republic of Croatia, for 2017, has been audited by 23 users of the state budget, means all ministries and 3 institutions, in the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, 2017. ... the conditional opinion, and on the financial reports, of the State budget for 2017, 15 unconditional and 8 conditional opinions are thus similar and related to compliance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The audit identified certain irregularities in... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is primarily the case here, and it is a pain, which the SDP government had, and which now has the HDZ government when planning funds, withdrawing money from EU funds, all of the ministers normally have very acidic plans, setting very high criteria and it is positive and there we see nothing problematic. However, later on, the problem is with these implementations, these plans, and later on, every year somewhere in the 10th, 11th month, there must be rebalancing and then there are excellent political crackdowns, whether certain funds have been created, withdrawn from the EU funds or not, whether some administration, whether some administration has succeeded in withdrawing any better funds or not, but in my opinion, it is going from a completely wrong perspective, an unrelated government managed by the SDP or the HDZ government, an administration that pulls the EU funds to be independent. So unbound who the minister is, unrelated to who the minister is, whether Minister Žalac, whether he is Greek or whether he is a third or 5 minister because they are actually paid to work on projects and unrelated to who their ministers are, unrelated to who is on the government, and therefore some specific decisions have been made here to increase their salaries, that they should be specially trained, that they should be specially trained, means unrelated, whether the government is functioning or not. You've had a situation in European countries, where certain governments couldn't put together a government for up to and including a year, and their administrations have withdrawn eu funds neatly, eu funds, implemented certain programmes, and I think it's a standard that we should adopt here to talk in such a way, and not unfortunately that every time we're fighting whether someone is more successful, it's not more successful, and that applies, we're actually bound to the political field. And ultimately, it has nothing to do with politics but it has to do with the strength of the Croatian administration, those people who work there, who work independently which is the minister to withdraw in this way. I think that would be much more correct and then the State Audit report on certain plans, certain programmes could give more positive opinions and not as every year is actually about problems, planning, implementation of a specific programme. And unfortunately everything is about politics. And that part where we're talking, regardless of what we're talking about withdrawing eu funds, I think we're unique here, we're not left, right, and middle, so everyone has to work that administration unbound who runs the state that their main task is to withdraw as much money from the eu funds and then we wouldn't have that kind of problem with the implementation of the plans. Because even the biggest problems of what the state's audit actually points to in planning to implement the plan are to be linked to eu funds. Most, all the other ministries are within some certain gauge plans and here were actually talking about the health system. Is it also these two systems, so we know pension and health systems that we generate certain deficits every year, that the health system especially draws HZZO out of the treasury that it now works independently and that they actually lack several billion kunas each year to carry out their obligations. And as counterpart Panenic said, there is always a question of whether they are at a loss or a certain part of the price, services that they can offer to a Croatian citizen, whether there are doctors, their receipts, material costs, medicines, etc., which is the minimum part where they can actually deliver that service, a service to a Croatian citizen. And we know that there is always a certain imbalance between the prices of these services that they can deliver at market price to Croatian citizens and what can actually be paid from our system, the HZZO system which is now around 23.24 billion kuna. Now the question is whether the overall health system probably costs between 26 billion and 27 billion kuna a year. This is actually the very report on the state audit, when it was audited by the health care institution the office carried out a financial audit of 49 health institutions of 12 clinical institutions, 20 general hospitals, 15 specialised hospitals and two polyclinics. Financial accounts for 2016 are covered. The financial reports and business of health institutions express 10 unconditional and 39 conditional opinions. Here they are, most likely re-connecting to these debts that have appeared in their business. That's where the debt is listed somewhere from 2.6 billion kuna. But we see on the other hand that certain health institutions have tried to do some rationalization. The report also states that, in order to rationalise the business of a particular health institution, certain activities were taken, however, not sufficient to significantly reduce obligations. Joint procurement procedures did not give the expected results and financial savings,... technical preconditions for the timely and effective implementation of public procurement procedures have not been provided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For goods and services which were not the subject of joint procurement, part of health services did not carry out the prescribed public procurement procedures but was delivered directly to the supplier. So here we see in fact that certain health institutions are aware that there are certain, have a lack of certain financial resources, that they have been trying to do some rationalizations, that these rationalizations have not given certain effects. However, what is the fact is that it is unrelated that the financial situation of a health institution is because it is not great anywhere in European countries that it is also a quality, that it is not reflected in the quality of health services. So as unhappy as we can be on the one hand when we talk in general about these kind of minuses in the health system on the other hand, we have a positive part of the health system that it is still unrelated to these negatives that they accumulate to deliver health care to Croatian citizens as they can in fact under these conditions in which they operate. And we know that and now there is pressure on the health system, opening up on the European market, our doctors are today, inviting them to European countries and they are very light today regardless of their... It should have been a better status for them to go to other countries very easily today and then we have problems later, we have problems that can also be manifested in the quality of health services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The office also carried out a financial audit of 71 local units of 11 cities of 60 municipalities covered by financial reporting operations for 2017. And there's when you see your local units worse than the ministries or the state budget. You've seen much higher, higher-quality reports there, which the ministries as institutions say very unrelated as if it were a minister or not, means that as an administration, they still carry out these tasks according to the opinions of the Audit Office positively. There must be problems here because we see that we have 35 unconditional and 34 conditional opinions here, that they are somewhere at 50-50 about the quality of their reports. And what is the fact that not only about financial descriptors, but maybe we have to go with some and other methods, because the audit is very high, there's a lot of pressure, there's a little bit of personnel, they have this part, and as far as the misdeeds are concerned, and others, to pass on to other institutions. However, these things that appear to them, and which are constantly recorded, are of, for example, that: For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: And that the individual local units, the mass of funds for wages is higher than prescribed. We see that certain elemental, elemental problems arise in managing the business books of local units, but I say the problem is when it keeps repeating it. And here we are in amendments to the law on review, we have given a slightly greater authority to punish now not only this, not only to go through certain misdemeanor changes, but to actually, and if certain orders and recommendations are not, they do not correct that they can also be sanctioned or sanctioned, and that person in charge is in charge of leadership. We'll see if it reduces, reduce these bad, bad bookkeeping that's somewhere on the level, somewhere the recommendations haven't been made are at 30%. So it's not even a problem if someone finds out that you've actually made a mistake in thinking that this revision is always friendly with all those institutions that it approaches so that these institutions should look in a friendly way at someone to come to them, to help them figure out how and where they've made certain failures, but it's incomprehensible to me that this means more than five or six or seven years of such a certain recommendation and the orders that the state's audit has given to correct, that it's not, that it's not fixed. I say that again at the state level, and it actually works, and it's shown to these reports, but it works worse at the level of local administration, and I think we should go to some other not only methods of punishment for those local administration leaders but maybe even bigger, we've been thinking about something a little bit more important, for example. Fine. FINA was once an accounting service in the former state and I think that when FINA ran books, you remember better than me, when a FINA ran books, you were sure that those books were neat and that you couldn't carry out certain tasks unless you had money, funds in your accounts, and I don't know if maybe there was a way of thinking where to, to keep business books for local self-government that didn't have certain capacities and resources because you have to have professional staff over it so that it could be a financial institution. So FINA, which is a state, which could perform accounting services for the local community where they could and could achieve that local community of certain benefits, is we know that FINA has a good network, an infrastructure network on the ground, and on the other hand, that all transactions could be carried out much better and ultimately for people who in FINI who are actually engaged in accounting which is their basic activity, which actually they taught people in as an educational one center, so that they could help solve this problem very bad, not to say bad book-keeping at local community level. They have good infrastructure, FINA has good knowledge, they would be easier to communicate with, perhaps, the state's audit order, easier to communicate in such a way that the FINA would be more responsible to run certain, meaning it would have ways to, how these books are conducted and especially in some smaller places where you can find it very difficult to reach a quality accountant on the water of a certain business book, and we know that FINA has a good coverage network so that perhaps access to solving these problems that occur, because these are elemental things, the elemental things appear. And now we can't criminalize every elemental thing. That would be bad if we criminalized everything and they had to process it all through the DORH because then it was created so that no one in this state could run a business book. I think it's a good approach to turn to FINI, to take it upon ourselves, to have the state take it upon itself, to have that specific step towards local communities, to make certain cooperation, to FINI will be an additional source of income that they can, to be able to service that with the state office and they, to communicate and to make certain recommendations, and I think that this is one way of solving the problem that then the State Audit Office will not have to give a report in this way, then create some kind of, sort of, that there are at all levels that are actually some bad situation in Croatia, and that we're not actually offering solutions. Here, so The SDP club will accept this report and I think we should.../incomprehensible/... thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130976	Thank you, Mr. Lalovec. We'll continue with the representatives' clubs. Next is counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a fellow member.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130977	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, dear Secretary of State, I welcome the main state auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues, the 2018 report of the State Audit Office will support the HDZ Club. It is a well-designed, transparent report behind which the office's extremely quality work is assessed by the high assessment of the usefulness and quality of the user's report, but also by the audit entities. We have already heard that the State Audit Office in 2018 carried out 224 financial audits, 104 efficiency audits, 11 tasks and recommendations and 223 audits of financial reports. The new standards are reported, two opinions are expressed, one for financial reports and the other for compliance. I would now not repeat how much efficiency review has been made, as much in cities, municipalities, the Red Cross, as many unconditional, conditional and similar opinions as there have been, I would mention some things and talk about what we have to pay attention to. First of all, the State Audit Office is one of the few offices that completed all planned audits during the reporting period and submitted the reports to the Croatian Assembly, you can notice even 20 December, which means before the year is out. So today it is possible for us to discuss and discuss what was in 2018, and we know that we rarely talk about 2017 and earlier periods. At the same time, when it comes to financial resources, the year ended with more than 5 million kunas less spent than planned, it really deserves great commendation and to the chief state auditor, Mr. Klesic, all the employees, and I have to point out that it is interesting to see that there are over 80% of women here, so here's my card. This State Audit Office report, as well as previous reports, should be of paramount importance to all of us and the basis in which the law should be amended and what should be specified, in which way we can contribute both transparency and rationalisation of the business of all those entities that are under surveillance in 2018, so that I think that each of us should take a good look at at at least the segment that we want to talk about or criticize. This report should certainly be a guideline. The Office has carried out an audit of the annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2017. and financial audit of 23 users of the state budget. It's interesting, but also worrying that even 57% of total expenditure goes to pensions and health care. When we talk about these entities, it would be appropriate for them to have almost all unconditional opinions, certainly if there are irregularities regarding the recording of certain business events that we can somehow, have some more understanding, however, it is not good if it says that even the users of the state budget, I don't know, certain types of expenditure related to certain projects and activities are financed by means of other types of expenditure or that obligations under a powerful verdict or arbitration are not paid by individual entities within a time period, so that they require additional expenditure for tight interest, the costs of the executive procedure, etc. In local units, it has been observed that the mass of payment funds is greater than prescribed or e.g. the public activity is directly entrusted to legal and natural persons without the public tendering process carried out. Once again, the property records are not complete because no property has been settled or value data have been obtained. Surely, if it is a smaller municipality that is not even human enough to do all of this, it means that property legal transactions or there are not enough financial options to order a professional assessment from judicial assessors for the value of their assets, we should consider how to contribute to the fact that from some of our records or the IRS, or etc., it may provide them with that estimated value in order not to get a comment on the arrival of the Audit Office in their unit. It's very interesting, I would also look back at the revision of health institutions. It was found that at the end of 2016, they had significant commitments. In order to rationalise the business of a particular health institution, however, the activities undertaken were not sufficient to significantly reduce the obligations. Joint procurement procedures did not give the expected results and financial savings, in part because technical preconditions for the timely and effective implementation of the procurement procedure were not provided. For goods and services which were not the subject of joint procurement, part of health institutions did not carry out the prescribed procurement procedures, but was made directly from suppliers. Now, if it's agreed to be done by the ministry, then it can't be an observation that can remove the hospital. When we know that the expenditures and expenditures of supervised health institutions are almost 10% higher than their incomes, and 85% of hospital revenues get exactly from HZZO and 80% of them go to pay, medicine and medical supplies, then surely hospital directors and their board of directors cannot contribute to better and better quality work or more rationally without help and this HS, and of course, to the ministry's proposal. I just found it interesting to see it for example. 10 unconditional opinions, which means that hospitals and their professional services are doing everything in accordance with the law, but they still can't achieve a bar, as they would say, a positive zero, but they still do a minus. Here, all of us are tasked, especially with the rest of the ministry, to see how to help them finally get our hospitals, they're not expected to do business with the plus, but to produce a growing minus every year, that certainly can't be of interest to us. The Red Cross, however, has the biggest difference between income and expenditure, so at the end of 2017 there remained 12.8 million kuna, their donation revenues by 50% higher in 2017 than in previous years, whether and the reason why they have this size plus, however, those smaller companies which are also less and less professionally teamed up also had some gaps, and then surely should not pay compensation in excess of the contracted or for the works contracts do not add documentation on the time, type or quantity of work done. In the case of political parties, the office is of the opinion that the regulations need to regulate the elements of mutual agreements between political states, as well as the way in which the political party achieves revenue and the cost of election promotion in a special account for financing and electoral promotion prior to the conclusion of the agreement with other political parties or when it does not report its election list on its own. For these very reasons, we also have a new Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions and a referendum that will soon be on our benches, so here we are, and we all are asked to make all these remarks made by the Office of State Audit, to be incorporated into this new law. In terms of efficiency audits, they have shown that the allocation and benefits of donations from the budget of local units are being made and that, for example, No public call and tendering plan has been adopted. The funds in 2017 that were supervised are over 60 million kn larger than those monitored in 2016 now I don't know, maybe they're bigger units of local self-government, or it's actually a total of higher amounts. However, we see that the most resources go to sport, so cities over 66% of donation funds, stand out for sports as well as county, which are slightly less, but still the most for those same purposes. In the case of capital investments in primary and secondary schools, supply of goods, works and services, school founders and individual prices were different for the same purchases. Control of the implementation of state pedagogical standards is not provided and the total annual report and submitted to the government is not drawn up. Due to the different instructions of the ministry, the founders show in a different way the data on the number of buildings, on the basis of which the amount of decentralised capital investment funds is calculated, etc. It seems to me that most of these remarks, not the observations that the primary, or secondary school itself can solve, but as we can see, are more about the Ministry's instructions, about the supervision of implementation, the state pedagogical standards, which are again done by the ministry, the criteria for the schedule to be carried out by the ministry, so here, I believe that even after these reports, the ministry will do its part of the job, so that our primary and secondary schools would work in accordance with the law. It's interesting to see that, for example. in the use of external services in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and local units, the vision was made in 69 entities, only one company did not use external services purposely and economically, and significant improvements are needed. We often hear in this assembly how external services are used non-transparently, especially when it comes to those companies owned by a state or local units. We see that the real situation isn't like that, that only one society, out of 69, doesn't do it the way it should. Furthermore, in the implementation of operational programmes, competitiveness and cohesion in 2014-2020, it has been found that it is not enough for employees, and we often hear that new employees are employed, that we do not need a new number of employees, as well as that difficulties have been identified in the detention of employees, who are working to gain adequate knowledge and experience. The audit also found that, in the annual commitment plan for 2017, everything was done in accordance with the plan, which also notes that in this assembly we often hear that in 2017 the Ministry did not do what they promised. The implementation of the verification of the warrants and recommendations and the insight into the financial reports covered 258 entities and found that 448 recommendations were not implemented, and 28%, respectively. I believe that the new Law on the State Audit Office, which defines how all these recommendations are done, then, what are the sanctions, will help and will not happen to you, for example. The members of the local units' representative bodies did not carry out even 83% of the warrants. What should also be said is that since 1341 recommendations, as many as 42 are not applicable. I guess that's exactly what I've been talking about so far, that hospital management isn't the answer if something had to be done by the ministry, as well as the principal of the primary school, or, in high school, if it was meant by the founder or more honesty. It is also good that all the opinions proposed, as well as the reports on the audit carried out, are checked at a higher level, have more degrees of control. And due to all this, as well as the strategic plan adopted for 2018 and 2022, which sets out guidelines for work and improvement of work, and an action plan detailing the activities, deadlines and persons responsible for their implementation, as well as certain indicators of implementation, the HDZ Club, this report assesses extremely high quality and will maintain this report for 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130978	Thank you. I ask that we welcome the members and members of the Association of the Parents of the Dead Homeland War defenders from Slatina who have joined us, welcome. ... Next in front of the HDS, HSSL and HDSSB, is counterpart Branko Hrg, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. State auditor, the secretary of state is gone. Our Club will support the State Audit report, because in what has been presented to parliamentarians and what has already been seen from previous discussions, it is clear that the State Audit is well planned, that a complete plan has been drawn up and that there should be no objections in that part. State audits may need to be experienced not in the manner of the bodies sanctioned and the bodies required to punish, but the body serving to help those k9i are subject to control in the State Audit. What I'm not gonna say here a little bit bothers me, but what's a little bit in the eye is one piece of information that I pulled and about the control of local self-government, the unit of local self-government. So we know that the mandate in local self-government lasts for four years. I analyzed and compared back 3 years, so how many audits were in municipalities, in cities, counties were basically all covered at least once in the mandate but municipalities and cities did not. So in 4 years on average, 108 cities can be covered by a state audit. Of 127, it means 19 cities can in principle, on average, which audit works to pass that they are not covered at all in one term by the revision. It can even be caught, so to speak, by planning a revision, and probably auditing it and doing it that way. But the communities with these human resources that the audit has with the opportunities it has, realistically looking at this dynamic, are impossible to capture. If the average, if for 4 years, an average of 3 years can cover a total of 164 municipalities, 254 municipalities practically remain out of the state audit range for the entire term of office. And that's something that's realistically impossible to see with the potential and human capabilities that the audit has, so absolutely impossible to capture. Why am I apostrophe and noting this? So it's about smaller units of local self-government that don't have enough human resources in themselves to be able to do better and better by breaking the laws. And if they still fail to suggest, draw attention, detect shortcomings and irregularities, they may go the wrong way, eventually someone might get hurt before the law and not even often have any intention. I think that we should really seriously consider the possibilities of strengthening both financial and staff audit so that it can work significantly harder on the ground and in some way control but also help those local self-governments primarily not to speak now about all those institutions, companies owned by them. Because if we look at this data, it can happen that someone for four years is the mayor or mayor, that his audit doesn't come at all, that the mandate goes through, maybe in about five, six years, before the lack of those people who were there at that time, who may have made some irregularities, they're gone for real, they're gone. A particular problem still arises in the other part when local elections pass, comes a number of new people, people who may never have been in any system of local self-government or some public administration at all. It is certain that they are prone to making mistakes, especially how it works in local self-government, someone wins elections and thinks they actually got the opportunity to do what they want, especially in this part of the election. This is no criticism, this isn't any kind of hit on local self-government. So I'm just apostrophe of problems that are possible and that should somehow be prevented. I think it would be necessary in practice, somewhere in at least half the mandate to visit such local self-governments, point out some mistakes, irregularities, point them in the right direction that people can move on normally. And I've been head of local self-government for a long time, and every time the state audit came, there's always something that needs to be fixed. And from year to year, it was being repaired, getting to some level of normal and better. And that's exactly how I look at the state audit. Here's to this suggestion and this information that I believe is correct, I went to calculate it like this, and it's clear to me that you can't do it, that you're simply human beings too weak, that you're financially weak and that we're left with plenty of space that isn't covered and that's in some way exposed to possible irregularities, but I'm saying whether it's intentional or unintentional, the irregularity is an irregularity in the extreme case. Here, with these few suggestions, I repeat the HDS Club, HSLS and HDSSB supports the State Audit report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130980	Thank you. Next is counterpart Davor Vlaovic in front of the HSS Representatives' Club. Here's a colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130981	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Office of State Audit, I welcome all together on behalf of the HSS Club. And I must start by saying that the Office of State Audit and this report is a good tool for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and let us all see how public money is being spent because this report always lists all the main problems in financial indicators, when it comes to the business of the state bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, how they are harmonised and how the laws are implemented. And on the other hand, we need a tool, not only for us here in the Parliament, but also for the government to see where the main problems are and what laws should be changed and what services and other state bodies should be promoted to have one system that we want to build. What kind of system we see from a number of years following these reports is that the state audit has done its job well, that in the development strategy of this service and the action plan, well-detected problems, and in which direction it is necessary to act, that the service needs to be strengthened financially, that it should be financially strengthened, that it is operationally effective, that the criteria of the outposts are uniform and that it is in the function of further legitimate business and public spending money. In those financial indicators that we got, I was worried if we wanted to develop this service, then it's illogical for me to put this State Audit Office at 58.69 million kunas and spend only 54 million kunas. Why no funds were spent, even moreover, I was already here saying that the resources for the State Audit should also be increased so that the development of this service could be monitored right now, to implement the action plan we set out when we adopted these documents and it is good that the plan is for 2019. 60.8 million kunas which says that they really want to allocate more resources d allow employees to advance in the service, to enable them education and what is crucial, to enable them to increase their personal incomes because only in this way when you have adequately rewarded employees can you expect them to do their job in quality and here, I appeal that, as well as 60 million kunas, 60.8 spend in 2019 or if there is an opportunity to increase if needs are indicated. Next thing you know, we've always praised these reports, so I'm going to remind you that we've praised the reports of the former state's chief auditor. Krasic because it was clapping here and in public as she pointed out problems in law enforcement, concrete privatisation, and then here it turned out that we were clapping for nothing, or that it was just the tip of the ice santa, that she was colliding on the surface and that the main fish remained somewhere on the bottom because no one under these procedures was convicted, although some of the procedures before the state bodies and courts of the water but no one was condemned and what was most important for us, for the taxpayers, one kuna or at least as far as I have information, were not returned to the state budget. That's why I asked the replicas to the gentleman this morning that the office of those 35 procedures he had, this body of cooperation with other state judicial bodies, which are these proceedings, whether there are those among them and those who have already had a business against the law and whether these proceedings are at an end, is anyone convicted. I agree that the State Audit doesn't have that data, but it would be good if we, as parliamentarians, were given the letter myself, asked who were against whom the proceedings were being conducted, whether the proceedings had already been conducted against them and whether anyone had been convicted in view of the irregularities identified in the business and the spending of public money. It is also important here to point out that we have to change some laws, where we determine where the State Audit has identified frequent irregularities, the issue of still public procurement is mentioned here, because the fact on the ground is that, especially in public enterprises and also in units of local and regional self-government, a large part of public procurement is tried to subside under those small financial values, so it goes through a direct agreement without a transparent public tender, and usually it is a good thing to get domestic trades and businesses from that domicile area and thus keep jobs, it should be welcomed because it is the only tool where the municipal chief can help one of his craftsmen but the question is whether it is in accordance with the law, whether it is moral to other entrepreneurs and whether it is transparent spending public money. And I think that in this work, we still need to improve public procurement laws and especially what we see in health institutions that a large number of health institutions, the hospital has received conditional opinions, as many as 39 of them. I was already speaking here in the assembly that the rehabilitation of health institutions is not complete, that the burden remains, with most hospitals not settled debts and the burden shifts to founders, to counties and cities and the fact that they from their fiscal capacities cannot bear that burden or hospital from their regular business while they have the daily limits they have, to resuscitate those debts. More than 100 million kuna hospitals Brod and Nova Gradiška as an example cannot save so much from their operations that they will pay off all debts to suppliers and there is a real danger that any of the suppliers will be able to pay off from the giro accounts of these institutions, the founder will have to settle and we know that the counties mentioned especially in Brod-Posavina and other Slavonians do not have so much fiscal capacity that such obligations can be reconciled especially if KB Osijek is already mentioned here, over 300 million kuna I don't think the Osijek County can handle it either. Therefore, we need to find models and therefore this report is also good for the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance to find models on how to settle these debts so as not to put the problem and the health system and the regional self-government that is the founder of the judiciary. I would also mention here that a good part of the ministry in the report is mentioned that it does not always work in accordance with the law, especially when it comes to public procurement and when it comes to spending public money, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Tourism, and we are particularly interested in the HSS, and I have asked and I will repeat the question, in the last year, whether what the Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture, Mr Hogan, said in his reports, was paid less than 126m euros to our agricultural producers, than Minister Tolusic said in his reports. As possible, whether the revision has established these data, whether or not someone is going to have a serious debate and whether someone will be responsible for this because we see that our agricultural production is on the decline, that we have almost 10% less production in bovine animals, that it is in pigscaping that there is a decline in most war cultures and that, in general, agriculture and our family holding is in big problems, and instead of paying for some of the direct payments from the national component, we are not paying that part, and this part that comes from the EU Commission through the implementation of the common agricultural policy, Mr... argues that 126m euros is less paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here, I'd like to discuss it and determine if that's what we've been saying here, and yet, in part, almost 43% of the total damage from the elementary disasters is just from agriculture and through agriculture is reported where some 450 million kn, how much damage has been reported, the Ministry of Finance has approved for the payment of 19.5 million kuna, and of that there are reports from 13 counties. And Virovitica-Podravska County was paid 11.083 million kuna. More Virovitica-Podravska than 12 counties together. By what criteria? What cultures have they suffered? Which agricultural producers, that they really suffered so much damage and that it took them so much compensation, and let's say, in Brod-Posavia, Osijek-Baranja or Vukovar-Srijem, they got no such damage and that they got our agricultural producers somewhere out of 3-4% of the total damage reported and practically, what I said, is denied them the possibility and desire to report damage and that for a reason they were unsatisfactory because they were promised that they would be compensated for that damage, from elementary disasters, and unfortunately it is not happening and it is simple and this law is obvious that we have to change that approach too. I agree that they should secure their crops and plantations, but then they should also take care that insurance houses and shelves and these amounts do not rise to the sky because the fact that in the meantime the number of those who provide has increased, but they have also increased the insurance policy prices as here, just talks about the fact that we are not spending our clear money transparently again and we are not spending effectively. Regarding investment in capital, we have a number of projects that will certainly raise the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and create assumptions for the development of the economy, but what is present in all media these days, which is that so far more than 31 billion kuna has been invested in shipbuilding in Croatia and that today, we still do not have a solution for Uljannik and 3. May. That today, nearly 2,000 employees there have not been paid and that because the government and the resolution ministry do not dare decide whether bankruptcy will or will go into reconstruction or restructuring. These people just don't know what tomorrow. Simply, such an approach to inaction, not making a decision is not the right economic approach, is not a transparent spending of money, is not an effective spending of money, and on the other hand, the question is where the 31 billion kuna has been invested so far. Whether it's all spent on purpose or not and whether it's anyone's answer to it or whether it's anyone's answer to it. So here I am asking all of us, what do you think 31 billion kuna is invested in Djuro Djakovic in Slavonski Brod, in Vupik in Vukovar or in some company in Vinkovci. How many jobs would that be in Slavonia? And only from Djura Djakovic, which is why I mention him, is why over 10,000 people left, jobless, jobless, and no one responded. Well, here's the time to react, to make a decision about the Oil, to finally get these people paid, to know where they are, and on the other hand, to ask that through the Institute of State Audit and their findings, and also through other state bodies, to determine how these funds were spent, who gave guarantees, who controlled how these funds were spent, and did anyone control them? Turns out no one was in control, no one cared, and obviously we don't need jobs in Croatia. Obviously, we want to be out of Croatia somewhere. Now, it's not good, and we need to change that approach, and the government must finally make decisions, and it cannot hide behind some other bodies or some other investors, because it is up to the government and the resolution ministry to make a decision, and here, this finding, the report on the work of the State Audit Office, we will accept it because it gives itself enough arguments for what I've been saying and that it gives sufficient arguments to say that the government is not doing its job and that it has to change the approach and way of working for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130982	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives Stanka Work and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, counterpart Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130983	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I read, normally, this report, and I came up with these evaluations by the Parliament's parent board, which compared this report with the average usefulness assessment 4.22, quality 4.28, and the audit entities themselves were the average score of 4.81. So great. According to these grades, we can raise our hands immediately, we accept this report. However, I understand that this report is not just technical. This report at least speaks of a state audit. It refers to the users of the taxpayers' funds of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm really worried that the government's representative isn't here. Because I wanted to hear as Parliament's representative what the Government has proposed, and he wants us to accept this report and he wants to take it into realisation so this doesn't happen again? For example, here, for operational competitiveness and cohesion programmes in 2014-2020, I will not read the figures, but the revision says, compared to 15 EU Member States, the Republic of Croatia is using funds below the average, i.e. according to the information on the contracted funds is in the third category of users, and according to the information on the appropriations, in the last four categories, i.e. among the least successful users. Normally, it refers to the observed period. On the basis of the audit of the facts identified, it was assessed that the implementation of the Competitiveness and Cohesion Operational Programme in 2014-2020 was partially effective by the end of 2017 and significant improvements were needed. So the State Review can only determine the situation. But there's nothing he can do to improve that condition, nothing. Now I want to know who's obliged to propose and how and when that situation will change. That's the question, that's the purpose of the report. So it's not just a technical question to raise our hand, the state's audit office, carry out our task, file a report thing over and usually, in many situations, it ends. And that's the whole problem and that's the whole problem. Last year we discussed, too, the report, the assessments of the same excellent, excellent, we adopt reports, but the results, in the end line, we don't see much. Let's just say one of the results, a report is delivered to the State's Attorney's office, we haven't seen a reaction from the state's attorney's office, and neither does the State's audit, at least I think. You don't even have the information, whether the State's Attorney's office has taken any kind of action and that's the problem. And that's why we keep repeating this, now we've passed a new Law on the State Office for Audit, I hope that given this obligation, the adoption of an implementation program, etc. as well as those criminal provisions, that the situation will at least change in that part, in relation to the state audit. And this, too, should be done by the government, the ministries, the judicial authorities, the local units of local and regional self-government, actually on the basis of this report, doing business normally, doing business normally. As far as the State Audit Office itself is concerned, as I understand it, that's to say, the income and expenditure plan and I'm against it and I wouldn't compliment you at all for saving 5 million kn, it would have been a herb if you'd given in training, training employees. For me, that savings is nothing special. But what concerns me, it's just to find, I apologize to the employees, it's chapter 9, I'm certainly not going to ask you, the respected chief state auditors to tell me about employees' salaries, but in relation to the structure, relative to the age structure, so in the education and age structure, I'm expressing fear, very openly, and it's up to you that it's with the government or I don't know who you're dealing with anymore, that you won't be able to rephrase the audit. You won't be able to, it's my fear. Is that up to the height of the salary, is it because of the calculations, it's probably the salary, probably, but you don't, you don't have 40 state auditors, you lack it in your report, and that's why you can't even get there, this is what a colleague of Hrg is saying in all local self-government and regional, you can't, you don't have people. So, according to this data, look, you have age structure, 60 years and over, 16.3 out of 50-59. 33% out of 40-49 years, 24.7% and let's now say that it's below 40, that it's a spring, that it's supposed to wear, tomorrow the State Audit, it's a little quiet. It's a little quiet. And so I think you're going to have to do something about it, not you, but the government, of course, you're really the constitutional category. You are a constitutional category, an institution that has a constitutional category, and you have to take care of it because our average age is, unfortunately, 47.7 years. They are mature years, but it's average, it's average, that ladies don't get offended, normally, I'm not talking about your age. And 148 employees or almost 50% have more than 50 years or more. That's me through that I see a problem, the State Audit Office tomorrow. With all the improvements that we can achieve in business, according to your orders, instructions and remarks, someone has to follow them and can only be followed by an authorised state auditor. And the third thing I wanted to draw your attention to, in relation to the State Office for Auditing, is the cost of perfecting, education, if I'm not mistaken, I can't find it right now, somewhere around 300 kn per person, it seems to me according to the report, it's sorry, embarrassingly little, it's embarrassingly small, and you have a 5 million kuna savings, it goes to your burden not to be angry. I understand this well in the budget division, I understand it all, but it's really if we want state auditors who are educated, not only with experience but with constant training then these funds are very small. However, in any case, the club will accept this report by considering that it is not just a technical matter but that the Government and other institutions should act in accordance with this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130984	Following on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club is counterpart Tomislav Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130985	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state auditors with associates, more specifically co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to say in a brief discussion what I think is important and related to the report on the work of the State Audit for 2018. It is good that in 2018, here is an opportunity sometimes to talk about 2017, is it when we talk about reports? So this report is if we can so vividly call it a roof report because it includes all the reports that we've already had, once we've had the opportunity to discuss some in the assembly, and let's suppose they'll come to the debate as much as I've noticed. It wasn't, at least I didn't, I don't remember the case that the report came here, and most or almost all the MPs didn't commend those reports and it's about one institution doing its job well. I'm not saying this because you're here now, but it's in line with what the predecessor said, so with limited human capacity, with limited pay levels, with so much emphasis on the expertise of people doing this complex job, because in order for you to control someone by nature you need to know more and better than he does and in line with all the problems you have in your daily work, you're doing a very good job and your job is ultimately shown in this report, he gives to society, and above all those responsible for running this society, useful indicators that you should do. However, we in the Republic of Croatia have another problem, we have a bad relationship with the institutions, we do not respect the institutions of this country ourselves, and above all I mean the Government. This is evident not only in the work of this government, there have been previous governments in relation to this institution, which is the Croatian Parliament and then to all other institutions. What I should also point out is that when we talk about the audit and the State Audit Office on this business that it deals with, the State Audit Office is an expert body, it gives no political evaluations, it is neither in any part nor can it be politicised. However, those who give political evaluations are members of the executive authority and, if they do not like it, they are able to declare such professional things as political persecution or something that usurps their god-given powers. So we can see that in the review report when we talk about units of local self-government, and even the state budget, the ministries, we see that there are significant deviations and there are often mentions of the concept of public procurement, and there is a major or should I say the weight of failure because there are 40 billion kuna public procurement through the Republic of Croatia, and then every percentage that goes the wrong way is bad for the Republic of Croatia. It has already been said that extremely professional people, underpaid and a small number of them, and in my opinion in the Republic of Croatia could strengthen two institutions, it is the Tax Administration and so all that the Tax Administration controls, primarily the flow of taxpayers' money towards the budget, it is one direction and a state audit that controls this other direction of leaving money from the budget to the users and even there is not a job, but also from the users according to further budget users. And we see in the report that the revision even in this limited section controls this return of money into the budget, so that tax, pardon, so that the state audit really has one broad range of work, because in its reports regularly and stress that not all possibilities have been used to collect claims that are, which need to be filled in by public budgets. Therefore, the state audit is doing its job, but the problem is that those who should have these recommendations or those tips of state audit use do not stick to it. And with this about me, the article 10th law here, which we adopted here in the Croatian Parliament, is problematic. In one reply to the replica, the state auditor is and explains this to the representative. Article 10 says that the State Audit Office is not responsible for giving instructions and opinions to the audit entity regarding the conduct of operations under its jurisdiction outside the audit procedure. If I had the opportunity, unfortunately I didn't have it, if I could have the opportunity, if I could influence government decisions then I'd definitely change this article into a state audit should hire more professional people precisely for what Mr. Varga, Varda tells us, people are leaving us, professional people are leaving us, we need to hire them because in this country if you come to any institution to ask me, especially entrepreneurs, what they have to do or what they should do to make their job go well, they'll mostly get 10 answers, 9 which I can't do just 1 maybe what I can do. Someone needs to give advice to entrepreneurs, and I think a state audit is exactly the place where I can get reliable information about what is necessary in order to do business in accordance with the law. I'm not saying, of course, right now this, this notion I'm spreading, it's not just a state audit business, it's also a general audit business, but I think that one such institution can build itself that it's not happening to us now that the State Inspectorate that we're re-forming, which will again be a huge state apparatus that serves above all, although the amendments to the law is a little tempered, serves primarily the repression, it's not good, it could, here, institutions like the State Audit, do it better because it's happening to us that an entrepreneur who hasn't charged the price of photocopying a 0.50 kn document to write to him to undermine the legal system and the financial system of the Republic, it says in the finding of the state inspector. Such things should not be done to entrepreneurs because they always need to find a measure between what we want to achieve and how we want to do so. An important part of this report, and we had a special report on which we discussed, is what we should all be worried about, it is the withdrawal of funds from EU funds, there is a State Audit right to warn that even those projects that have started are not really well prepared, and they, too, are planned to postpone implementation and even mention that last year since 2023 for project implementation, and what is particularly worrying that the remaining costs of 93.2% are planned for them, and to pay 7.5 billion euros for end-users or 93.8% of the available funds. Compared to 15 EU Member States, the Republic of Croatia is using funds below the average and according to the information on the contracted assets and in the third category of users, and according to the data it is granted in the last fourth category. The Republic of Croatia has 555 or 556 units of local self-government, of course, the State Audit Office cannot cover every year and what they should be congratulated on, all these units of local self-government should, if not already, if the minister has said that only from the next term will there be a reform of territorial reconstruction. If he doesn't want anything reformed that way, then at least he needs to be put into office and it would be good, here, for the local elections to be the find of the State Audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130986	Thank you, too. Let's welcome both students and students of Juraj Dobrila High School of Education from Pazin and their teachers. Welcome! ... We can continue, therefore, with debates on behalf of the club of representatives, following on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA, colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please welcome colleague Sincic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130987	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, today we have an annual report from the State Audit Office and since I've been here since 2016. I listen to these reports regularly, and it's mostly full of praise, yes, great problem detection, excellent paper combing, financial reports, but at the end of it all, I can't help thinking that it all comes down to that old effort for your players, yes, definitely the State Review is one of the better Croatian institutions, if not the best Croatian institution in the expertise of doing its job, but what after that? There were a whole series of cases where the State Audit detected exactly where the problems, however, other institutions that were to be linked to these findings, had not done anything to date, so I would like to refer to one such report, the report refers to the revision of the implementation of the state budget. In that report from 26 pages, p. 2. stands, the State Audit Office draws attention to the point. 3. find describing the facts relating to costs of shipbuilding restructuring subsidies, this is in the introduction. Now if we go on to see what's wrong, which is wrong with the budget money that went to the shipyards, we get to the str. The 19th section of the 3rd and above states that the Agreements on the Transfer of Shares therefore states that, other than the purchase of shares, the restructuring programmes for the shipyard should be attached. According to a report by Croatia's Jadranbrod Shipyard, which is a body authorised to review the restructuring programme. According to the Croatian shipbuilding report Jadranbrod, significant deviations from the contracts established on the realisation of the sale and transfer of shares of Brodogradina and the Split d.d. industry. from Split, we're talking about Brodosplit. From 2012 to 2017, in those 5 years, the restructuring subsidy amounting to €503 million, €503 million, €503 million was paid by the state to Brodosplit. According to the report by Jadranbroda, the shipbuilding site received does not benefit from the dedicated, okay, it was found that the money was not used for purpose, Mr Debeljak spent all that money lively, just not on what was agreed, which is prescribed and what was agreed, does not make his own contribution to the costs of restructuring. What does that mean? That means he was supposed to give 2.4 billion kunas of his money in that story, and he didn't give anything and nothing to anyone. Furthermore, there is not enough employment capacity with jobs for which the financial structure is secured, so there is no number of employees that are contracted and nothing that would provide a positive financial result, and has deviated from organisational and staff restructuring provided for by the restructuring programme and contract and nothing. Something to a lesser extent is the situation for three. May described in the chapter below, but fortunately, of some 842 million kunas that they were to be given, they are as much as 728. It's kind of like, 80-90% indicative speaking, unlike.../incomprehensible/... we have zero. ... but zero. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A huge discrepancy, me, and this kind of administrative style in writing, seems in the state audit report that every year, of course, works to audit the implementation of the state budget, and so on for all these years before I mentioned it. And the story is happening more or less over and over again. Then it goes on. To decide on state subsidies for shipbuilding restructuring, the EU committee is responsible. And the party in the process before the EU Commission is primarily the Republic of Croatia which has committed itself to implementing the restructuring programme. Maybe in this country everything's being understood indicatively, casually, somehow we'll make a deal. But what you signed, that should stick to. The EU Commission is responsible for ordering the Republic of Croatia to request the shipbuilding site to recover the subsidy granted in full or in part if the restructuring programme is not implemented. And we saw that it wasn't spent. And of course, the next paragraph. Boldano, a black letter, given the reports by Jadranbrod, which has been designated for monitoring and reporting, etc., the State Audit Office is of the opinion that there is a risk that the EU Commission is at risk in line with the added restructuring and fulfilment programme of the conditions agreed with the EU requires the Republic of Croatia to request the shipbuilding site to recover the subsidies given. Which would have negative consequences for the Republic of Croatia's economy. It's not enough that the Oilies' guarantees have slowly thrown us into recession, it's also threatened us with this kind of danger over our heads. And then finally, there, at the very end of 25, 26 pages stands. So, with regard to all these subsidies, the Ministry of Economy has ordered the other Ministry of Finance to carry out budgetary surveillance of the shipyard in Split and then they say, yes, we did, we did. The report was drawn up which did not establish that State aid funds were used in a non-intentional manner. In other words, the Ministry of Finance said, here, it's all right, the State Audit Office got a little confused, they don't know what they're saying, they don't know what they've read, they can't interpret it. It's all right, let's move on to business assual. I guess that's only possible in the Republic. I personally believe the findings of the State Audit Office. I believed it before I went to those shipyards. And I'm particularly convinced of those findings after I owned the shipyards. They are written in administrative style, there are not many numbers, but behind them is a painful truth about what was happening. So specifically for this unfortunate Brodosplit, there's been a huge waste of workers. They tell me everyone who could have gone somewhere has gone. In most BiH workers, it is questionable in what conditions they work or do not work, with what rights, whether they are registered or not, it is something for some other institutions. The company of only 100 million kunas is a shipbuilding business that has never done so, has nothing to do with it, and which should be invested, so 24 times more than it's worth in the next 5 years. From where? Out of nowhere, that's why it's not a day's money. It was supposed to be done under the contract of 14 ships in 27 months from the large shipbuilding sector. There's not a single number made. It's not a matchbook ship, it can't hide it. Serious world companies even have their own registers, the World Flight Register. Ships can be found, but those ships are gone. And despite the fact that from year to year, the state audit has detected problems and has written to you for years, unintendedly, doesn't give money, no frames, like this, like that. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministers of Economy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministers of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the Republic of Croatia, the Year of Oreshkovic's Government, and two years of the Plenkovic Government, ignored it all, worked on their own, and so, little by little, we came to the abnormal results that Croatian shipbuilding was located near the point of no return, perhaps already passed. And worst of all, these days it's just Brodosplit, led by Mr. Fatso, mentioned, as well, the main partner and perhaps the savior of the Uljanika Shipyard. For God's sakes, if we give our colleagues and colleagues, team and such people to take over Croatian shipbuilding and from Uljanik, the company that stands far the best of all Croatian shipyards, in a few years we will have old screws and screws. Does this have to happen to us in order to begin to believe in such findings? I personally don't need it, it's enough for me to read from people I trust and see in the field what the situation is and see and conclude that it's a missed and wrong policy. There's a lot more to be said about shipbuilding, here, not giving me time. I'm going to other issues related to the work of the state audit. Recently, we had here, therefore, the Law on State Audit, which changed the way it worked, before the law came itself to the inquiry, that is, the parliamentary question to the main state auditor, Mr. Klesic, on how the status of the CNB changes by changing that law. And I quoted it and read it here and at that debate and despite what it did. 54. The constitution says that the State Audit Office is the roof, main audit institution, that there is no other above it in this law, it has been demoted. She was dumped on the floor, and in private audits, by the choice of Mr. Governor, it was given to choose for themselves who will and what will revise and to what extent, and then what they do not like, which is what the State Audit Office will do. Like the 13th pig, as the last hole in the play we have thus demoted these people and this institution. That's why I'm asking for a constitutional assessment. Some Constitutional Court, which is a political court, may be us and the chief critics of that court, but we have no other court. I would personally send a stronger court, more competent, but I don't have anything but a constitutional one, so we're going to send a constitutional assessment of whether it's in accordance with the Constitution. I personally consider it absolutely not by my political court. Furthermore, it is further stated that the fourth chapter of that law is introduced which previously did not exist and which gives special status to the CNB, so all other audit entities that are also listed in this proposal today have, operate according to one rule, only the CNB works under other rules. On the other hand, all entities have an obligation to manifest themselves while the CNB has the right and not the obligation. The CNB is not obliged to draw up a proposal for a plan to carry out the tasks and recommendations while all other audit entities have the obligation to do so. Thirdly, the CNB is not obliged to carry out those tasks and recommendations which are therefore objected to while all other audit entities have to do so and unless the following sanctions are done. Therefore, thank you, to all the members of the state, for the effort and for the work and for providing us with these reports. And then this debate comes up, and then we regularly listen to praises, all great, like this, and actually what happens is one ignoring, humiliating, degradation, it's personally unacceptable to me and incomprehensible. You also have reports from the State Audit Office from the time of Milanovic's government when Croatia's insurance was privatised. Read what the State Review on this privatisation said there. To this day where's her DORH, where's her Committee of Conflict of Interest? Anyone? There's no other episode, just the first one. So, don't be hypocritical and praise the findings and the whole work here, and then when it comes to doing something by these findings, then you give them up, then you send out whatever commissions of yours that make all the opposite conclusions. It's the humiliation of these people and their work, their lifelong experience and their institutions. I had to say it here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130988	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next is a colleague, Stjepan Curaj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. He's gone. That's what we're done with the debates. Here we are. He's in at the last minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130989	I thank the Vice President.../The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./... times and more things past, talking about importance, influence, I would just briefly refer to some data on compliance means in 2018, so we actually have what I would like to just clarify, very briefly 3 segments that we are looking at. So first of all, here's only true, so that the order doesn't confuse, so financial audit, efficiency review and conformity review. I think the financial audit primarily says whether all financial statements are in the most important definitions with the prescribed, financial reporting frameworks, so that's maybe what's the most sound and most important how money is spent, in which way, whether it's legal, whether it's legal and how it's managed by money for all of us, we're talking primarily about certain budgets. The performance review and it is guided by the principles of economic, efficiency and purpose, so there is, whether there is room for improvement, whether the criteria, meaning they are met and analysed, means whether they, whether units of local self-government, state or any institution in their own way, are effective in their work. And the revision of compliance, in fact, is where compliance with laws is seen, so a kind of review of legality, means whether it is in accordance with the relevant bases, i.e. regulations, and with which they should be managed in their work. Accordingly, 4 opinions are given, unconditionally said when the error rate is lower than 2%, in the financial reports of business, there are no more significant errors, conditional on more than 2% but errors, individually or jointly, do not have some pervasive real effect on the accuracy of financial reports and in the business to a lesser extent is not done in accordance with the lists, unfavourable where the error rate is higher, where it has much more impact and in a significant part is not done in accordance with the regulations. Of course, there's a restraint where there's not enough data. Now, when by those three categories, which we have reports, when we look at actual data, then we get in the table that almost 50% of all reports are conditional. It means each other, by the maltenes of every other indicator. When we talk about even financial reports for which the business has a financial report and a business report relating to health institutions, non-profit organisations, there are as many as 78% of conditional opinions, only three of which are unfavourable and 80. And when we talk about opinions like I said at the beginning, that's why I was talking about financial reports, which include state budgets and users of local units and political parties and independent representatives and members of representative bodies, then conditionally in financial reports we have 41% less than others and in the compliance of business 50%. So basically if all three of these were to add up by these criteria we almost, every other report gets a conditional opinion. What does that mean? Exactly what I was saying, there are certain gaps, which may not have largely had an effect on business or on financial reporting or on compliance but are there. And then when we actually ask the main question, when these opinions are given what they are doing, because in the last year, and the state audit has carried out 224 financial audits, 104 efficiency audits, 11 tests of the implementation of the warrants and recommendations, and 223 audits of the financial reports, and it has given 35 of these opinions to further conduct the DORH and the police. So, I'm sorry I didn't see from the left that, let me also welcome the state's chief auditor. So it's not a big number, but I'm sure what I'm worried about is how our leaders take it a little lightly. Therefore, it must be known that the irregularities identified from the audit must be forwarded to the competent authority for the purpose of committing any criminal or any other offence. So here's 30, and as far as I'm saying, 30 and 5 items passed on, we're going to see what kind of epilogue it's going to be, whether it's going to be elements of criminal responsibility or not or any other. But I'm sure it's kind of offended that way, we don't have that literal one, so let's just say the respect that the state's office should have for the review and the public maybe, and especially for those leaders. And to take these recommendations lightly into account, it's nice to get an unconditional opinion, what's good from the data that there were no unfavourable compliance of business and only two, code, in two local units self-government received an unfavourable rating. That's commendable, I mean I wish it wasn't so much. And now we're talking about what needs to be done, because here we're talking about the report and the work and the design work itself, the work plan of the state audit itself is certain that from the 200-th century, 299 in the Rules of Procedure if I'm not wrong last year, it's certainly a question and human capacities, opportunities because it comes to reviewing and business and financial and efficiency and all of this that is stated is not easy and easy work. And we, if you've seen that around 200 institutions are involved in all of these categories, and I don't have to tell you how many units of local regional self-government are involved. So we half of them when we look at both these health institutions and the Red Cross, so we half of them in one annual process don't get to be made. I just don't want in that, of course the plan to be realistic, it has to be quality and good, I don't want it to be safe because of the lack of capacity and quantity and quality, we're constantly being set up to miss out and the lack of efficiency don't give God some illegal business in the units of local self-government that goes to harm all of us and citizens, because this is about budget money. I believe so too, and we had the opportunity to see in the media what a Court of Auditors at EU level is doing, and that only became interesting when we found out what a member's salary was. All right, it's not that size, it's not that way, but surely the State Audit Office must be the place where they come most professional from their fields. It means that someone who's a banker is upstairs to go to the State Audit Office, not vice versa, if we're talking about pay, because that's where we need the highest-quality employees, and I won't even mention the average salary. Why, because for us, it's always the same, it's always the same story, 30% missing, 30% extra employees in the euro sector, 15% missing, yes, we need quality people who know, who have skills that will certainly be able to do it. And I need these people adequately paid, I'm not saying they're not now, but I'm sure that this financial aspect is the one that we need to consider when making a budget and allocating funds for the State Audit Office, the one that's going to encourage even more motivation of work, because you know that, no matter how responsible the job is when you have so many people in one place are certainly not all the same, not two brothers are the same, so I can't be two employees the same. And we need to find a model of how to reward and attract the best ones that work, who are the most successful in their business, who know their jobs and pay them adequately. She'll pay for it. If this same work prevents these same people, stop certain mistakes and save money for Croatian citizens who then pay these same people to do so. And it's a closed circle. And in fact, in this direction, we will certainly, and before the HNS Club, of course, also talk to our partners, that in those key criteria where this expertise is absolutely necessary when we talk about financial analyses, the public also found out little about what some auditors are when the Agrokor problem came up, so when it was said that I didn't know how much money and months and months needed to revise some consolidated Agrokor report. This may not be the analogue example, but the revision of whether financial operations, watch out for the audit of the financial operations of the local self-government units, so how much does it get, how many payments there are different, how many donations there are, how many fund-raisers, whether they do legality in one city that doesn't have to be, that maybe has a budget of 200 million kuna, and we have cities with several hundred and even billions. How many people need to go through all this, how long? Of course, that we want our unit of local self-government, our state bodies to be as efficient and efficient as possible, and this is one of these tools, not that someone is being repressive, I don't like to see it as repression, precisely through these recommendations, through opinions, I like to see it as helping these units of local self-government, perhaps not sufficiently capacitated by the quality and quantity of people who do precisely through these recommendations and opinions come in one more efficient way, of course cheaper and, of course, cheaper for our citizens. And that in my view must be the meaning of a state audit, that exactly what we've been talking about this whole time about public administration to make this system more efficient and efficient and to help him, not punish him, not meet his own criteria that he has to punish someone or not there's no such pressure, thank God. But there must be room for more people to come, to come as skilled people as possible, to pay them adequately, to be even more motivated for their work, and to make this work as high as possible because it brings savings to our citizens and at the very end of the line, raises the quality of every institution and unit of local self-government, state etc. Finally, the HNS Club will, of course, accept this report. Congratulations on your work and on the audits carried out according to the plan you had for last year. I wish it could always get more involved. I know there's a capacity issue here and people's first and foremost. Of course and financially then, but we want, first of all, to make your findings as high as possible, to make the audits as high as possible and to have as much effect as possible for our citizens. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130990	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. First reported is colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130991	Thank you very much, well-respected representatives of the state audit headed by the leader. So in short, here's the state review, I would agree with everyone, that doing their job is correct, in line with their capacities that should be much larger, because simply, the size of the job is huge, there are certainly those things that might need to expand the circle of action. I mentioned it before, and that's where I'm going to start because looking at only here, all that's said, it's a huge job, it's a job that gives us essentially one picture, where we are. I wouldn't talk much about local self-government units, but it's obvious that the huge number of units of local self-government are 71, 11 cities and 60 municipalities, 35 is unconditional, 34 are conditional and two unfavourable opinions. So, even worse this... order of business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means, local self-government units, even if we saw, we looked at the companies owned, if we looked at the institutions, there were even more devastating results. However, I will repeat once again that the state audit was doing its job and the purpose of the state audit is essentially to point to certain irregularities that should be corrected. I'll mention the shipbuilding here. In 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, the state audit repeated, repeated to us MPs, sent by the government a report, had all the institutions, that money was not spent purposefully but illegally. If it's not intended, it means it's not according to the regulations for which that money is for. Now imagine where we found ourselves now. The audit warns, the government knows about it, the unions warn, the public speaks, we parliamentary representatives about it every year, at least since I've been in the Parliament and in recent years we've been discussing and the money that should have been invested in shipbuilding is not an investment for shipbuilding. And it's like, it's all right, says the owner of Brodosplit, that's normal, that's how it has to be. It's probably how the Oil Man did it, and it didn't mean to waste it, and now we're in a huge problem. Not by the guilt of the audit she showed us in Parliament, government and institutions, DORH and other institutions, but who is there, in this chain, responsible? Then what's the point of your efforts in the first place? You've got this much work to do, you point to irregularities, you try, and what's the result? The result is that you give your opinion, which has been given, and what has continued, what has been done? Except that we argued that the money for shipbuilding in the billions of kuna in five years wasn't spent, but every year she warned about it, the office, that is. State audits in his, every year. And every year, we debated that the money that goes for the shipbuilding is not invested in purpose. It's who knows where he's going. So if it wasn't for purpose, it wasn't for shipbuilding, for the development of shipbuilding. Therefore, you have done your job neatly and it will all point out, there is no, in accordance with its capabilities and human capacities, and financial capacities, I believe it should be extended, that what is indicated, to be corrected. And not for five years, five years in the report finds that money is spent unintentionally. For shipbuilding. And nothing to anyone. No one's doing anything, and we've led to the collapse of our shipbuilding. That one of the strongest branches we've ever had is suddenly falling apart. And the state subsidized that money to survive shipbuilding, that people who are schooling for shipbuilding should remain young, experts, from welders, to engineers, designers, to stay in Croatia because they are investing, not to go to third countries and that our people now have no opportunities, cooperatives that produce certain parts or certain things for ships, cannot be exported to the market. This is where the key question is raised, for everything the audit has done, what have the institutions responsible done? Nothing. And the result is now visible. It is visible about shipbuilding in Croatia. This is where you mentioned the most important thing to me, so personally one of the most important things in school is health care. And you here state institutions, hospitals and other institutions and you give opinions and parole and you list these exactly everything that wasn't done in accordance with the law. Personally, when I see this, I mean, here, you list here, you list exactly what's with health care, so from public procurement, pay that they're not, you're all listed, okay, but the state. We have health homes that are the backbone in two-thirds of Croatia. We don't have a hospital now. Most hospitals are in Zagreb. And only people in Zagreb have the possibility of health care at least at some level. However, health homes in Slavonia, Dalmatia, Lica, two-thirds of Croatia, are essentially the health homes of the health care centre. And money decentralised money, the state gives for health care. But what's going on? It happens that the health director doesn't need to invest that money in specialization, so I'll do it again, for example. in the health home of the Split-Dalmatia County, there was no pediatrician, I mentioned. Why aren't there any pediatricians? The same one who was the director of the home of health, says no pediatricians, and in the last 10 years since he was the director of the home of health, I am sorry that there is no Ante Sanader who was mayor in the 10th year. Not once, not a single specialty for a pediatrician, but the people had to, our doctors who came from our neighborhood to Gospić for specialization, after all of the Republic, and the money was given to get young schooled to have a pediatrician, and not today here under pressure, here I hear that here today, but I guess I was talking in HS, a little pressure, now they found some pediatrician, which is good, instead of 4 we had one, two or so, so the doctor has to go to sick and no pediatricians. So radiology, women, literally, here, women's homes of health triba, women literally because we don't have radiologists, there's no specialization of the registered doctors, and there's not enough paying for them, is it much more important that in the homes of health to arrest the clerk what's more, rather than invest in specializations, how to set up jobs for some to change the sphinx, rebuilding, habit of some renewal, huge money going away, it's through public procurement, instead of investing that money to have specialists of radiologists, we don't have them. Here, I repeat, there are no radiologists in the Cetina region, women every 6 months waiting in rows, literally numerous in the ranks to enroll themselves in half of the year to review themselves, many of them don't sign up, many of them don't have the ability to perform an ultrasound of their breasts, numerous deaths, they don't know what they died of, in rows, it's a disaster, I'm living here, I know, and now they've been putting down even a lower ladder, what the state has brought to them to have examples of four pediatricians, one in Trill, three in Sinj, so in all, we're talking about underdeveloped areas 2/3 of RH, we only have 2, these 2 didn't call, these 2 didn't even call in the concession because they didn't call in, so now, here we're going to call out 30 specialization, but 5 years of triba waiting for the doctor to finish, so you're gonna have to finish up, you're gonna have kids with the kids, you're gonna have to see the kids with your parents in jails, and then they'll have to seeit 'll have to get their parents andthen , and thenthey 's to go to go to go to go to go to thewrong , and to see yourparentss , and to see yourparents , andthen , andthen , andthen , and thenthey 's to see yourparents , and thenthey 's to go to go to go to go to go to get to get to go to get to go to get to go to go to go to go to go to go to go to go to go to go to go to go to see yourparents , to see yourparents , to see yourparents , to see yourparents , to see yourparents. Something that was well organized, the state decentralized their money, and the county did so much damage in health care, here for Split-Dalmatia that it was amazing. The county is the one who cares about health care, her goal is health care and education, that's her goal. In addition to the Pharaohic influence on employment and public procurement, everything else has been destroyed, I argue responsibly, we have had 4 pediatricians in the Cetina region, one in Trilj, three in Sinj which is an area larger than Međimurje County, more inhabitants have the Cetinski area, than Ličko-Senj County, more, so there, 3500 children have fallen to one pediatrician, so imagine what it is, it is a vast area and so in all parts of the Republic. We have a hospital in Knin, and even for one pool, for fiscal therapy, we gave them a beautiful name, name of Croatian Pride, so I can't invest in that pool. I repeat again, we've had enough of just coming before the elections in Sinjska Alka, the državni prosciutto, the top-notch ham, and they're just messing with our tables and in the pre-election campaign, the real state I'm talking about, I'm living down, not under these lights, I'm telling the reality that they've destroyed our most important, which is health care, it's county and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130992	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, we have a replica on your display, colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130993	Col. Bulj, although the audit and the specialization have no major connections, but it has prompted your exposure to point out what the review has been saying for years for health institutions that there is a disproportionate between income and expenditure of health institutions and that these revenues and expenditures need to be balanced in order for them to operate in a better way than they are now. Most medical institutions over 80, almost 90%, and some spend more money on salaries and employees, so very little remains for what their role is, which is the treatment of patients. The fact that the health system needs a change, that's what the review has been saying for years, but here, no government, nor the government where I've been sitting, has bit into that acid lemon and finally solved the health problem is it generating losses in the Republic of Croatia over 20 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130994	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130995	You see in the content that they have health institutions, and health care homes are also institutions, but they are not covered by these audits, I have warned what is going on, which means that health care, on the page. 31. If you read the report, I have it here and I really read it in detail and I see that they did this part of the hospital, so you're wrong when you say it has nothing to do with health institutions, what's untrue, it's the state money that's being decentralized and during your government, so we Sinjani had to protest that we don't have stationers, that we don't have a birth certificate, that our women don't die in the ranks, that's in Dalmatia, that's the fact, that's right in Lica, that's right in Makarska, that's right in Vrgorac, in the whole of Split-Dalmatia County there's no doctor because they didn't invest in specialization, and the money for the decentralised funds that come down here they invested in the employment of health officials and invested in public procurement that are harmful because of doctors that we don't have today, and therefore the responsible person today is still the director and today, and today the former mayor of Ande. Like today, Boban, it's [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Health Services vertigo [[Intruder: Thank you]] in Split-Dalmatia County. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130996	Thanks, buddy Bull. We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130997	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome here the present head of state auditor with my associates. Before the Party we change Croatia I want to first commend the work of the State Audit, the Office for State Audit and to say that it is one of the few institutions in our country that works professionally and in quality. However, we will also support this report, but I would like to put a few emphasis on some information from your report. So that the state audit could achieve its goal and mission expected by society, all citizens, and that is one of the pillars and democracy and business of the economy, the functioning of all institutions that comes down to knowing the real truth, making data about how the public sector you are responsible for regularly re-editing and monitoring business. So I'm concerned by the fact that according to the systemization you need to have about 340 employees and according to the latest report you have here, you have 299 employees, so somewhere around 40 people are... I mean, you're supposed to, but you don't have any. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question is why, so obviously you have to act rationally because you don't have enough financial resources yourself. And it doesn't seem strange to me as an agent and economists. Because if you've had about 54 million kunas of income so far and now you've only increased 10% on the hood so nearly 60, then you're asking how you can function in the future. In my opinion, that's not enough. And when we see how in this budget for the past year the hand and hat were shared around, so here we look across Mark's square, through Mark's church, just the government's budget over the past two years more than doubled. Why? So that Prime Minister Plenkovic can lead the PR policy, because his politics are run by the PRs, with him economic indicators are always good. If exports fell compared to last month then they have a task of finding a month that was bad and they say they increased compared to that month, you know. Now I'm going back to the State Audit Office. Because of the limited amount of financial resources, the budget you have at your disposal, the simple and insufficient salaries as much as anyone has said that they may be, you simply are, and you will be faced with labour fluctuations and someone here before me said that the age structure in the State Audit Office is not, let's just say, not the best. You need younger people because the construction and education of beginners takes a long time because it is sophisticated and highly demanding and responsible jobs and today young people don't like it very much means let's say, not all of them, but one part of them don't want to accept for a small salary of great responsibility. What else is important to say here? It's important here to say that someone is still happy with this fact that you don't have the resources you need from finance, space, etc. Who's that? What groups are these? Well, these are clienteleistic, corrupt groups that you'd most like never to be there, that you can do whatever you want, and in that sense I'm sure, it's not an accident, be careful, DORH, the State Audit Office, the Tax Administration, so that's, it's gotta be the pillars of every country's institutions. Well, then we'll come if they do business, they have the resources they need, then in that country they're doing different things, then don't run away from it, don't move out, then it's much more transparent, not to say everything, but we're not in that situation. And it's no coincidence that the policy of this and the previous government was precisely that on the dropper of those institutions, among which your own gives resources, or controls it, they want to control everything. They want to control everything absolutely. When we talk about Croatia, meaning about the State Audit Office, I can't help but look back on the situation from two weeks ago in this House when the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, they said that they proposed and I don't believe it, I think that the proposed CNB itself has adapted and proposed a new State Audit Act. I've talked about it a lot, of course such comments don't come to the media because they're being controlled, controlled, started by public television, and now I understand the citizens who are looking for and want not to pay the subscription because there's total censorship, total censorship, and that's really something that's sad, and we need to change that. What is the problem with amending the Law on State Audit and the possibility of revising the supervision of the work of the CNB? The problem is that according to my deep conviction as an economist expert, not only is the politician that this law, namely that the State Audit Office, which is said in one article of the law to be said to be the supreme audit institution in this country, is what it is, but please say about this way that citizens understand better, you from the state audit when you come to the National Bank, you will be able to control just how much paper they have, how many cars, buildings, and nothing else you can control there. It is said that the CNB will use the commercial audit it pays, you know, and you from the state audit will not be able to revise and deal with what they were doing there. So gentlemen, this is, dear citizens, I'm talking to you, because when the next election is, you need to recognize who's doing the political scene and you see. But why, why did HDZ and its partners change this law? So they said, "Give me more of this Lovrinović and those of the Living Wall, what I know, them, a lot of them, let's be sly so we can take the initiative because they want the State Audit to get into the CNB all the time, let's take that initiative and they've taken the initiative and here's the bill they've made, and they've adopted it, you see. But respected citizens, as I explained to you, this is just eye rub. So for the first time, it happened that the State Audit, this law, was demoted and there's something else they haven't explained to you. The state review is being prepared by this law, that someone will review it too, which is about like this, the law says, they will choose a few market auditors, someone will pay for it, so they can check how the State Audit Office works. It's about, like, if we were to decide today that the Constitutional Court, we say, and someone will oversee you, it doesn't matter what you are, the Constitutional Court, so we'll find a few judges, we'll pay for it, but they'll file a report as you do. You see, we can't do this anymore, this is, forgive me for the expression, but this really, it fell to the lowest level, this is the bottom, this is playing with democracy, and so the party will change Croatia, when it takes responsibility for the leadership of the state, along with other partners after the election, one of the key things that we're going to do, the amendments to the CNB Act will restore the dignity of the State Audit Office and other professions, means tax administration and the DORH, and then the institutions will do what they need, but with far more resources they need than they've ever been before. There are many acts of democracy in this country, there is plenty of clientism, Croatia is failing because of it and finally has to say that this time you have someone in the Parliament and vote for and you see that we are starting and opening the right topics that were not to be discussed in this House before. And here I am once again telling you that we will support this report and I hope that you will continue to function successfully, despite all the restrictions that they have given you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130998	Thank you for your presentation. We have replicas. First of all, she's a colleague of Juricev's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u130999	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Lovrinović, you spoke of insufficient resources from the State Audit Office, we have data, that the planned expenditure for 2018s was 61 million 393 thousand, and 56 million 321 thousand were achieved, which shows that they achieved savings or less expenditure than planned in excess of 5 million kn. And when we compare it to what was planned in the following year, it means another 6 million and 608,000 kuna, it's more planned to be singled out for the work of this state office than it is in 2018, so I guess the way you say it is, that the data would be something different.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131000	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131001	Dear colleagues of Juričev, you know, your auditors are like this, they'll, if you give it to you, what little it is, because this isn't the first time they've been taken, they've had bigger salaries before, a few years ago, now they've got less. Something's gonna work, but it's not gonna be what it was again. Therefore, you, as the ruling coalition, increased the budget expenditure by 4.5 billion and ate the donkey wolf, and you did not explain to anyone why it increased. So this way of acting, where they didn't want to spend it, so it's just a sign, we don't know what's waiting for us, so they can cut us down next year, etc. So, simply, I don't know what to say to everything that seems, in that sense, simply rejoices as in health care, the commitment of a doctor, and in such a case these people and their associates, they hold that system, more because of their conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131002	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131003	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, the new law provides that the amount of funds and plans for next year, i.e. for amending and supplementing the budget, should be passed by the Finance Committee, i.e. it proposes, or proposed, the Committee on Finance, so that this State Audit Office would receive as much funding as possible. I hope then that you will actively participate in this and that you will support everything that we do, that this State Audit Office will receive as much funds as possible, to hire, precisely more auditors who are missing because they do so with their work, and they deserve, therefore, here I hope that you will be present then at committee meetings.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131004	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131005	Dear counterpart Paric, you are the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, unfortunately, citizens do not know how the board works, it is a shame not to be broadcast live on television, I am a member of this committee and always there, for the sake of the voting machine. We can say this and that, however, raised hands in the air decide what needs to be done. You have made the decision and simply disabled the signatures of 34 MPs here in the assembly that I have initiated and the governor of the CNB is invited to a public hearing here, you have answered to me some, which is said to be quite unsuspecting answers and you have taken over yourself in power to simply allow what you can't, here's what you do, therefore. I support these people this institution, but your way of working, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131006	Thank you and the last replica, colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131007	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, I don't know how you interpret one situation, which is almost so amazing for me that one HDZ chief declares political persecution, when the office for the State Audit Office warns him that he is working illegally and ends up with the applications of competent institutions and thus denies even the laws of the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand we don't see a single reaction here from HDZ MPs who would say that man doesn't deserve to be a member of one party at all, for example that someone in the SDP is acting that way, we have seen how this man worked and that he calls himself to political pressure of the Office for Auditing, to deal with such irregularities, believe me that we would be fenced immediately and that he wouldn't be a member of the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131008	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131009	Well, you see, colleague Maras, the law in Croatia is not the same for everyone. As a rule... This ruling coalition says that the law is for them, for everyone else, for those of us in that coalition, or not for me, because I am not in opposition, so it is worth it for us, not for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you see, every week let the affair come out, this one lets it go, so Croatia can't shorten the answer, we can no longer, long ago we can't do this, we simply need to blow that political swath out of the market and introduce Croatia into a new period of optimism, justice and law that applies to all and in a period where man will be able to work here fairly and make a solid living and to stop moving out of our country. First of all, it means the judiciary and the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131010	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131011	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here, as today's topic, the work of the State Audit is comprehensive, huge, large, comprises a very large number of entities and, in addition, the law imposes new standards and certain new conditions and new reports which they must actually give a complete overview of the business of certain ministries, the state budget as well as companies owned by the state or units of local self-government and also a large number of municipalities, cities and use of funds. It is very important to discuss this in this House of Higher Education, and it would only depend on what my colleague Lovrinovic has been calling all day, and that is that there is no way to talk in this House of Higher Education about certain things that are incorrect. My reply to him regarding the CNB report, which is a semi-annual report for 2018, is in fact a document to be discussed on the inter alia at the meetings of the Finance Committee and the same as the report of the State Office for Audit and of all other entities and of all other important units that are components of both this society and this State. So when it comes to the Committee on Finance, then there's a chance to talk about reports, ask about everything, question but there's obviously not enough involved in what's actually the biggest problem of some colleagues like this case, so then in this way it wants to distract itself, much greater attention is happening to the Committee itself. But here, what you should say is that the State Audit Office is also on this occasion and we had a big agenda, audited among other users of the state budget, local units, so cities and municipalities, political parties, reviewing the effectiveness of the allocation of current donations from the budget of local self-government units, and also reviewing the efficiency of the use of external services in companies and waiting for us, among other things, the revision of the Red Cross. Through the report on the work of the State Audit Office itself, it speaks very nicely and is very nice to read in the scope of what they have audited, what they have found, so I would look back at a few facts that are very important to me, given that I come from a local unit. In this report it was 60 municipalities and 11 cities and in 2017 it was the total revenues of these units were somewhere around 986 million kuna incomes, which relative to total revenues and when we look at the state budget, is not a large amount, but it is a life that actually gives a cut to our society and it is very important how these units function. It is evident that 35 units had surplus resources, while also when we look at 35 they had unconditional opinions while 34 had conditional opinions and 2 unfavourable opinions. It is very important that this ratio is increased in favour of unconditional opinions, so it is very important for the recommendations made by the State Office for Auditing and Professional People who do so, that the more we actually communicate, the more we read all those that are irregularities and where a much better result can be achieved. What should be pointed out is that in these units there are very large claims these are major problems and the very collection of these claims, so when compared to the total revenues that they have, therefore, a large part of the claim relates precisely to municipal contributions, to the communal compensation. There are also problems in bankruptcy proceedings, and in the audit itself, which was made in relation to the state budget and the ministry, it is evident that we do not actually have any effective means and sometimes create instruments to write off these claims, or there is much more to be done in a way that, in a timely manner, how to do it in a quality way, but also all those that are inaccessible that can be regularly and transparently actually cleared from the balances of cities and municipalities that have not done it, and there are also in the words of the ministries. It's the same thing to say that, for example, Of the 85 recommendations given in cities 54 are recommendations e.g. have been made and implemented, and in the municipalities of 529 321 has been made and implemented which is a very high number, and this is important for these recommendations and to be respected and implemented in due time within those legal deadlines as provided for. When we look at the new standards, the State Audit Office gives 2 opinions, which is for financial reports and for business coherence, it is also very important to say that when you look at the State budget of the users of the state budget, which is 20 ministries and 3 institutions, out of the total of 108 billion kunas covered by this revision, over 60 billion kuna refers to exactly 2 institutions, which is HZMO and HZZO. What does that mean? Yes, and in this case, they have even had a good or someone unconditional, some conditional opinion, but we can say that there is actually the core of the problem and the very high means that go right for that purpose. It is also one of the recommendations that the Ministry of Finance finds a way to actively regulate the breakthrough of mutual claims and obligations, which I suppose is really necessary in the overall analysis itself and how to take care of it, that exactly the internal debt and everything that can be beaten in any way to be implemented as soon as possible in order to actually have as clean a situation as possible in our books, because what I also warns about is that the State Audit Office is also important to bring the rules to which certain services or certain activities will be implemented in a way that, at the end of the day and prices regulated in relation to the fact that HZZ is separate, therefore, in relation to those services paid by the Ministry of Health The Bureau itself. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131012	Thank you, we have three replicas for your presentation, but before the replica, I have one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131013	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I didn't ask for a replica, but for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and first of all, you waited three minutes, I don't know what you were doing. A colleague instead of focusing on the subject, the state review report she devoted 3 minutes to me, which I should be doing, which I thought, etc., so you should have interrupted, warned her because this simply can't be done in the assembly. And you colleagues use other methods to Let's get clear [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Not this regular one. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131014	You didn't specify, you didn't specify the article, but it doesn't matter, we move on. He's a colleague of Maras's first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131015	Thank you very much, colleague Grosdana Perić, here I am interested in what you think about whether the gentleman named Sinisa Pavlovic, the head of Klostar Podravski municipality, after assessing the audit unfavorably about his work, about the obvious malversions and irregularities in working with and documentation, travel orders, cash etc., etc., who later declares that it is a political persecution of the state audit towards him, this what do you think that HDZ's head of Klostar Podravski municipality deserves to be a member of HDZ? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131016	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131017	First of all, if anyone is evaluated in this way, such a person must be responsible for his actions and must have a obligation and moral and, moreover, a criminal. Whether he should remain a party member or not will in any case decide our party president, not me, but in any case for everything he does not, which he did not do properly both morally and materially should I offer his resignation and leave that post.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131018	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131019	Thank you very much. Mrs Grozdana Peric said one amazing thing, Article 238 was injured where she said that in democratic Croatia where parties have settled statutes and rules of procedure it does not matter whether you respect the laws, statutes and Rules of Procedure rather than what the party president Andrej Plenkovic says. So it doesn't matter if this Mr. Pavlovic committed a crime, if Andrej Plenkovic says he stays in HDZ, he stays. And that's what I think deserves a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131020	Thank you very much. The rules of procedure have not been broken. Now we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131021	Well, here's what I'd call myself in 238, I said it in a conditional way, so there are statutes and there are commissions that are competent, court honors and everything else within our party that will take care of it and that will, in that way, make decisions. And I said it in one, well, conditional way as party president or in a way that is still important to this hierarchy but I mean, first of all, it's important... [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131022	You know what, I'm begging you don't abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't make sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think it's also important because of the democracy in Croatia and the people who are watching us here. So President Andrej Plenkovic of HDZ can't be more important than the positive legislation in the Republic of Croatia. And on that side, it would be normal for you here to say no matter what HDZ President Andrej Plenkovic thinks, that colleague cannot be a member of the party because he has violated very probably a lot of legal regulations. Croatia doesn't need this. So you need to protect the laws, not HDZ or HDZ members.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131024	Thank you, colleague Maras, thank you, well, let's stop this now because it wasn't the same injury to the Rules of Procedure. Continue with the replicas, please, Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131025	Thank you, Vice President. Listen, colleagues Peric, all day of the review, I'd say, that's one institution we can say is rarely doing a good job. And everyone commended you in this assembly as much as I've seen. But one thing I'm curious about, and we know it's not like that, you know, when you brought all this, these controls, but did the DORH return you to know if you sent anything to the DORH did the DORH do his job? It's a question I'd like to hear that the DORH simply returns back to you what they did for the wrong ones and that we in the Assembly know something about it. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131026	Well, the replica is probably sent to you, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131027	I know how the procedure is done and how the State Audit Office is obliged to deliver all irregularities and all reports to the State's Attorney's Office. Therefore, the State Attorney's Office then directs the institutions that do the reconnaissance, determines the failures made and punishes them, whether criminal or criminal, so there is a procedure but cannot be given by the State Audit Office, but then we would have to question it when the State's Attorney's report is that we then ask what happened in specific cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131028	Thank you. Before the last replica we will welcome students and students of the School of Graphics, Design and Media Production Zagreb, welcome to the Parliament. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131029	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, you said communication should be much better, I think that the Office of State Audit has good communication mostly with the Parliament every year, but the fact is that still, meaning example, warning and I will repeat it always, warning that for shipbuilding, our shipyards have given funds, huge in billions that have not been used purposefully and 5 years nothing has been done and we are discussing it. Also, you see, the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, at the bottom of the EU, 70% of the funds have not been withdrawn. And then the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds should be abolished because the minister has done nothing, and you can see in this here means in conclusion. So we don't respect what the audit is doing, but on the contrary, we're doing it against what we're reviewing. But that's visible from everything and health care, local self-government, and I said mostly for shipbuilding. And now that the balloon's broken, we have a problem with shipbuilding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131030	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131031	Well, I think exactly the opposite of you, no matter how much you claim not to act, it's very much the units of local self-government and ministry and everyone else is very much holding and respecting all those recommendations that the State Audit Office makes. And if nothing had been done, I wouldn't have said it when you look at the previous period and the financial perspective that has been so far. So that's what the numbers are talking about. And if we can do better, that's something we should think about anyway. As for individual cases such as shipbuilding and the like, so far and all governments should have thought very highly of it even when large guarantees were given in the previous period.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131032	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131033	Well, a colleague, the Honorable President, hurt 238. The Rules of Procedure, because she said that I have some opinion, not this is the opinion of the revision, I read about competitiveness, meaning the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. So we're at the bottom of the Republic of Croatia and about 70% did not withdraw the funds we're supposed to have until 2023. Which means it's not my attitude, but the conclusion means the state audit you're praising.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131034	Yes, the Rules of Procedure have not been accepted and I beg you, therefore, for the rest of the session, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to start giving warnings, now... Next, here you go, fellow Stazic. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131035	Thank you, Vice President. So I'm going to look back at the State Audit report on the Red Cross, it's on the one hand, it's quite extensive, and on the other hand it's vague and foggy. You're saying most Red Cross companies didn't form a book, which means most of them, which, and then it was found that most Red Cross companies didn't record the collected and distributed humanitarian aid in their business books, so some Red Cross companies didn't record the revenues, so some Red Cross companies didn't fill out the questionnaires. I have not seen anywhere that with this generality, I have not seen anywhere that you have recorded, that you have established one obvious abuse by the Red Cross of Zagreb, which was given by the tent, that guarded tent that has been for over a year for political purposes. I don't see here in the listed activities that the Red Cross needs to deal with, and that's where you listed them, that anywhere it stands is that it has to help some political party and participate in the agitation. Everyone saw, everyone knew what the tent was for, it also said, "They both fell, they both fell," and it was thought, of course, of Prime Minister Milanovic and President Josipovic. So, the Red Cross is directly involved in the political campaign in the most direct way possible, giving one protest group that has a political goal recorded and that has moved away when this political goal has been achieved, a direct political goal, and you in the revision of the Red Cross's activities, it doesn't matter to you, and I think that the Red Cross has been embarrassed by it, that it has been disgraced, that it has played in the worst possible way its basic activity, a humanitarian association, a noble association that needs to help those who need help, not those who would want power because they are not in power right now. I'll say something now, not about red, but about the black cross, it's not your fault, it's not your fault, but we're wondering why there's no revision of the Catholic Church? The Red Cross has the funds of 150 million 997 thousand kuna, 150 million, almost 160 million kuna, and the Catholic Church receives from the state 600 million kuna, and the local self-government units another 400 and has over a billion kuna of public money. You'll say we can't revise the Catholic Church because it's such Vatican contracts, so we didn't sign them, HS is to blame for them, HS is to blame for them. But that public money, that public money is not controlled by anyone at all, and it should, in my deep conviction, be controlled by the State Audit. This money pays 2577 creditors in primary schools and another 585 in secondary schools, and that the state has no influence on who these creditors will be, they are elected by the Catholic Church, and they are paid for the public money that the State's audit controls in the last unit of local self-government, in that smallest. These believers in their teaching programs are taught children that they are guilty of Holocaust atheists and are paid for by public money that no one controls. And I'd be interested, for example. How much was last year's mass on Bleiburg, the Ustasha Mass? And that revision of the work of the Catholic Church we need to hear, we need to hear from the church in Korea because that was the only sentence that was audited, so you won't, anymore, you won't hold the Masses for Ustasha, you won't do it and therefore, get away from us as far away from us as possible. Because of his hate speech, one of the credentials was charged and paid for by public money. So, here, I appeal that, with the Red Cross being revised, whose operation is being revised, I would prefer it to be a little more closely revised, to finally introduce and audit the black cross, because it spends a lot more of state money and because it does not only raise tents for political purposes, church and agitate, but also performs an agitation for and historic auditism and supports a failed Ustasha regime that disgusts the entire advanced world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131036	Five replicas, but we have one breach of the Rules of Procedure first. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131037	Dear Chairman, fellow Stazic is here if I am not mistaken, even the Black Cross has spoken, if I am not mistaken. So you hurt Article 238 because you hate the Catholic Church and all that's connected to it is your problem, so that's your problem. Don't poison the public spacious and don't poison the Croatian National Assembly with your hatred, I beg you. And as chairman, I ask you to give a warning for his hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131038	Okay, now we're moving on with the replicas, first mate Furio Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131039	Thank you very much, with all due respect to fellow Stazic, but the Red Cross has not lost one, I will refer to the easier part of your speech, the red cross has not lost any dignity because it was present at some events that neither you nor I agree with. You know better than me that the Red Cross is in events that are much harder than these events, these events are called wars, which is why the Red Cross was invented, and in those wars that we don't agree with either side, and they're there for humanitarian reasons. So let's separate these two things, where there's a possibility that the Red Cross will reduce the possible human damage to any event there is a Red Cross place, and I respect the Red Cross very much, and I believe you too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131040	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131041	I respect the Red Cross in humanitarian activity and it should be present in wars and help those who die in these wars, that it is his purpose. But it's not his purpose to engage in a political struggle. And when she does, when she does, she embarrasses herself, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Look, one is a political war, and the other is a political agitation to win over power, it has nothing to do with one another. And that's where the Red Cross helped one side directly in the fight for power.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131042	The next replica of my colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131043	My colleague, you would probably want me to be a red sickle and a hammer, unfortunately for you, it's still the Red Cross. But here is fantastic how much your hatred for everything that has any connection to the church, any connection to patriotism, so you can't hide your hatred for those who were killed in the Bleiburg field for the second time, and you're actually indirectly celebrating all those cookies and criminals that are for the execution of innocent people in the Bleiburg field. And I'm interested in what all this has to do with the state review and how you managed your hatred for the Catholic Church, so this law that has nothing to do with it just to say once again I hate the Catholic Church, I like the sacrifice of the Croatian people in the Bleiburg field.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131044	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131045	But none of what you said is true, but nothing at all. What's going on in the Bleiburg field and that marking about it has been told you by the church in Koruska. The Catholic Church in Koruska, not Nenad Stazic, but the Catholic Church in Koruska said it would not allow that manifestation of the greatness of the constitution, which is what she told you. I'm glad that it was the power to make a church in Korea, and not the Croatian Parliament, and I was when I was vice president of the assembly I suggested not to be patrons of it, but there's a church in Korea that agreed with me, unfortunately disagrees with you, but that's your problem, so I have nothing to do with it, give a little listen to the bishops in Korusko might make some things clearer to you, if you can figure it out at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131046	The next replica of my colleague, Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131047	Dear Mr. Vice President, fellow Stazic, you have repeatedly expressed what has already been said to be a deep hatred for everything that is not in your sense that the world in Croatia should look like, what it looked like 45 years when your communists were in power. You are a classic relic of that time, a classic product of that time that cannot comprehend or allow anything else to be done. Fortunately, the time for democracy has come where things can be done differently. To say that mass in the Bleiburg field of mass Ustasha Mass or Ustasha Mass is one big lie, it is a mass in memory of all those victims who were killed after the end of II. the world war that the Allied army handed over to the Partisans, and they brutally killed, which on Bleiburg, which on the crossroads that came after that and served in memory of all these sacrifices, and where it is The vast majority were civilians [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Not soldiers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131048	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131049	I don't know what my communists you're talking about when I was never a member of that party. For you, I don't know, most of the HDZ was in that party, unlike me. I've already told you about the Mass in Bleiburg, what the Catholic Church thinks about it, probably according to Pope Francis. And that statement by Bozanic from 10, 15 days ago is probably based on the guidance of the top tiffex, because so far he had no need to pronounce it. But so far, even the bishop in Klagenfurt had no need to ban it, but here we have a Pope who we can be proud of and be happy that the Catholic Church chose him and led him in such a proper manner. You'd probably take her who knows where.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131050	Thank you. Next replica, Col. Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131051	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, fellow Stazic, the tent justified its purpose, and they both fell, and thank God that you fell off your bike. You said, in one of your discussions, the Partisans didn't finish the 45th. If the defenders had finished the job in '95, they wouldn't need a tent. And thank you tent for meeting me here, if it's on one percent, for coming here so I can tell you to your face what's going on, shame on you. The hater of everything that's Croatian. You're an insult machine for Croats. Since I came to this House, you have not once praised the Church or the Croatian people. Just for one reason. Which you yourself know, and I know where you come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131052	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131053	I think Mr. Vice President this is an art. 238 was absolutely violated and that fellow Culej was spoken by a colleague, and that's where we express our opinion, isn't it? My colleague Stazic expressed his opinion and you expressed your opinion. And I didn't hear anything offensive but just heard the opinion, I think he deserved a warning, I think, and that's what you decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131054	Please, in the future, so don't go down to the personal level of the debate and switch from topic to general what you've been talking about. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131055	Listen, Culey. It's really not my fault that you're Steve, not Stephen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131056	Okay, please. Here, come on, please. Please, my last replica, my colleague Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131057	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Stazich, be ashamed of this speech of yours that you speak in the Parliament. How dare you say that after 200 thousand people killed in Bleiburg? How many times have you repeated here against the Church of the Parliament, and we are 90% Catholic people. You, if you hate the Church, you have the right to do so, but you have no right to lecture in this House. It's another thing. That criminal who killed those 200 thousand people, you don't even have a little conscience, and you had to say it was a crime, but it was a need for you. And what Culey repeated, you didn't, in your further speeches was we didn't finish our job. You've finished everything you've done, you'll never be able to do that job you've done again, unfortunately, these 200 grand. How are you not ashamed in this House to speak so rudely, and who gives you this right? And which party puts you on the list of such a man...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131058	All right, all right. I said, don't do it yourself. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131059	I speak in the Parliament what I think. And what people who voted for me and my party think. They don't mean like you. I'll never be ashamed to tell the truth. I will never be ashamed to say that the Ustasha were criminals and I will never be ashamed to say that those who support They're nothing else. [[Employer: A colleague of Mišić.]] It's the criminals. [[I'll give you one last warning.]] Because only a criminal can support a crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131060	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Comrade Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131061	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the State of Audit. So, we're sort of on some kind of film tape here, sort of doing state audit reports. Last year we had for 2017. We already have for 2018. So we're reading, like, dozens of pages, and it's all pretty well written, neatly, systematically, so there's no big grudge. But the question arises, what have we discovered now with these state audits? I'd dare say we've discovered hot water because in some ways, everything we've known has been numbered here. It is said to be the worst public procurement in the city of Zagreb. It says the Zagreb Holding doesn't respect the laws. It's written, I don't know, that budget money is spent on purpose. That there are employment, which are also full of irregularities. So what now? Well, the sparrows on the branch already know that. For that, we could literally stop the first man on the street, ask him, and he would tell you without this report. It's a common-known thing. Now, whether it's 10 or 20 million kuna, it can be debated, but the fact is, therefore, that this country is filled with illegality, irregularities, bribes, corruption, nepotism, party and any other similarity. It would be crucial, in fact, to see what the consequences of this report are, or what solutions are offered to change the situation? Because if the state audit had come here now, and I don't know, discovered a crime of billions of kuna, quite concrete and visible, would those who committed those violations be punished? No, you wouldn't. We don't punish anyone for anything. Only poor people are punished, people without party cards and those who literally stole billions are not punished, and they will never be punished, and on that side, in my opinion, discussing this report has been kind of missed. Here are several examples of responsibility in Croatia, the former president of the HDZ and former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader was indicted in 2010 for extracting 70 million kuna from the state budget through FIMA MEDIA, has he been convicted, after 9 years? It's not. It's been found that I don't know it, that 15 million kuna was extracted from HEPA Dioki, has he been convicted? It's not. He's been released. It's been determined that I don't know about 17 million kn stolen in the Planinsk affair, is there a verdict? There's no verdict. So, there's an exclusively inadmissible verdict or there's a liberating verdict, possibly if someone gets some punishment, then it changes for working for the common good, the stew is potatoes, I don't know, what, nursing homes visit, etc. You say the Zagreb Holding doesn't operate properly, so in 2015, the indictment was filed, for I don't know the damage of 20 million for the Agram case right in the City of Zagreb, even for a few days the mayor was arrested, was the first-degree verdict taken? It's not. Will she be brought in, will she, when the mayor's dead. Just like this Kristina Komsic died, it is now the verdict that someone is guilty of attacking her, when that verdict no longer makes any sense. In European case-law, first-degree decisions should be taken within a few weeks, any trial lasting more than 5 years is considered a violation of human rights. The trial doesn't even begin after five years. Did you follow the trial I don't know Mr. Vidosevic, 33 million kuna pulled out of HGK, was arrested in 2013 today in 2019? There isn't. His associates, penitents, said two weeks ago that they had brought a million euros to his table, on the table, into cash. And what's the penalty? Such a sanction that Mr. Vidosevic, the same as Mr. Sanader, the same as Mr. Bandic, can run for president tomorrow, they are completely innocent people. Now let me say, they're criminals, I'm going to have a slander suit. That's what we do in our country. But when she is, in person, in the village... 84 years old, she made a brandy, and the decision to bake a brandy was not a powerful one, because it had to wait 15 days, since she was given permission to be able to do so, then the IRS came to her on her doorstep. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, she took away her brandy and immediately charged her fine on the spot. Well, you see what our criteria are. It was supposed to be done, not to Mrs. Doll. Kovacevic than should have done to Sanader, Vidosevic, Bandic, Horvatinčić and all of these whose trials we look at indefinitely and will never be over, it would then be justice equal for all and it would actually be the only possible justice. Now here again 10 minutes ago, says Mr. Horvatincic was convicted, how long was his trial? Seven years and is he going to jail? It's not working. Does she have a right to complain? There is. So what's really changed? Nothing. They'll still do everything, like he's done so far, throw a little dust in the eyes, as we've judged something, we've done something, but in fact, it doesn't change anything, and that's why citizens fall into the abbey. Citizens fall into despair. People write to me, literally, day by day, Mr. Bunjac, in what way do I give up Croatian citizenship? To give up. So they not only, they don't want to live here, they want to move away, but they literally give up Croatian citizenship and that's the problem. And that's why this report of yours doesn't interest anyone but you who gets paid for it and who's in the interest of it, etc. Look at this assembly, 10 people, people who have, I don't know, gross salaries of 30 thousand kuna, who have a whole series of benefits, I don't know, paid directors, travellers, apartments, etc. It's not a hot meal they're interested in. Because it doesn't matter to them, because they know I can do whatever they want, they're not afraid of you at all. They don't even know your name. I guarantee half of them. And you should have some authority, you'd change the state of society, unfortunately the State Audit can't. The problem is at this Croatian Parliament, which creates a legislative framework, that irregularities, illegalities and all the bad things that I have listed can be done uninterrupted. Did you read how Mr. Sanader, a million-and-a-half kuna he gave for plane tickets, for himself and his family, paid for everything in cash. We literally carry money in bags from one end of the street to the other. And that's what you can't determine among other things, maybe you could have some other powers and that's what all Croatian citizens know and that's what basically destroyed this country. Destroyed. Croatian gentlemen, because of corruption today, literally dies in front of our eyes, and for this corruption, it is guilty of knowing who, the party she created, is the party holding one hand on our chests and the other in our pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131062	We have a replica on your exhibit, colleague Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131063	Thank you, esteemed colleague Bunjac, for saying at the end that the great problem in the laws passed by this HS is and it seems frustrating for everyone. Well, I'd ask you, this HS is a few days ago, you were here with me, it's passed the State Audit Act, but it's, they've adapted to themselves, so, as they see it, it's, in your opinion, petting your eyes so that the ruling majority would say here, there's going to be a State Audit, and in fact, it gave them nothing, no instruments, any malts, not nearly I could drink coffee, so why it's being done, who it is, if someone in that People's Bank is being protected, do you believe that everything is right there and what you think these people from the State Audits would come to do what they need to do, what they could do there all together, which we can expect from it, here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131064	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131065	Thank you, well-respected representative Lovrinović, so the State Audit even knows and has found that the state of shipbuilding is a disaster, that we see, we read from the media, so a billion euro is only in the Shipyard in Uljanik has a dubiosis and what will be done? It will be undertaken that every Croatian citizen must give 2000.00 kn out of his pocket to resuscitate it, so these are the results of the State Audit. Here are the Croatian taxpayers pay for the damage done by Zoran Milanović with Ivan Vrdoljak, and it was completed by Andrej Plenkovic with Ivan Vrdoljak, that is to you and you can now determine that it is 7, 8 or 9 billion, the debts are ultimately paid by all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131066	We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Pernar, please welcome colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131067	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the State Audit, I asked you the following question, how is it possible that the State Audit gave a positive report on the financial operations of the HDZ at the time that the DORH claimed that the party had financed and spent money past the account or when there was a large amount of money that was not recorded and which the secretary then handed over to the DORH, how is it possible that until today, the State Audit had done nothing about this? And imagine which answer I received from you, says this, that it is prescribed that the revision within the meaning of these laws conducts an examination of documents, documents and reports, internal control and internal audit systems, accounting and financial procedures, and other records to determine whether financial reports show true financial position and results of financial activities in line with the adoption of accounting principles and accounting standards. So you say this, look, we're looking at the documents they're giving us, they wrote us that everything is okay, that the books, that the situation in the register is what it is and says everything fits, everything fits, here, we have the State Audit report. Be careful what you suit me, you say that a review report has been drawn up and that HDZ business has been positively assessed since 2007 and 2008 and 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, I have no doubt that it will be 2018, but what I want to say to you, be careful, this is the craziest thing in your report, the verification and the determination of facts related to the submissions, is not in the power of the State Audit Office, so you're not even checking it out, or determining the facts that they tell you, they wrote to you that, I don't know, that they have three monkeys in the safe, you would enroll have three monkeys in the safe, no one would go to check it. Be careful now that you answer to me, in the event of any subsequent finding that the financial statements are incorrect, the audit report shall not be invalidated. So, even if you later found out that you were all lied to, the State Audit report is still, what, positively, is asking for a State Audit that anyone who's negative or who's the mule in the report is responding, so there's no need when the audit report is positive. Let's move forward, watch this, the State Auditor has no obligation to carry out any audit procedures related to financial reports after the date of the audit report or to carry out additional audit procedures on matters which have not led to satisfactory conclusions. So, even if you found out there was a hoax, that's for sure. to know it was just you have no obligation, you don't do it. And listen further, watch this, watch this, says, by carrying out those activities, the State Audit Office has fully fulfilled its obligations in accordance with the powers. Here, you have it, it's all by law, you've done everything great, you're even boasting that others are estimating you, the state is failing. But what was particularly interesting to me in your report is when you wrote that it was not clear to you what time or procedures were related to asking mine. It means that simply, I will read it exactly as you have said, from my submission, there is no indication of what business year it refers to, and the statements made by the treasurer by the party of the former head of accounting and other witnesses, about the fact that there was money in the political party's register that was never recorded anywhere. So, what's going on, what the trial is going on, what the witnesses on TV say they were doing that they were carrying money that wasn't recorded, etc., it's unknown to you, you first hear about what I'm telling you, you're surprised. He says, you mention, Mr. Pernar some testimony from the cashier or the cashier, statements from the accountant, statements from the secretary of the party. Mr. Pernar, we don't even know what time you're talking about, who does that even apply to. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the business of the State Audit Office. And you expect to get a positive opinion from me or I suppose you don't actually expect it, but this is how you do the review, for me, it should change everything together. You don't care about these millions who are sucked out of state-owned companies for which there are witness statements, material evidence, after all, money. You say, the review is done, it's all neat, the papers are buried, and the fact that something else was subsequently found, you obviously don't see the problem. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131068	We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is my colleague Stephen Curaj. He's gone, so she's a colleague of Sabina's Voice. There isn't. He's a colleague now, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131069	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, distinguished state auditors with associates. Well, I think that this second part of the debate today certainly went in the wrong direction, on one document that is completely in line with all those documents that we've already discussed during this year and last year because the State Audit Office rarely even has the right to say that they've missed, as they are now trying to suggest from a colleague who's found mistakes in everyone, just not himself. And he too was noticed by the state audit by both his party and his sitting on two chairs or membership in several parties, muttering with 100,000 kunas and everything else and of course he had a need to shake out on people who are doing their job neatly. They've noticed these people, not only who sit here, but all these 221 that in the system of state administration, political parties, there are gaps to which they make their remarks neatly, give their recommendations because it's their only task. It's not their job to judge on the spot, to impose fines on the scene, and to lock people up, as some MPs here wish. Simply, a lack of understanding of what they read or the badness they perform with, to defend some of their positions. The 2018 audit report is proof of the work of the state audit in 2018, all of these 300 people who visited many institutions and formed their own opinions, i.e. The opinions of the revisions that have already given us through a number of acts, and this is one summary that we are having today, which in the first part was really correct and professional, but in the second part, we have seen, even in Ustashas, Partizans, Bleiburg, Churches, it is simply impossible that they do not mix it all up, to find 5 minutes of space for themselves and to insult everything unless they are inclined to do so. We've seen that if voters don't vote for you and such, they're offended that they can't read, notice or know anything. So, such discussions should be heard, but certainly not taken as something that needs to be taken too much care of. She clearly wrote what she observed in 2018, when she looked back at the financial two years, 2016 and 2017. The first thing they saw was financial audit, secondly, efficiency audit and thirdly, conformity review. It is their business and every local leader, every head of the state administration's body knows that at some point surely the audit can announce its arrival and ask for insight into all the documents they need to look at, in order to draw up an opinion on how certain local self-government, public enterprise, ministry or any other body that we have been notified of very extensively in individual discussions, when we have topics, I don't know, the revision of political parties, the revision of the work of local self-government, the revision of this or the revision of it. 4 types of opinions are clear, evidence or indication of how to observe what they have noticed. We have an unconditional opinion, a conditional, unfavourable and abstentional and clear record of how it comes to them, that it's not the personal will or desire of an individual auditor and he says I don't like you, so here you are, unfavourable, right? So there is a process and very clearly demonstrated, as well as a methodology on which opinions are given. And all of this underestimation of the people sitting here in front of us is below every level of parliamentary representation, or let's call it that, People's Representative. What they've noticed, it's up to all of us to try to fix, first of all, everyone in all the part where they participate or manage local self-government or any other body of government. Or do it to comply with the law, to be better in the second revision or second observation than it was in the first. This attempt by some to defuse the work of people who really do it at a high level without a lot of space to get a different opinion is, I say, once again below each level. We've seen, it's clearly shown here, very summed up, because if we put all these 220-acre audits that have been done, it'd be a lot of thick material, which they certainly have in their office, i.e.. in the space where it is kept and all that is given can either be looked at or requested. When we look at all the levels, it is clear that it is obvious that the state is somehow standing there, perhaps the best, that local self-government is a bit of a helmet but that it is probably being repaired because the fact is that they are still found, and those who simply cannot meet both the least criteria and get the most unfavourable opinions, some of us have heard something about them, sometimes it is written about them as a result of their work, that health institutions have a problem, these are debts that need to be resolved that within that system it is not even easy to act legally, simply respecting all the positive regulations of this country, that the Red Cross societies are obviously a little relaxed and that they need to strengthen their own activities in terms of compliance with the laws that should be harmonised and that political parties also have a failure. I say when we mention them, then they disappear because they're dissatisfied with someone noticing that they're doing something they're not supposed to do, 100,000 kn they're spinning, they're having a party seat in their living room and of course they're looking for someone who's supposed to blame them for it. They sit in several parties and, of course, who should be to blame them, the one who noticed them, it's the State Review because without them, it would work quite well. When we look at the segment in which the State Audit in 2018 worked, let's say the allocation and use of current donations from the budget, it may sometimes seem to be one small segment of the operation of local self-government, regional self-government, but the fact is that there is a lot of money in that space and it is good that you wrote to everyone what you noticed and how it should be fixed. Here I am the first to give this material to my services to be read in advance, to be read in advance so that they do not sin and to be in harmony with all that they should do if they are not already. It is simple, indeed, that every year we have the right or privilege to discuss what is being observed in the system and where an additional accent should be given when it comes to the work of the whole, I say states from central to regional to local. And just the question of monitoring the use of funds clearly suggests where the problem is and what should be strengthened that these funds are used more and more. Of course, I'm saying, we're always trying to notice just everything that's negative, never what's positive, what's good, but I think, with the efforts of the people sitting here in front of us, we can say that there's trust, complete trust means, in what we write, in the financial reports above all, and that everything that's written down, records from local to central level, has all the level of accuracy and transparency, and that there's not much more to hide and that simply each of us chooses to take responsibility for his part of the work he's doing but in accordance with the law. Here's so much from me and every commendation on this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131070	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Let's get going, he's the first respected representative of Josip Djakic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Boric, you have well established what the work of the State Audit is, that it is correct, professionally and professionally done work, but you have also seen well that those concerned with a negative finding or a finding in which it is spoken in what they did and did, and preferably it is illegal, so they have recognised themselves, so now they have brought down all the salvo of negativity to an institution that actually does their job properly and professionally. They, in fact, defile their fingers in the party life that has been exposed, speak clearly today about what the work of pro futuro State audits was or whether they were wrong but it actually concerns themselves because they are characterized as such and have admitted it. But that's not why they're responsible for the State Audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131072	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131073	Thank you very much. A colleague, Djakic. I deliberately mentioned it because really, it's hard sometimes to listen to these self-called messiahs, political messiahs that reach when we see in elections up to 2% or 1, no, or 0.5, but they're very loud here and everybody calls them and label them, it's clear that they've been noticed but the problem is whether the other part is not an audit, but whether the DORH did his job because they're telling those we know are, here in this case, when they get into the system. When something is noticed and the process starts, then they talk about it, the problem is that there is no procedure and we know from the campaign, from the pre-election campaign, the famous yellow envelopes, the people who have paid large amounts without having received and everything else we have had the opportunity to hear and see that there has not been another level, the revision has made this expectation of the revision that they are the one who does all this and on the spot is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131074	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131075	Thank you, dear Vice President. Fellow Boris, that something is wrong with the system and the way the audit works, tells us that we are at the bottom of development in the EU and that we are at the bottom of the most corrupt country among EU member states. I believe that the great impact of the State Audit is precisely in this work and that the opinions of the State Audit, I am not only speaking in this composition of the revision but from the beginning, since the beginning of the Republic of Croatia, is not working in a good way because that audit and what the revision indicates has its weight, then we would not have these results, at the bottom of all indicators among EU members. I think the State Review should have far greater weight and the measures it should express should have far greater power and I think only then would these parameters fix it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131076	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131077	Thank you very much. My colleague Lenart, I don't agree with your opinion, they do a really good job of their own, and when they finish their work, they write here what they send further to another body, and what they leave behind, means that those who run certain bodies work alone and in the end I think every opinion of the audit ends up on that other body again, so if there's something that would lead to what you're telling corruption and everything else, it's certain that this other body, it's the State's attorney's office has all the tools to start a certain procedure and it's not supposed to create big stories, because the fact is that every body leader or local or regional or regional and state level has a lot of relations with respect and accept almost everything they say because they know it's true and that it's based on the law, and their own reflections in the way that you present them, in no way they agree with my thoughts. about your country. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131078	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131079	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, my fellow Members, I agree with you that this report is indeed correct and that further work of the State Audit Office should be encouraged, among other things, so that the business of all those whose budgets are filled with tax bonds is as legal, more coherent, more transparent, and, among other things, after each supervision, one finding and opinion are ultimately given and deadlines and is precise in which way and what needs to be coordinated or removed. Among other things, if the State Audit has seen irregularities that would refer to the initiation of the criminal offence, then the State Attorney's Office is informed and continues to take over the case, but in this HS are the loudest ones in whom either the State Audit or the Inspectorate have the most irregularities and you give yourself the right to call everyone and everyone. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131080	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131081	Thank you very much. Comrade Uncle, let them call, but the fact is that someone can ask them a question, too, based on the audit findings. And if they were reading when we talk about the recommendations that the revision makes, there's a graph on the page. The 34th di clearly shows from 2013 until 2018. What with the recommendations they were making is happening and, most of the time, we can say, there's been a growing and crossing some almost 70% of the time, so the State's review has been going on in its own findings, so there's no one who's just going to easily ignore what they wrote, but of course, there are those who miss out on such things and of course they have nothing to be surprised at in the second finding that they haven't done something right, they've probably gotten better, and they've quickly explained that they're still doing everything in accordance with the law, and that they have extra money that they'd be very happy to share, and even returned if they've already illegally Take it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131082	The next replicas of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131083	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Boris, I have listened carefully to what you have said and this may be an opportunity to say that the State Audit is doing a good job. So that's where you have to look through this report, the state of the report and what they've come up with. So, the State Audit is doing its job, you see progress in all of this, you see the changes that have taken place, and that's what's important. The fact that when someone gets the audit report doesn't like what it says in the revision, it's a topic to fix it, to change it and to take care of it, but what's important is to look through all those reports that have been through the years and to see progress and that's what's actually seen and what's progress in the new State Audit Act and what we really appreciate, and that's not that it's no longer a dead letter on paper when the State Audit finds something, but it's going to be consequences. We're on behalf of the club in a few, so, when we had the chance to talk about the State Audit, every time we were for A report and spoke affirmatively about it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131084	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131085	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak, I think that, here we are at the same level and indeed today we have had a nice debate from these last few MPs who have tried to make it bad for some of their own reasons, but the fact is that whatever is written is exactly the same, you have the right to give your comments, if you agree and say you'll be better and you'll be doing it differently by the year, then it's up to you to do it and not to wait for the next finding and say anything, I'm back where I was four years ago, etc., etc. And that's how time goes by. However, the state is increasingly pressing, so more and more institutions are highly organised and professionally available to local regional and national levels, that everything they do, do as it says in the law, and that there is no extra space, everything is seen, and everything is quickly found today, there is no hiding.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131086	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131087	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, you said some of them fell asleep, played a little bit, so the State Audit found out and warned them. However, what should always be stressed that this State Audit report is a factual situation. So the State Audit came to someone, looked at the documentation they put together, someone didn't like it, it was his problem, he had a chance to make a preliminary report and say what he didn't agree with. But when the final report comes, it's like that, but you don't agree with what the State Audit finds out, and at the same time attacking someone else is simply out of your mind. However, what I have come to you for the replica is these relapsers. I think that in HS no matter what political options we are from, in all our discussions we should highlight those who repeat mistakes because if we don't, if we don't eliminate them, then unfortunately this quality work of the State Audit will be disabling because if someone constantly repeats the mistakes And nothing happens to him. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131088	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131089	Thank you very much, so, Mr. President, so, fellow Schucker, I think that here we are, and through the amendments to the State Audit Act, we have sent a clear message that there shouldn't be a lot of repeaters or those who repeat mistakes because some of these mistakes are now going to be a little different from what your job is, and that's that you're making decisions but in accordance with the law and that you're going to implement everything you need to implement in accordance with the law. It is clear again that the State Review is a body that notices, gives recommendations, does not punish, and does not judge or give or does not determine the years of imprisonment, for this there are some other bodies in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131090	Thank you. We will now move on to the closing words and first, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, will finally speak to the respected representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131091	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, it's a little dry air, so I had to take a sip. When we talk about the State Audit report, what is important to say, and there is no need for colleagues from some parties to get too excited but to try to understand that things in Croatia, in some parts, and especially when it comes to public money, should function transparently. It is clear to me that HDZ, for example, could not understand that, given how HDZ works during Sanader when counterpart Bacic was both the secretary-general and everything that went along with it, but I'm surprised that these new parties that are coming in more recently don't understand and that they understand everything in a way that political persecution or that they are working against them means that when they are all enemies, then there are no more rules than anything that is against you, it turns out that they are doing it because of some political motives. On the contrary, I think that colleagues from the Living Wall should try to use the State Audit to assist them in this part of the formation of party finances, because it is not easy to do any work in life and thus not run a political party and everything that goes with it. I'm not saying that there were some conscious malfeasances, but there's no need to understand the way a fellow living wall understood it. So we from the SDP Club support this report, but what we don't support is that some of us are setting up, now I think from a ruling position, a Pharisee and unprincipled towards their coalition partners or members of their party, as is done by HDZ who is here and in this report a prominent colleague who does amazing things is not being fenced by anyone but is expected by Prime Minister Plenkovic to decide whether or not he will be in a party or not, and that is where the president of the HDZ County Organisation belongs, so we don't hear or hear about whether it's okay or not. So as long as we operate like this and all of our mouths are, otherwise there is no replication of the presentation of the club of representatives so you have to see little Rules of Procedure before you engage in any discussion at all, but then we listen to colleagues from HDZ who praise all their mouths the review report, and it determines literally the failures that require a reaction from the State's attorney and no one and no one says on this matter to their colleagues other than his colleague Grodana who then said that Prime Minister Plenkovic will decide what will happen to this colleague and whether he can continue to be a member of HDZ or not. Or on the other hand, you have a coalition partner Milan Bandic who is the concept of non-transparentity and non-compliance with the rules of conduct and what the revision determines and his audit report on the use of external services in companies in local self-government units where of the 35.6 companies that have been analysed, it is convincingly the worst city of Zagreb. 800 million kuna is spent annually in a non-transparent, inefficient way, and no one is objecting to it again or on this side. So it is one thing to praise fellow Boric and colleagues from HDZ State Audit, de facto with a fig in their pocket. Let them work, we will praise them, and what institutions do not concern us. The partner who is with us in the government that we hold in the city of Zagreb does what he wants in Holding, spends money untransparently on all sides, citizens pay the most expensive taxes in the Republic, and 800 million kn per year and asks how it is spent and whether it is effective or not. And out of 36 companies, what has the highest capacity, both human and human and human, and everyone else, is doing the worst. Here I expected from the ruling coalition that praises the State Audit to say a few sentences, where I expected the HDZ of Koprivnica Crossing County to say, to be fenced by the one who is the worst in this report but not by either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131092	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the respected representative Felak, in which is the injured Rules of Procedure, which article, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131093	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, where Mr. Maras used this debate to insist on calling HDZ Koprivnica-Kristevska County, purely for correction, I am not the president of the HDZ Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, although I know that you were thinking of me because there is no one else from the HDZ from the Koprivnica-Crysing County who is here. I think you used your argument in the wrong direction and you're accusing us of something that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131094	Comrade Felak, of course this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to abuse that institution. I'm not going to start warning right now, but I'm asking everyone in advance not to abuse that institution. ... You're giving up? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You got it. Okay. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131095	That he was injured in 238, so there's no mention of the direction in which the debate is going, so you can't call it Article 238. But another thing that's been hurt here, so there's no anger, because someone commended you, and here I commended Mr. Felak, that the president, I even promoted him and the man was angry. [[I said it wasn't, that this one.]] Well, Mr. Schucker would probably be pleased if I said the president of the Zagreb County of HDZ, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131096	My colleague Maras and you and I know that this has nothing to do with anything, so I'm asking you nicely now, from now on, for such things I'm giving notice. Okay, deal? Abuse of the institution injures the Rules of Procedure? Now, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131097	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the State Audit. So we're supposed to be here today, at least a little bit mention, I don't know, 10 and 10 billion kunas, which are not intended to be spent, literally stolen, but we can see that colleagues from the SDP, I don't know how they turned this story back into the story of Ustashas and Partisans, about Bleiburg, what does it have to do with the State Audit, with all that big and vaporized money, they only know that. In order to end up still, these discussions themselves point out that the State Audit should be dealt with by the Living Wall. So of all the bad things in this country, I don't know, that we've lost 25% of the population, that wages are miserable, pensions, this, the lowest in the EU, that I don't know the decline of shipbuilding, agriculture, that we don't have enough police officers to hear from the National Security Committee today, MP Maras says that the problem of this country is the Living Wall. So that's what the party's representative, who hasn't been able to pay his debts for 10 years means millions of debts, can't pay their bills, and then here we go, salting our brains at the end of the debate on the State Audit. Well, Mr. Maras and SPD agents, we bought 400 children's bags from that money we get from the state last summer, and we invited you to buy at least 1, I bought from my salary four, and I shared the children I've seen for the first time in my life. You didn't buy no bag, you didn't buy one pen. Now we have divided nearly 500 thousand kunas to single mothers, which we have given again, we representatives of our salaries and that money we receive from the state, for the sake of protest, for solidarity with our people. And what can I get you? You give a million kunas to Alex Brown. A foreign citizen. At least we get those taxpayers back, which we get from taxpayers, and you give foreign people, foreigners, just like HDZ gives info to the institute, I don't know what all that money is spent on. So call on your senses, so basically you simply can't help but hold back from the people who destroy Croatia. So you have now found a problem in Branimir Bunjc, here's who's to blame for the situation in Croatia, because please next time, Mr. State Audit, teach me carefully, this, quite certainly, if I leave this House or Croatia, Croatia will flourish, it will be a wonderful country, where MPs will be reduced, I don't know Felak and Maras, Culej, Stazic, then they will certainly be very good as it is called to all of us. So a completely missed performance, not to say it's a one-out show, but given that HDZ and SDP are, in fact, two wings, the same birds, we don't need to be surprised. I would just like to say for the end of this debate, that the State Audit report, nothing concrete, nothing important in the Republic of Croatia, will change. The problems are here in this High House. It is necessary to change the electoral system, simply limit the mandates of this local administration, to 2 that there are no life-long mandates to which we testify on a daily basis, we have to address the issue of public procurement and public procurement, so long as politicians decide on public tenders, until then only people who are similar will be hired. Until then, a public tender will be opened only after it is decided in advance who will be employed. Until then, only suckers and honest-mindeds, who will never get a job, will appear in public tenders 200 times, I know people who have reported 500 times and have never gone anywhere. It is necessary to pass a law on the origin of the property, which the Living Wall has already written and is already here in the procedure, but the Presidency of the Parliament insists on putting it on the agenda. It is necessary to abolish the custody accounts, in translation of the secret accounts, to see who these people are, who have become rich according to their incomes. How is it possible that the representative who carries the list for the HDZ character has a blocked account and carries a 60,000 kuna watch? These are the illogicalities, not these accounting investigations, the nonsense, which we read in the media every day, which we know how to lie anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131098	Thank you. Comrade Maras, you've caused a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I hope it's a real breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131099	Absolutely. So, my colleague Bunjac hurt 238, bringing up a whole series of untruths here, because we're just discussing what you said at the end, our colleague Bunjac, we're not discussing HDZ crime, we're not discussing dozens of billions that have been stolen over the past few years, but we're talking about not being able to get three MPs, because if we had 30 MPs, there aren't enough parties in Croatia, over which we would have received the money, as you received through the alphabet of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131100	Okay. Here, now you've exceeded your time, and since I've announced in advance you're getting a warning. I thought you were going to say something that he completely wrongly said, and that's not on the agenda of theirs, the point they suggested, it's on the agenda, but there's allowed to say all sorts of things and false things, etc., it's just not to be offended, is it, a lot of people are telling the truth, right, so I would conclude this debate and we'll vote on this point when the conditions come down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131101	The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2018, the applicant is the Chief State Auditor, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion, the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2018 is hereby adopted. I find that it is unanimous 80 for, the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131102	And now we'll move on to: - Final proposal of the Wine Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 430. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. We can keep it down a little bit. I know the point of wine must be like that, but let's concentrate. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Art. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, dear Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear ladies of Parliament and parliamentary representatives, the Ministry of Agriculture joined the preparation of the new Wine Act in November 2017, and after intensive consultations with producers in the wine sector in the first half of 2018. continued to make this law. The consultations were conducted in order to exchange views and better understand the requirements of the manufacturer. The final proposal of the Wine Act is adopted for the purpose of first and for the consolidation of EU rules with national legislation in the wine sector. In fact, one regulation will now link areas currently governed at national level with two laws, and this is the Law on Wine and the Law on the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products and specific measures and rules relating to the market in agricultural products. The final proposal of the Wine Act regulates the legal framework and implementation of 7 of the EU Regulation in the area of production, trade and protection of designations in the wine sector and aromatised wine products. In relation to first reading, the proposal for a Wine Act in HS in the text of the final proposal of the Wine Act is incorporated into the provisions that ensure the implementation of two new regulations published in January 2019, which are outside the scope of the Commission Regulation. 607/2009 of 14 July 2009 In the case of designations of origin, geographical indications, traditional terms, marking and presentation of certain products in the wine sector with all amendments and additions. In addition, Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2006 establishing a European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 (EC) No 2111/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1088/2006 establishing a European Parliament In addition, the Commission’s Implementing Regulation (EU) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. laying down rules for the application of Regulation 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards applications for the protection of designations of origin, geographical indications and traditional terms in the wine sector. The final proposal of the Wine Act also lays down provisions that ensure the implementation of Regulation No. EU Parliament and Council of 26 February 2014 on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of flavoured wine products. The final proposal of the Wine Act shall regulate the competent authorities for the implementation of this law, the geographical area on the cultivation of vine vines, grape vine varieties, oenological procedures and practices, the wine register, the quality testing system before placing on the market, the system of protected wine labels, the production of fruit wines, and the supervision and control of production and transport. In addition, the new Law on the Winery and Vinekeeping System introduces new elements, so I will list them: All fees for the control of the place and traffic are abolished where around 12 million kuna is returned to the wine industry for their needs and activities. Furthermore, in order to protect consumers, increased control of the production and transport of grapes and wine is ensured with a view to curbing the gray market through the establishment of clear competences in the control system carried out by the Agency for Payment in Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development, the control system carried out by other bodies, the State Inspectorate in Production, Market and the Ministry of Finance in Export and Import. The management of registers with the Payment Agency, and the rights and obligations of users and law-holders through detailed registration in the vineyard register of all stages of turnover from grapes to wine sales in the catering facility. This provides a necessary prerequisite for increased control of the production and transport of grapes and wine with a view to curbing the gray market which has been identified as one of the main problems to be addressed in the law-making process. In addition, decentralisation of procedures, organic assessment of wine by wine regions involving producers with the aim of bringing the assessment system closer to producers. Registration marks shall be removed and assumptions shall be created for the establishment of a marketing marking of 4 vineyard regions. Four vineyard regions are also established, a new one, which is also the basis for promoting marketing activities of the wine sector, which are Slavonia and Croatia's Podunavlje, Croatia's Istria and Kvarner, Dalmatia and the Central Bank of Croatia. Furthermore, the recognition of 4 regional and wine-making organisations related to new regions with the aim of giving producers the right to manage promotional and marketing activities related to Croatian wines is foreseen. Finally, the adoption of the new EU regulations of January 2019 establishes a system of preliminary national recognition of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications in wine. Additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, amounting to 10 million and 12 thousand kuna, have been planned for the implementation of this law. In order to disbursement the wine sector from the imposing total costs related to fees for the issue of a solution for placing... traffic and fees for issuing a labelling solution... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the designation of the controlled origin, not charged by the manufacturer and settled directly from the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These costs are estimated at around 10 million kunas already said, and the system of registration marks is further abolished, the wine sector is further relieved by the further 2 million kuna of the cost of the system of registration marks. This further relieves the sector of this form of parafiscal intrusion. This creates a total discharge of around 12 million kuna sectors, thus freeing the wine sector from financial resources that can be channelled into funding planned promotional activities, the implementation of business organisation in the light of the already mentioned regional organisations, which this Law assumes as a part of the implementation of promotional activities, especially in part of the marketing labelling of Croatian wines. This, together with the final proposal of the Wine Act, creates a new legislative basis in the wine sector, as well as a new wide area for the manufacturer's action, both in promoting the protection of wine, branding Croatia as a wine country, and promoting the quality and speciality of Croatian wines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131104	Thank you very much, most of the representatives present in the hall have come forward for your presentation, so let's take it in a row. The first is Honorable Representative Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131105	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. He would ask one particular question, in Article 22, states that natural and legal persons who possess an area planted with vine vines, vineyards, have an obligation to report to the paying agency the existing area of vineyards they possess, and their decommissioning or new planting, for the purpose of registering the vineyard production potential of the Republic of Croatia, and then in Article 23, states who is required to register in the vineyard register, so my question is whether they are all required to register in the vineyard register which is the owners of any size or number of canees, or are such, or only those who register wine production and release for sale in the vineyard register of wine and wine production potential of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131106	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131107	Thank you. I would like to thank Mr. Felak's distinguished parliamentary representative for the matter. Therefore, the vineyard register includes the registration of all wine producers, musts and grapes. Those who produce for the market must, therefore, report their surfaces as well as, for a record purposes, as well as for the transport and control of wine in the transport of wine, and all others must report their surfaces in order to record the same and, to that end, may affect the gray market which, of course, creates problems with the producers themselves and wine production.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131108	The next replica of the esteemed representative, John Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131109	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The parameters show that the production of wine since 2011 is becoming smaller and smaller, the grant financial assistance for raising new plantations is a circus of 83 million a year, and the grapes are produced on increasingly smaller surfaces, the gender reeds are getting smaller, nature is getting smaller and less wine is being exported, and more and more imports are being imported. Two years ago, a Circa 3.6 million litres of wine worth EUR 10.5 million was exported, 30.9 million liters were imported, and the value was EUR 30.8 million. So compare this data that tells us everything, and it's all clear. Whether our wines are too expensive in other countries and Croatia, regardless of unquestionable quality, are not commercial.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131110	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131111	Thank you. Here, thank you for bringing out this information, I'll bring out those available to the State Statistics Office in 2017. According to the State Statistics Office, wine imports in 2017 amounted to 26 thousand 845 tonnes worth around EUR 29 million, quantified imports decreased by 13.14% compared to 2016, and are worth a decline of 6.83% compared to 2016. At the same time, exports of wine in 2017 amounted to 5 thousand 138 tonnes worth EUR 13,10 million, with a quantity of 42,44% increase compared to 2016 and a value increase of 24,43% compared to 2016. The trend in export growth continues in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131112	The next replica of the respected representative, Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. This Wine Act has greatly sought to simplify the solution of administrative procedures that I will discuss in my debate, and I have given an amendment in this direction. Thus amended and reduced the conditions for the recognition of producer organisation in respect of vineyard areas to at least 33% or at least 25% of producers. I am now interested in what will happen if, in one area, within one region, for example, the banks of Croatia that are a wide area, two organisations with 35% of producers and 35% of surfaces are reported, and so there will be one organization in the north, for example in the area of Međimurje, Varazdin, and the other in the Zagreb area. Are you going to confess to both or none of them?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131114	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131115	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Krizanic for asking the question. So, the law has prescribed the definition of four regionals, so, organisations, the Ministry of Agriculture with, together with institutions will work on the promotion, we are already going to promote, meaning, defining, organising and joining winemakers in these regional organisations, as well as criteria for recognising them. If we invite everyone to a merger in one, if this happens, listen as you have stated, we will invite them to a merger and we will recognise a united producer organisation in the area of a region.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131116	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131117	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. So I'm going to say that this is a long-awaited Wines Act, frankly, I expected one more comprehensive approach to such a significant agricultural culture as the vine and we got a law that mostly refers to harmonisation with certain EU regulations. Maybe it shouldn't have been part of the law, but I'd like you to give me a little comment on the problem of vineyards in 11 Croatian counties and that's the problem of golden jaundice, says the most dangerous diseases of the vine vine in Europe. I know there's a certain order, but if we have any plan to prevent it, do we have any financial resources provided for it, because here we have recently the Law on natural disasters, we also didn't mention it with a saying, we don't have it, unfortunately, either in the Wines Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131118	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131119	I also thank you for the question, that is, one part of the finding, that is, the situation that the Ministry of Agriculture and the competent institution has already seen and taken in the fight against golden jaundice, so the order for repression has been issued and, on the other hand, along with units and regional self-government. The Ministry of Agriculture also carries out certain activities to address this problem more comprehensively, here I will highlight the example of the Istrian County where we have covered all the national and agricultural areas under the vineyards and are going to combat this pest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131120	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131121	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state, I believe that the law is well written and that it covers everything relevant to the production of wine from the cultivation of vine vines, the registration in the wine register, the geographical origin of grapes, musts, wines, designations of originality, the establishment of a national wine committee and, of course, the promotion of these wines themselves. Four regions are also foreseen. Slavonia and Croatian Podunavlje, Croatia Istria and Kvarner, Dalmatia and central banks Croatia. Now I am not sure that for the north of Croatia is the area of Međimurje, Hrvatski Zagorje, Prigorje, Podravina uses the term central and coastal Croatia. I absolutely support this regional approach, but I think that one north would be welcome here, or at least if you could tell if you contacted wine producers... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131122	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131123	I also thank this issue here, which we have heard often, means in the debate in the first reading and during the debate within the Committee on Agriculture that the proposal of the regions that are contained and in the final proposal of the law is primarily a professional basis but it is consulted all with producers and in this part means a strong request by the producer for names for all 4 regions so that the producers are consulted and their opinion has been translated into this legislative framework by the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131124	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131125	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, and we from HSS welcome the adoption of the Wine Act, especially when it comes to the administrative and financial discharge of our winemakers and vineyards, but there are some inconsistencies already mentioned, which is this division in 4 regions because it is obviously not well-communicated with all winemakers because they oppose it, and Zagorje winemakers and Međimurje and Moslavina, not to mention them or that they are within the central banks of Croatia, think they will not be sufficiently recognizable and what is also our objection from HSS is that, in Articles 22 and 23, where you speak of the vineyard register, that even those who have one chocolate, two, five, weekends, that they will have to apply, too, it is simply not recognised in the legislation of Austria, Italy, Germany, which have the lower limit of 100, 200, 500 chocolates, how in which I think you will not be able to register them in the region, because you will not be able to apply in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131126	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131127	I also thank you for this question, i.e. the repeat issue on the regions. This study, which has transformed the name of the region itself, has been working backwards for 4, 5 years, has been initiated by the producers themselves, united in the sector within the HGK that cares for producers, we are talking about producers here and not about that part of the hobbyists, and these are the very producers who have determined and clearly communicated with the Ministry of Agriculture names of the 4 mentioned region.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131128	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131129	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. So here is when you mentioned how collaboration with producers, associations and companies dealing with cultivation and wine production clearly shows through a public debate that I have carefully read and studied where 10 of your acceptances, opinions and proposals as well as 10 that have been partially accepted, it is clear that you have infiltrated in the law everything that was important and that in the first reading itself and this consultation, vineyards as well as winemakers have been manifested in terms of this law, I think it is very commendable that you have considered most of the comments or suggestions so that you have grown the vines, production, chemical-analytical properties, doing jobs in winemaking and winemaking, and have clearly shown that in these segments you have accepted everything and that you have put into this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131130	Thank you. The Honorable Secretary of State has nothing to answer. Okay, and the last replica is the esteemed representative of Dragica Vranesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131131	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State Majdak, here, we have heard from colleagues from the northern parts that this 52nd article is also controversial in the northern part of the Republic, but they think they will have too many organizations, or given the size of the vineyards that are in the area, they think that they will easily gather even two or more of these organizations. On the other hand, the winemakers from my area, the areas of Split-Dalmatia County, they have quite the opposite fear, so I think maybe we should make some difference when we look at organizations in the north and south, so I'm going to say a part of this data that's in favor of that. Through 4 Dalmatian counties we have over 12000 agricultural holdings in total, over 6000 hectares, 11 and 193, so 90% of them have less than one hectare and most of the production on these parcels is for their own needs. They also have a total of over 2800 hectares 45%, respectively, of the surface, so there is fear [[Intruder: Thank you]] that power will not be organised in such an area of deprecated parcels [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131132	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131133	Here I thank you, and in the process of making the law itself, there were also winemakers and winemakers from your area, or the wider area of Dalmatia that they gave, so a positive assessment of this proposal and they suggested certain, meaning, improvements, as well as already, as stated by the parliamentarians themselves in the section after the first reading of Mr Djakić, so that we also reduced this census, meaning, from 50% to 25 and 33% of the surface, in order to enable the winemakers to join in respecting what you said about the small-stained plot that you cited in part and mark not only Dalmatia, but mainly this central part of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131134	Thank you. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the honourable representative Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131135	Dear Vice-President HS, the Honorable State Secretary with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, the current Wine Act dates back to 2003. which has, meanwhile, been changed from nomotechnical harmonisation and due to the consolidation with the EU legislation and national rules in the winemaking and winemaking sector, the basis for the adoption of implementing rules is proposed. In part, the law consumed the opinion of regional wine companies, while in some other parts, of course, they are not consumed and have different views of winemakers from the legislator. For example, some winemakers suggest that complete production, including originality, should be placed in the hands of the manufacturer. Furthermore, winemakers are applying for a model now present through the production of honey and prosciutto, olive oil, that, in addition to state control, processes should also be controlled by independent certified bodies in order to weaken the impact of the centre. They consider that the only role given to wine associations is marketing activities that they can come up with on their own. Powers should be given to producers, so the protective designation of origin should be in the hands of the winemaker. Furthermore, we have very opportunised views of winemakers about the name of vineyard regions, we have already heard that now. That's what the wineries think. Furthermore, a negative trend is present in the areas of vineyards and wine production in the 10-year period from 2007 to 2016. We have 9,000 hectolitres of wine less than or 28%. In the wine trade, an increase in wine, an increase in imports of wine not accompanied by an increase in exports, was observed. 2017 21900 hectolitres of vineyards, hectares of vineyards, and the annual production of grapes is 116307 tonnes and 726 thousand and hectolitres of wine, respectively. At the end of 2017, 39000 agricultural holdings were registered in the register with a vineyard area of 19600 hectares. In the vineyard register, 2,3900 agricultural holdings are registered, and mandatory production applications are submitted by 3729 holding holding registered production of 575000 hectolitres. The Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village has issued a solution for placing wine on the market for 55,000 hectolitres of wine submitted by 1497 producers registered in the wine register. A large deviation is seen in the number of economies that report wine production and which put wine on the market, it is certainly an alarm for the alarm because it is happening not only because of the reduction of interest in vineyarding, but also because of the increasing spread of gold jaundice in the last ten years. This monster continuously, but slowly and surely devastates our vineyards, so the winemakers are tearing up their vineyards because of the inability to fight, and some of them are not raising new vineyards. If we know that no city of agriculture in the last 30 years. not in the technological and qualitative and quantitative sense, but also marketing as winemaking and winemaking, and we further know that it is a culture, that the consumption of wine in the Republic of Croatia is a ritual from which guests are welcomed and the integral part of the daily routine of some culture welcomes guests with coffee or tea, we with wine, wine is a brand that has recently taken off tourism particularly present and important, then these descending trends are particularly worrying. So, these years, in terms of prevention and radiation of phytoplasm other than that of thoring and records of infected and endangered areas, not much has been done. The endangered area, now almost the entire country, and the infected half-dozen majority of the counties under emergency must take concrete measures, specifically. So, for this reason, the education of winemakers on the transfer of diseases is good and that's good, and that's okay, but the prevention of the suppression of U.S. cricket transporters by funding by the state, the state can't prescribe an operational plan, or an order to prevent the spraying of American cricket by insecticide, if that measure itself doesn't finance from the state budget, because the party households can't and do not want to buy insecticide. I have also proposed a concrete measure on the Committee, and now I am saying this publicly, the financing of complete insecticides from the state budget, the distribution of the same through vineyard associations or agricultural organisations, and the control of implementation through communal directors, then this measure can have a result. If we are talking about the eradication of chic and abandoned vineyards of unknown owners, which are habitats of intruders, this must include local self-government with its municipal regulations, but has been defined by the new Agricultural Land Act, only provisions should be applied in practice. Of course, people's awareness needs to be raised, because there is also a human factor crucial to eradicating disease, stricter control of local self-government units and communal directors. On the other hand, the last few years have seen enormous imports of wine from the European Union, but also from third countries, especially Montenegro and Macedonia, in tanks of tanks, which have been repacked and sold without any quality control throughout the country, directly competing with quality domestic wines. I note that our winemakers had to pass the analysis and the stamps before the wine was placed on the market, which generated, which guaranteed quality but also cost our producers. This law changes, and that's good. I note that I personally asked the Committee, the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, and food and village, in 2016, how many inspections excluded samples of imported wine from those in the rinfuze in the tanks. The answer was one pattern. It was believed to the exporting country, so I am talking about third countries, Macedonia, Montenegro, not intertrades, or one European Union market, but third countries can and must be more controlled, given that the European Union countries cannot be controlled in such a way, but that no one is refusing to strengthen the cause. I think there's too much to comment on. Now it has changed, such wine, with greater frequency now being caused, analysed more frequently, and it is certainly thanks to the appeals of our representatives. And now something about a metric. This Proposal for a Law regulates the conditions relating to geographical areas of vine cultivation, permitted vine cultivation crops, protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications, the establishment of the National Committee of Winemakers and winemakers, promotional and marketing marking, and the presentation of wine. A clearly defined framework for carrying out production and sales activities with a purpose of combating the gray market is clearly defined. The process of organoleptic assessment of wine in wine regions is decentralised with the aim of approaching the manufacturer's assessment system and regional organisations are proposing assessors. Assessment at the level of the region. The law provides for four new vineyard regions, Slavonia and Hrvatska Podunavlje, Croatia Istria and Kvarner, Dalmatia and the Central Bank of Croatia, and four new regional vineyard organisations that will be associated with the regions. Of course I'm going to say two sentences about it, because I've talked about it before, and today I can't understand this fourth term. Most winemakers of Varazdinska, Koprivnica and Križevci County and Zagorje believe that in the name of Central and Bregovite Croatia should also be the word of the North, as there are also the most serious vineyards in this region, so, Međimurje, Varazdinština and Koprivnica County from northern Croatia. Some winemakers, in particular from Međimurje, believe that the word is robust enough, while the legislator explained that the concepts of the region are proposed and agreed with the winemakers. A colleague, Strick, was already talking about the fact that these three regions are determining regionality, and this fourth one is not. It speaks more of relief, and the relief of Croatia's banks can be all the vineyard regions in the Republic of Croatia. In order to decommission the wine sector from parafiscals, the total costs related to the fees for issuing a solution for placing wine on the market and for issuing solutions shall be settled from the state budget. The system of registration marks is abolished, and through other administrative measures, the monitoring of the traceability of wine is ensured, the wine sector is released by around 12 million kuna, which is a 33% discharge compared to existing regulations. In relation to first reading, provisions that allow the implementation of two European Union regulations relating to the labelling and protection of geographical indications of wine, and the definition of description, presentation and labelling, and the protection of geographical indications of flavoured wine products are also incorporated. Between the two readings, the legislator also accepted a lot of suggestions from the Committee on Agriculture, and proposals from the plenary session, so, due to the ambiguity, he now assumed precisely the concepts of the EU regulation, such as the winemaker, the wine producer, the processor, the trader, the retailer and the bottler. Furthermore, the reduced conditions for the recognition of the producer’s organisation in respect of vineyard areas to at least 33% in the region. It is also no longer a mandatory organoleptic assessment for varieties of wines. Delete and register distillers, and they are now enrolling in the wine registers in a special base. In order to further simplify the entry into the vineyard register and simplify the administration of our vineyards, I also make a personal contribution with one amendment. Therefore, in Article 25 of the Treaty on European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Functioning of the European Union are bound by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The final proposal of the Law in Wine, paragraph 3 is amended and reads as follows: The paying agency authorised to take copies after registration and delete from the wine register which is also a certificate of entry in the wine register. This Regulation shall enter into The final proposal of the Law in Wine, paragraph 5, shall be deleted. Article 6 is replaced by the following: Explanation: This amendment also amends Article 25 and simplifies for producers the entry in the wine register and does not implement the administrative procedure and the issuing of a solution but the paying agency shall make the registration and erasure of the wine register as part of the register of the farmer’s register in which the solution was previously issued. The wine growing register is an integral part of the farmer’s register and a solution is issued to the farmer’s register and the administrative procedure is carried out and all other registers of olives, orchards and other components of the farmer’s register are carried out. As the farmer’s right was initially decided to enrol in the register of farmers where the farmer entered all of his resources, including vineyards, this simplifies the list of entries in the vineyard register. As I have already mentioned in advance, except that viticulture represents a very important branch of Croatian agriculture, so the production of wine through history marks both visibility and recognizableness, and in recent times and brand and the protection mark of a particular vineyard region in the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely why we are tasked to take care of the preservation of vineyards and in any way to prevent and stop the filoxer of the 21st century phytoplasm or golden jaundice because it could happen that in 10 years today famous wine growing areas or regions of the Republic of Croatia may become chicars or forests because of this disease. In this regard, the protection of domestic winemakers from the invasion of cheap products they call wine outside must be even more effective because they themselves cannot, therefore, increase the frequency of controls and therefore this law is a good foundation, especially provisions on the release of the sector from parafiscal burdens and the detours of these funds into marketing and branding. The HDZ Club will back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131136	Thank you very much. The next club will neither be the Living Wall nor the SNAGA in the name of the respected representative, Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131137	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the subject is to amend the Wine Act, but it is my duty to warn you of the statistics on how much wine was produced in Croatia before entering the EU, meaning last year before the entry, that is, in 2012 and how much was produced in 2017. Let me put it this way, in 2012, wine production was 1.29 million hectolitres, and in 2017 only 726 000 hectolitres were produced. So what we have is essentially a drop in wine production by 40%. And the question arises what caused this fall. Is the cause of this fall the way you label wine or some formal bureaucratic to say the reasons, or is the reason why there has been a fall in the production of wine because perhaps the consumption of wine has fallen, perhaps people have started drinking in these years and are drinking 40% less wine now, perhaps that's why our wine production has fallen. However, I am afraid that it is neither first nor second but that the cause of the decline in the production of wine in Croatia is that Croatia has abolished customs duties on imports of foreign wine and that Croatia is leading such a course policy that makes import goods or import products cheaper than they would be if the kuna course were realistic. In such conditions, our winemakers are simply no longer competitive. I can't explain such a rapid fall otherwise. I can also not explain the fall in milk production which was also 40% in just a few years. Same thing. I, for one, began to avoid drinking milk, for example. However, I am sure that this is not about the general decline in milk consumption, but it is about the fact that domestic production is substituted or replaced by import milk. That's the point of the whole story. And again, there's the question of why. We're going back to the answer. There are no customs duties on import milk, the rate is as it is, that 20% is stronger or overrated than it should be and subsequent import milk is cheaper than domestic milk. If our milkers produce milk, they must compete with the import price and when they level that price with the import price, they simply are no longer worth producing. And if they increase it, then they tell them, look... If you won't give it cheaper milk, we'll import it. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And actually, finally, what's going on? There is a process that I would call collectively devoid of Croatian villages. So you have winemakers, I remember a family from, I think Kaptola or the Great End of Požega, when we filmed them, they have very many children, they have raised a loan for the vineyard, they have as a ransom guaranteed. However, what was more, they no longer wanted to buy these quantities at that price as before, had no one to sell their grapes or wine, and they failed and the bank sat on the property and they are waiting for today's apparition. Same thing with the milkman who sent the milk cows to the slaughterhouse. Now, what about him and he couldn't live more than milk production because I'm explaining to you that the price of milk is such that it's impossible to survive him and his family is also waiting for an operation and then it's a question, it's a famous question for every performer, whether to wait for them to decommission him or still move out and now you tell the gentlemen of HDZ, so as to respect the law, the law says if you can't get back the credit, move out and what's going on, what our peasants are doing, what's going on with people in the country, ha, leaving their homes, farms remain milky cows closed and their homes are up, they've moved out, the vineyards remain unprocessed and people are leaving their homes, it's politics that are currently in the Republic of Croatia. And this Wine Act that you're discussing today won't solve that problem, you make the Milky Way Act, and it won't solve the problems, and why? So I'm explaining to you because the exchange rate of kuna is such that at the beginning import food is cheaper than domestic and it's not just a problem in dairy, it's a problem in all other branches of our agriculture. That's why we import potatoes, import carrots, import celery, whatever. Here, I'll give you an example, that's what my colleague sent me a picture of us importing onions red from Egypt, imagine now importing onions red from Egypt, I think which way that bow has to go for him to come to Croatian shelves. And watch this, soup green, 500.g., says the country of origin of carrots is from Serbia, kale is from Spain, celery root is from the Netherlands, the parsley leaf is from Italy, large in a variable ratio. So, in order to make the most common vegetable pack for soup, it's she, the composition of that international team, and the logical answer to the question is, if they're not homemade vegetables in that, huh, what about the native village and the peasant? The village and the peasants are both extinct, and what do you do to stop it? What are you doing? Nothing, unfortunately, nothing. Of course, you will say that Prime Minister Plenkovic has a plan for Slavonia and HDZ with Plenkovic will solve problems in the Croatian village. But from the ingredients of this vegetable that I've listed, I don't have that feeling, I don't see that in practice working and I'll never forget when the students came to HS from Djakov, if I remember correctly, and a girl asked me what I think of the Prime Minister's plan for Slavonia? I told her, so look, girl, if in the past HDZ's policy hasn't essentially brought any good to Slavonia, if we see that in the present Slavonia is failing with that policy, what will be the results of that policy in the future? And she told me I don't know. I told her you're the perfect product of our education system that people don't learn to think about, self-conceived, just bifling, and when you show them the logical question where the system has led us in the past, where it leads us now and of course the question where it will take us in the future, these people unfortunately don't give answers to questions and I'm afraid that many in Slavonia can't see where it will take them, and that because of some small interests, they will continue to support this monetary policy that is implemented not only by HDZ, but also by the SPD and HNS and all other parties in HS unfortunately, monetary policy in which the Central Bank has no role of money, but is a currency policy in which loans with currency clauses, monetary policy in which loans are high, monetary policy in which nothing can do to help peasants, except that they still have a loan, this is the solution of the state, and now it's clear that they don't come back to the money, so they can't come to say, when they't go back to the money, or to the money, or to the money, they's, they's, they's to the money, they's, they's to the money, they's to the money, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, I said, they's, they's, and I said, they's, they's, I said, I said, and I said, and I said, and I said, and I said, I said, I said, and I said, and I said, and I said, and I said, and I said, and I said, and I said, and I said, and I told, and I said, and I told her, and I said, and I told her, and I told her, and I told her, and I told, and I told her, and I told her, and I told her, and I told her, and I told her, and I told her, and You know what they're asking you from the Department of Agriculture, what you have to mortgage, that's all they care about. So, it's just important what property you're going to give, you could maybe be given to the bank, and that negligent policy has destroyed the entire village, I also explained on a concrete example of wine production that it has ruined the domestic vineyards. Why do you support her, I don't know, I can assume that you believe maybe she's good, maybe you HDZ gentlemen think that this policy is good, in which case you'd dare say that you're mistaken, maybe you're aware that she's not good, but for some personal reason you support her, that's another possibility, means that, not that you don't know, you're kind of broken in your heart, and the third possibility is that you just don't care, so what happens, you will be. Whatever your answer is, it is disappointing for every farmer or farmer, and that disappointment which you will give him will sooner or later come to his head. I call on the Croatian village and the peasants to understand that while this monetary policy, while this policy in which it is, has to regularly pay their contributions for 12 months, and it can charge its natives only after a year and with delay, it is logical that it will have a contribution debt, it is logical that it will not have them back from where they come from, ha, even the legislator does not care, I mean in every normal country when they see that the import goods will destroy the domestic market and that, let's say, the price difference is 10, 20%, so the logical thing is that the state introduces customs, to make a correction, simply prevent imports of those goods and services that we can produce. I'm not talking about banana or pineapple customs here, we don't make bananas or pineapples, but I can't figure out that the state doesn't protect or I don't know, oil import customs, I doubt that the Republic of Croatia has a large oil production, so now our oil imports are competitive, so now because of this, we don't make our own. No, here it is done, we RH and cars don't produce, I'm not saying that cars should be introduced customs or computers or I don't know what, I'm telling you that we have to simply adapt to the moment and those products that we produce if they threaten to import to kill our domestic production, bring customs, but you are against it gentlemen ruling, and also the SDP gentlemen who, according to the EU Gordan Maras, say, welcome a different parliament or different EU parliamentarian, it writes. So Gordan Maras is intended to be a different Europarliamentary, and what the Croatian farmer has from that, what he will be a Europarliamentary, he cares about what the exchange rate is, whether there are currency clauses on his credit, whether the import food is cheaper than the one he produces, etc. Does Gordan Maras treat those questions? No, she doesn't care. Its goal is to enter the European Parliament, and here Mr Maras, I wish you luck to fulfill your dream, as God has said, bless you, but give something of it, do something about this burning because it does not revolve around a fellow Maras who is not here today, and neither of us here including me, but we are here for others, and unfortunately it seems to me that those others are pushed aside, and that we are here for ourselves and for ourselves, and if it does not change, in the heads of every representative here, the whole country will continue to fail, and the Croatian people will disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131138	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives of the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131139	Thank you, Vice-President HS, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretaries with associates, I welcome all together in the name of the HSS Club and I welcome, I use the opportunity to welcome all winemakers and winemakers in the Republic of Croatia and here, I am pleased to say that most winemakers and winemakers are familiar with the preparation and adoption of this law and it is good to discuss the adoption of the Wine Law with a large number of our winemakers and winemakers and it is certainly to welcome what is to be done in order to relieve the wine sector from parafiscal burdens the total cost of granting a solution for placing wine on the market and for issuing a solution for marking with controlled origin, do not charge from producers and subsidise from the state budget, and to remove the registration marks and to decentralise the process of organic wine. However, we all need to be fair, so to say that we are not satisfied with the sector in, the situation in the wine sector and winemaking, here, we have heard how much over 40% of the reduction in wine production in the Republic of Croatia has been since the entry into the EU. The Secretary of State said that somewhere over 5,000 tonnes of exports, that the treasure is growing, but it also stated that over 26,000 tonnes of imports are also growing from some regions, not from all, but from some. And what particularly bothers us from HSS and our winemakers to grow the import of wine in rinfuze, to grow imports through us of non-quality wines from Macedonia, from some other non-European countries and that we certainly expect a lot of what the State Secretary himself stressed that this law and the implementation of this law will be a good tool for enhanced control in the wine production sector by the paying agency and by the State Inspectorate. And there is certain that there is much more control and control of food practices so far the practice has shown that in the market we have really had everything and many of our producers expected from the Law to prevent unfair commercial practices in the food supply system, so, here, we recently need a report from the Agency for the Implementation of Control and Control of this Act where it is said that they have not officially obtained any negotiations on the implementation of this law by suppliers of trade chains, that 32 items based on an anonymous commercial duty have started the procedure and that unfortunately a large part of those unfair practices have become now permanent practice so that, in order to get the commercial house, the chain, sign a new contract with suppliers, condition some things that are essentially unfair commercial practice, and that the law requires us to do so much of the law, and if we need to get the link to the link to the wall or to the link, the link right now, signed and that part of the goods will be accepted as part of the goods will be paid and that part of the policy will be paid, and that they will be paid as a special place, and that they want to the law, and that the law as well as the law to the law is necessary to the law, and that we need to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law, and the law to the law to the law, and the law, and the law to the law to the law, and the law, and the law to the law to the law, and the law, and the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law, and the law to the law, and the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law, and the law to the law to the law to the law to the law to the law, and the law, and the law, and the law, and the law, and the law to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the the the law of the law Surely that is not good data and that if we want to protect our winemakers from unfair competition, then we must also take care of them in that way. The second where we can certainly help them, which is through various co-financing and other support programmes, other than these administrative and removal of these parafiscal burdens from them, we should see which models we can encourage to plant new plantations and preserve them, the problem of non-financing or, in our opinion, insufficient funding, preventing the spread of gold jaundice or their vector cricket, which is transmitted by this virus, is already foreseen for this year, I mean only 5 million kunas, mainly on the basis of demands from the Istrian County. I have already asked the state budget, and what about other counties, where this, this disease and this pest such as Međimurje, Zagorje, and unfortunately here it appears in Slavonia, in which way it will compensate for the damage if it must be included vineyards in Međimurje, Zagorje or tomorrow in Slavonia, because it is certain that this vector will spread. And secondly, why not act preventively so that the state from its budget is financed by insecticide and ordered to be a state measure, a measure ordered, to spray all the vineyards where this vector appeared. Here, these are models where we can certainly help our winemakers and winemakers, and we missed it in this budget and I am sorry that it is so, and surely our winemakers are expecting in that part of the support because it will certainly endanger the production of grapes and wine in the Republic of Croatia. And what we can also help them with, which is better, better marketing representation of Croatia as a wine-growing area, it is good here that we have divided Croatia into four regions and that these organisations that will be established will also have this role to make marketing models of sales and wine placements from their region, but it is certainly not enough because there is not enough fiscal capacity from these winemakers themselves if they do not involve both local and regional self-government, but also the state, specifically when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja, and Srijem. I think that the Croatian Tourist Board must allocate more resources to co-finance these projects for the development of continental tourism, because we have no surface area, no quantity to compete with France, Italy and large producers of Spain in quantities, but what we can do, which is our quality grapevine, domestic sales, selling through our tourist resources, allow our producers, winemakers and winemakers to have that market. There we missed that chance, but here it is not too late and I think models can be designed as, not only wine from our family farms to be found at the table of these hotel houses or smaller tourist facilities, but also other food products. Also, what I want to highlight is where we haven't helped our winemakers and winemakers a lot, or where we missed the opportunity, and we can still, even Minister of Finance, Minister Maric said that in that entanglement in some additional game, VAT on certain food products will still be reduced to wine. In particular, it is necessary to reduce to that level where we will be competitive in relation to the region, because here I was right when I said that it is not enough to just cut from 25% to 13% of VAT on food products if in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina 10%, Slovenia, we did nothing, and that I was right to say the latest data that increased the number of transfers of citizens from the Republic of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that, based on the official data that we have increased and the amount of finance left by Croatian kunas in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's mostly what agricultural and food products are bought. Here, and I think we need to reduce VAT on food products and wine below that level 10-9% to be more competitive than the environment. I would also point out here the problem of small winemakers and winemakers, I have already said in the replica, that it is unacceptable for us from HSS to continue in Articles 23 and 24, where the register is spoken, practically all natural persons who have one reed, chocolate, panj, whatever the region is called, we have a lot of our winemakers, winemakers who do this hobbyist work, weekenders and so on, that they will all apply to the register of the Payment Agency, according to this Proposal of the Law. Why did we go with that model, when it's practically inconclusive? Who are thousands of such small producers to control you? No resources, no human capacity, no paying agency, no state inspectorate. Then why are we giving ourselves what we won't be able to spend? We bring a law that will be inconclusive in practice, and especially as Austria and some other countries have a minimum under which they do not have to apply, is it acceptable for us, 200, 300 or 100 chocolates, we could talk about it and bring it to the law that these small producers have no obligation to register as potential, because tomorrow, if you sign it as a potential with five chocolates, tomorrow it will cut off some other obligation that our small producer will certainly not be able to accept, and on the other hand, just harass them, anyway, they use it for their own hobby, for their own needs, so that we will probably go to these articles with the amendment that this number will nevertheless be put on the bottom line, we will still agree to colleagues in the Club if we put it on, and I think it is not good to keep any natural and legal person who has to register as a wine that it does not have a potential. Furthermore, Article 57 states what can be found on the market as wine, and then Article 7 states that there can be both must and wine which, which are not made from artificial substances, are mixed with pasta, and so on, so on and so on, why it can be generally stated that it can be on the market, so that it should not be found on the market, in general in Article 7(7), paragraph 7 of Article 57, it should not be placed on the market, or written on the market. In this way, we open the space for paved wines to come to the market, or it is obviously some intention that non-quality wines can still be imported into the Croatian market, so is that what this article says? And I think that in that direction we need to complete this law and I call on the Secretary of State to explain to us what they meant by this paragraph 7 in Article 57. Finally, and this one, of the new Wine Act, is one step where it was wanted to help our winemakers and winemakers, we welcome once again that desire to get through the administrative discharge and removal of these parafiscal burdens, this sector financially disbursed with some 14 million kunas, but certainly it could have been done much more through these measures that I mentioned, and when it comes to preventing the spread of gold jaundice, and through tax discharges of this sector, and through measures and support, and through direct payments. And here I am taking the opportunity to ask what some media have announced that Mr. Hogan, Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture, said that Minister Tolusic is not well, or that it is not the correct information that he stated about the directly paid aid to our Croatian agricultural producers, mentions the amount of EUR 126 million, please the Secretary of State to explain this to us, yes, I think that this is of interest to the entire Croatian public because if it is true, then surely Minister Tolusic must step down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131140	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS, on behalf of which will speak the respected representative of the Goddess Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131141	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. So here's to the final proposal of the Wine Act, once again I have to highlight the great problems and difficulties that our winemakers and winemakers face. For many years, there has been a negative trend in the wine sector, both in the areas and in the production of wine. Wine producers have great difficulties due to the import of wine, have problems due to the gray market, but they have been having big problems lately and because of the golden jaundice, they have already spoken about it here colleagues, and it is good to talk publicly about how this has started to be resolved, and of course we welcome what has been solved in Istria where really large areas have been affected, where it was first affected precisely in the area of Istria, but there are other areas. There are areas of just this northwestern Croatia where the vineyarding is done in a different way, i.e. where the plots are, there is a part of the large but there is a lot of small or those hobby vineyards that we talked about here, without saying that there are many abandoned plots. And there is a problem in which you approach solving this problem in these areas, if you do not provide what has already been said, certain means for these activities. I know, and I'm aware that local self-government units especially in these rural areas, I can't finance the decommissioning of these areas by myself, to ensure the means to prevent it from spreading, to destroy that American cricket, simply they can't, and must move on with concrete measures by the state. We've been talking about it for the third year, but we've done very, very little. And so with everything else that our winemakers are facing, we have this problem now. So it's really high time to start with concrete measures, because I say, units of local self-government that we expected will solve such problems in their area, they don't solve it, I don't think it's a reason that municipal directors won't go out on the ground, that they won't act because simply someone has to pay for it if something is going on, and if certain actions are taking place. So if we take this ratio as it is now that we import 10 times the amount of wine we export, it will certainly be even worse, although we do, here we heard in 2017 a certain increase in wine exports, but it does not significantly change this ratio. The very price of wine imported is EUR 1-o, while this is the price ratio achieved for our wine on our market 1:2.2 which is also a solid price, especially for those who know what they are buying, they buy our wines, and therefore, the price is not as low on our domestic market as it is achieved in exports, but we know that in exports we have extremely expensive wines, let ours who are controlled origins and which we export, and that is good and we need to continue to work on it. The new Wine Act lays down a legal framework for the production of grapes and wine, the sale of wine under market-transparent conditions. At the same time, the role of wine associations is strengthened and the marketing of wine is improved. The new law provides for less administration and greater control on the ground. All the winemakers expect a lot from this law, they've been expecting a lot, and I think there's a lot of them who are happy with the draft of this final bill. Normally, in order for each of them to add something else, he would make an exception if he was looking exclusively from his perspective. However, there is generally pleasure among winemakers and winemakers. The most important features that should help winemakers and winemakers through this law are the establishment of 4 new regions, both wineries and marketing. The establishment and financing of regional organisations, winemakers and national committees is foreseen, the abolition of the registration marks and the establishment of marketing marks, ensuring enhanced control of the production and transport of grapes and wines. At the same time, this law also provides for decentralisation of procedures for organoleptic evaluation in wine regions. Small producers are also included in the system of controls without financial burdens. Among other things, here in this second reading other than what we have provided in the law and the implementation of the European Commission regulations was included in Regulation 273 of 2018 which we had and which was adopted between the first and second readings. This Proposal for a Wine Law allows the association of winemakers and winemakers at regional level to play a more active role in promotional activities and businesses. And that's really important, but if we don't solve some of these things that we've mentioned before, it's hard for us to achieve something with our own promotional activities when we're going to have more and less vineyards and less wine production if we don't do something urgent. The law clearly defines the different framework for the production of grapes for its own needs in a very limited scope and for those producers of grapes, musts and wine produced for the market. It is thus stated in Article 10 who is considered a producer of grapes, must, wine and wine filler. Procedures for more effective administrative control of all data that grape and wine producers are required to deliver. And I hope that it will be from as little paper as possible to make available as much data as possible that we will not go to burdens with additional documents that our winemakers and winemakers will need to fulfill as planned when we have an evaluation of the harvest and such things. It also strengthens the controls on the ground to be carried out by field wine supervisors for the purpose of verifying the compliance of the data supplied with the actual state, which strengthens the system of traceability, production of grapes and wine. When we talk about establishing new regions that are also wine and marketing, we talk about the regions of Slavonia and Hrvatska Podunavlje, Croatia Istria and Kvarner, Dalmatia and the central banks of Croatia. I simply cannot look back on this central coastal Croatia, we have received the answer that it is harmonised for winemakers with HGK, with their section, to really carry out expert analysis, control, or suggestions that have been delivered and that this is accepted as what is most acceptable. We have also received the assurance that the winemakers' associations are from our area, that is the area of Zagorje, Podravina, Međimurje satisfied with this name, central and coastal Croatia. I believe that and that is why we will support this bill, but we must admit that both I and my colleagues from the club in this part of our area when we talked to our wine producers that we didn't come up with such information as we got. But here, if this is really the position of the Chamber of Commerce, our HNS winemakers' associations will support this law. At the same time, wine control shall be decentralised prior to placing on the market as close as possible to the wine regions, the production and transport of grapes shall be arranged to control the quality and control of the gray market. So there are no more unregistered wines on the market and unfair competition. So according to the winemaker's proposal in this law, it is arranged that organoleptic control of wine will no longer be carried out only in Zagreb but will, for example, be carried out in Zagreb. wine from... evaluate licensed sensors from that area while wine from Međimurje or Zagorje will be evaluated by sensors from that area, including winemakers from that area who are licensed for that evaluation and they know this wine best. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This also ensures that the quality of the evaluation is raised and thus that the wine of a particular region is recognised. What we in the HNS Club particularly welcome and what is recognised by the winemakers is an administrative discharge of 33% on, and greater control on the ground, it is certainly what is very, very important in this law because in order to disbursement the wine sector opens fiscal burdens, costs related to fees for issuing a solution for placing wine on the market will no longer be charged by the manufacturer, but these costs will be settled from the state budget. The estimate is that it's about 10 million kunas somewhere. If we add a team of 10 million kunas to the amount of savings planned from the registration stamps that have so far been required to mark wine, the total savings for our winemakers is 12 million kuna. If all of this is invested in winemaking, marketing, and all of this is helped right through the urgent solving of the problem of golden jaundice, I think that we will be completely solving this problem and that the winemakers and winemakers will only then be satisfied. The HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131142	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate, the first one should have been Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131143	Thank you very much, President. Dear secretaries with their co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, a miracle that in the country, are we late with laws or I don't know, or we haven't protected it, but it's amazing that, at least it's unclear why we've been in the Republic since 2012 since we joined the EU, so far we've had a decrease, so, wine production, Croatian domestic, that's odd, that's under one. Secondly, we boast always by increasing tourism, so the results say that our tourism has been increased, and we have seen that the revision has said that we are simply at the bottom of Europe and it is known for the withdrawal of funds, but the ministry should have some financial envelope to promote winemaking once again, I repeat, instead of growing domestic wine production, we are falling, at the same time as we have entered the EU as a larger market, we have all the conditions and resources to develop winemaking throughout the Republic of Croatia, tourism increased, I don't know if the ministry, the secretary could answer, thinking in this direction that as a very important, it's not the production of wine, that through some financial envelope, through some kind of wine-based fund, will be to destroy the number of wines that come from our home. I would like the minister to say that they have some kind of measure or some kind of short-term, not long-term, but short-term measures that, through certain financial support, will, through some kind of financial help to the winemakers to survive because we see that the rapid decline in wine production is domestic. I would like to get that answer from the minister who is very important for the production of wine and the development of this activity, however, I don't want to have the need to answer it, it is a key question if otherwise we will have abandoned olive groves and vineyards if we don't primarily produce wine, I'm talking about Dalmatia now, so is the continental part, if there are no incentives, but incentives that will be, incentives towards produced, and not to someone to apply, he hasn't seen a vineyard as it looks like he's getting a boost like the case of numerous incentives in agriculture where they go who knows who knows who and who knows where, so it's weird, so that's why, here we should look at the result, since we joined the EU, less 40% of wine we produce. If we have numerous funds, numerous possibilities through various measures and European funds, and I believe that the ministry here should take measures, that we should have a financial framework to encourage the production of wine of domestic, if we see us on the market, I know, in my area come wines from other parts of Macedonia that are cheaper, which are much cheaper and invaluable, means simply people give up on the production of that wine, of course, the triba aid and those areas depending on our territories and areas where it comes from to brand certain wines, to be recognizable, brand brand branded, and not to be under various names of wine that are simply and have no contact with our regions, it is simply sold to them under that name, the triba protect domestic wine, so wine, domestic production, is it must be the main, it is an additional value of tourism, it is not only what the tourist came if we sell less domestic wine than we have before. Therefore, I expect the ministry to protect the i.e. If they could help, as I said in the financial envelope, and that triba under emergency work, or else we'll lose all the wine, here's what I'd like, wine production, I'd like the secretary to answer these questions, if there are any measures to stop and collapse. The dying of wine, and all the laws won't help if it's like this, so the financial framework as it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131144	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative, Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131145	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj, here, you have well noticed that we have a drop in wine production despite a significant increase in quality of wine in the last 25 years. in the Republic of Croatia, despite the increase in tourism because each tourism minister boasts a significant increase, a significant increase in tourism revenues, the number of overnight stays, the arrival of tourists, and yet we have a decline in consumption. There's a question of whether or not a barrel is released somewhere, whether or not it's leaking somewhere, so we have wine coming in that isn't recorded, and it's not produced inside the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid this elimination of stamps could contribute to that part that even better paste domestic wine production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131146	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131147	I would absolutely agree that this is unclear and I do not see an explanation or a ministry and an explanation as to how it is possible that tourism i.e. The number of tourists is growing rapidly, which is good, however, is the fact that we of tourism essentially have no additional value if wine production is reduced. So less wine is being sold, less wine is being reduced, so we haven't protected our domestic wine, and on which side of the market comes wine, or which is why our own Directives listen obediently, so the wines from Serbia, Macedonia, other countries are uncontrollably, I have nothing against the market, but above all, it would prefer domestic wines and it is domestic indigenous production, and I think it would tribalne along with these accommodation facilities these beds that our owners still have and this one, since it has banned them from half board and pension probably can't give any more wine. As a matter of fact, we want to deliberately prohibit the production of wine from being used by the laws. wine with our tourists. Because I don't see any other way, I don't see any other explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131148	Thank you. The next one is now going, the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with Associates, so here is the Final Proposal for the Wine Act and for the purpose of compliance with the EU directives as well as the regulations in the wine sector and we see that it is absolutely good because two other amendments to the European legislation have also been made to this second reading of the law and so that the final proposal of the Wine Act is governed by the legal framework and implementation of 7 in the EU Regulation in the area of production, trade, protection and in the wine sector and aromatised wine products. What is important to say is that the final proposal of the Wine Act is governed by the competent authorities, i.e. The competent authorities for the implementation of this law, geographical areas of vine cultivation, wine variety, wine grape varieties, oenological procedures and practices, wine register, quality testing system before marketing, protection system for protected wine labels, production of fruit wines, and control and control of the production and transport of wine shall be governed. What is absolutely commendable is what is being abolished by this new law and the traffic control fees are being abolished, thus reducing 12 million collected from these checks and in order to protect consumers, ensuring enhanced control of the production and transport of grapes and wines in order to curb the gray market through the establishment of clear competences in the control system, in the system of controls carried out by the State, State Inspectorate, which is carried out by the Ministry of Finance in the import and export of wine. In fact, what is important to say is that through this control I have absolutely noticed that there are even stronger standards and criteria in the law than there are in the EU, so the wines that are imported will probably be subject to controls and there will be no paves on the market as they are now in large quantities and they are significantly lower prices than those that would satisfy our wine producers and are in fact disproportionate to what is invested in wine production. the cultivation of vineyards, grapes, etc. I think that there is a rabbit in that bush and because when a man has no cost-effectiveness then there is no reason to deal with the vineyarding which is an extremely difficult job for our winemakers, as well as winemakers, and I think that there needs special attention like this law, and those who have spoken clearly said that they support and that the law is one step forward, perhaps not a huge one, but it is certainly enough to improve the state of winemaking and wine growing. Although we see that many of our hilly landscapes, especially where we live in small vineyards are being released and are no longer being treated and the interest is being reduced. On the other hand, there are those who multiply vineyards and who have their own success on the market, produce high quality wines and are stimulated through the measures set by the ministry. We believe that all of these, as well as the introduction of a register with the paying agency, will contribute to the simpler keeping of records as well as to applications in the register of winemakers and winemakers. So also the rights and obligations of users by law through detailed registration in the vineyard register of all stages of the turnover from grapes to the sale of wine in catering facilities. It will clearly define who what and why they sell. And today it's regulated, but this is a much better option that comes before us, and I think this second reading has significantly improved the first one, as well as the comments that are respected, as I have said in one replica through dozens of accepted objections in public consultation as well as in part accepted tens is included in this second reading of the law, and one amendment that will significantly improve what else is missing. Decentralisation, in fact, has been decentralised by the procedures of organoleptic assessment of wine in wine regions involving producers with the aim of bringing the assessment system closer to producers. So this evaluation many times, everyone has to come to Zagreb to deliver their samples, by three samples of each variety to be evaluated. Many times it gets crowded, and in time there is no solution for winemakers so that they can put wine on the market, and there were many problems. We hope that this will be avoided and that those who evaluate the wines will be more correct and quality assessment will be given. They are abolished as already said in the registration stamps, four new vineyard regions are being established. I hope that there will be enough hearing, reason how the winemakers will join in this regional commitment and through it will act, present, make a marketing performance, mechanize, help and perfect vineyarding and winemaking, that it will be a really good move, there should be enough reason, style among all and I hope that all together through these four regional, commitments will be made and four associations that will work and be useful for our winemakers and winemakers. Of course Slavonia and Hrvatska Podunavlje, Croatia Istria and Kvarner, Dalmatia as well as central coastal Croatia. Perhaps the central coastal Croatia should have said the central northern coastal Croatia so that these should be satisfied as well. But I still think that vineyards don't grow on the Drava, so brugishly, hillyness is a descriptive dimension that talks about where vineyards are planted because there are better conditions for planting, there are fewer frosts, there are fewer damages that occur in the plains. If we were vineyards... planted, as far as I know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The recognition of these four regional wine-making organisations is foreseen and I think it will contribute to even better quality wines and that our quality wines will eventually be pushed out by those who actually possess our shopping centres and with cheap non-quality wines that meet our citizens will certainly be exclusive on the Croatian and world market as they already are. By listening to winemakers who have won half the world already with their products, they have welcomed this law, they have all said that this law is very well done by them, that they are in constant contact with the Ministry, that by harmonising all legal norms and European standards have come to such legal solutions as will actually benefit our winemakers and winemakers and, of course, by allowing them not to pay what has been mandatory so far as to mark the wine sector, it is further taxed for two million kunas, the wine sector, and I believe that this will be used in marketing, in additional production, in what I know mechanization, to help through various aspects in this difficult sector earning money through winemaking and winemaking. I think this law is a good step forward for our winemaking and winemaking and I welcome it personally and I think it should not be speculated about it but should be brought by consensus to make it full and to begin to apply it as soon as possible because, through it, the cultivation of the vine vines and the production and chemical organoleptic properties defined as well as the doing of works in winemaking and winemaking are clearly defined through this law. I believe that even those who have left their vineyards and under the Law on Agricultural Land must not be wasteland, realize that they should put this into operation otherwise the units of local self-government as well as the inspections of the ministry will be in the function of preventing the leaving of our vineyards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131150	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131151	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, colleague Djakic, we from HSS welcome every reduction in fiscal and parafiscal burdens to all agricultural producers, especially winemakers and to simplify the placing of their product on the market. We thought that until now the state should have financed those stamps because it is in the interest of the control of the circulation of wine. Whether it's gonna be taking down the stamps well or not, I don't know, but it certainly shouldn't be on, weight, at the cost of the manufacturer. I'd just say one sentence that I've heard in your speech that won't be paved like so far on the market. Do you have any knowledge that the wines have been placed so far and where they came from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131152	The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131153	Well, since I do a bit of winemaking and winemaking with some 4.5 acres. I see how much to invest in production, i.e. in the cultivation of vines, in production and then in the final product and how much on the market can be obtained. Those who sell a liter of wine below some real price on the Croatian market, I think they are pastors because these wines should surely experience control because there is not enough in them I believe the ingredients of grapes but something else. Because it's not cheap enough to make good wine.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131154	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131155	Comrade Djakic, the vineyard is looking for a servant, not a master. And to get a good drop on the table, it takes a lot of love, a lot of work. And listening to today's debate in the context of this law, no one has mentioned in principle what is important to Croatia as a tourist country, and this is to regulate the wine market, that Croatian wine comes to tables, that tourists who come to Croatia drink Croatian wine and that this law is one more step in protecting those who are legally working and legally operating and producing wine, but I repeat that we are not discussing today, we are discussing how many wines were produced in 2012, as in 2017, let's compare the data and say why, however, the basic purpose of this Law is to protect those who are legally and correctly working, as well as to drink Croatian wine on tables in Croatia as a tourist country, and not some other wines that are not in the same quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131156	Thank you. Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131157	That's right, fellow Shuker. Tasting various types of wine in the tourist offer throughout our Adriatic where it is most trafficked, so I would say even foreign wines. It is noticeable that our wines are far more quality than those that come from imports and in that bush I think a rabbit should be controlled as much as possible in those who import, regardless of what labels they carry, we have the right to do so, Croatia has the right to have a quality domestic drop on our shelves, in our catering facilities, in order to be a food supplement and to refresh and make our people happy. Not to poison ourselves with what is actually below any price as a first, and second, the safety of quality does not correspond to what it says on the declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131158	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Domagoj Mikulic. And I'm sorry, uh, First Honored Representative Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131159	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with my associates, and I warmly welcome you all. From these discussions on the Wine Act, I think it is clear that a quality proposal for a law that harmonizes European legislative practice with practice in the Republic of Croatia, and I think it is right about wine, that it went far in that part, which may be a little restrictive for our producers, but should ultimately give good results, because the same rules of play should simply be introduced on the Croatian market as they are in, throughout the European Union. In any case, to welcome it in this Law, what colleagues have already said is that, so, the area of wine production is being relieved from some 12 million kunas in various parts, with various solutions, certificates and stamps moving on to the burden of the state, and I hope that these 12 million kunas will really be focused on what is stated in the explanation, which is the promotion of domestic wines, also helping to organise these regional winemaking organisations, and that through that our winemakers will have indirect benefits, because they will not have to invest in, say, so much of their own resources in marketing than will be made from these funds that are released here in the state budget. Also, here we are already talking about many problems that affect our winemaking and allow, I will say my thinking about this drop of production or the amount of wine that has been recorded with us to export in 2017, let me express some doubt about this information because I think that looking at this general view, that the number of these small wine producers has fallen, but appeared on the market of many medium and large wine producers, it is simply not clear to me, and so far some fellow representatives have expressed their skepticism towards this data, how there has been such a huge drop in quantity, recorded quantities of wine production. There may be some others, other channels where one part of the produced, produced wine ends, but I find it hard to talk about it, I have no data, but I say looking around what is happening, happens to leave small vineyards, but there are also a lot of new young producers who plant large quantities of cane, hectares, use EU funds, use funds from the incentives of local self-government units or regional self-government, and I think that there is a lot done. I will also touch one, one potential major danger, which is the golden yellowery of the vine, which is spreading in Croatia, and I think that there should be much more active and only the Ministry, and all those who are stakeholders of that, that part of the production of grapes and vineyards, that it should be much more actively accessed and much, I would say more and more aggressively, because it's just happened that a lot of vineyards have recently been cramped and that, I dare say without some big control because simply, they're infected with that disease and people can no longer produce wine, and then they don't dare even plant a new plant because there's no real solution for them again from some abandoned vineyard that won't come near that American cricket and carry that disease, I think it's one problem that the Ministry should be more actively concerned. I also spoke in the replica, and I mentioned this, meaning Article 22 of this Law, which requires the records of the wine growing potential of the Republic of Croatia, and that all producers, or all owners of the vineyards, regardless of the size, one cane or more, have to register in that register. Perhaps we should find some solution to include these producers with some kind of automation and inform them that they are included in that record, so that they may eventually come forward if they are not satisfied with how much they are said to have, that they have reeds or quantities, quantities, this, hectares of vineyards, because it happens that these situations have changed a lot in relation to what is going on in the cataster or garland, and that people simply haven't changed it, and we all aim to introduce one order at that, and I am absolutely for that, but most of these are older people with small quantities, and I think that my colleague Vlaovic was talking about it. And it is hard to expect them to come themselves to report their 100, 200 reeds and there are plenty of them and they are potentially subject and punished because in Article 98, if I am not mistaken, the penalty is also prescribed for natural persons from 500 to 3000 kuna. So I think that's where people like that should be helped, and I'm sure they don't want to avoid any of their legal obligations, but they just don't know about them and it's hard for them to do that. As far as importing wine itself is concerned, surely we cannot pair wine imports with some large barriers, control is absolutely necessary but we ourselves are aware that by entering the EU simply what comes from the EU is not subject to any special control. But I still think there's a lot we can do. And I also agree with Mr Djakic that it is simply amazing that wine can be sold at some prices below any producer price in the Republic of Croatia and I am confident in the vast majority of EU countries. So these wines are very questionable qualities and the question of whether they're even wine. Here, I'm gonna tell that old joke from one of our wine-growing neighborhoods where a dying father tells his son a big secret that wine can also be produced from grapes. Well, I'm afraid that unfortunately there are wine like this on our market, and there is much more control to be expected, and I hope that this law will not solve it in itself, but it will allow those who should be doing it, inspections, agencies to do it properly and to remove such wines from our market. And then we can really talk about who's competitive, who's got quality wine, the quality of wine in Croatia has increased, that's for sure in the last 10 years, 15 years, and we need to work on it even more. It is not ultimately the amount itself so much or the priority but that we have the highest number of quality wines, protected wines and then we can sell those wines at a much higher price than these less quality wines that come to us from some, from some countries where the incentives are obviously quite different and can produce them at much lower prices. And only in the end will I touch these offers in four regions, in the first reading I advocated that this region be called central and north-west or north-western Croatia. I am convinced, meanwhile, that the winemakers have agreed to this name as central banks of Croatia. Talking to some of their winemakers in their neighborhood, they're not familiar with that part at all. But I hope that it will be well processed marketingly and that wine will be recognized from both these north and northwest areas because it has been much invested in the development and planting of vineyards and wine production in my knowledge of recent years. So here's hoping this law will pass and I think it will bring a lot of good just what I'm afraid of, which is, it's making rules because this law is already bound by a large number of regulations and basically this law without those regulations is not enforceable in the work. So I hope that these rules will be passed as soon as possible, because only in this way will this law be able to revive fully and give the results we expect from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131160	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Domagoj Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131161	I thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Felak, not only does this law relieve our winemakers and winemakers but it also encourages them and it was here from another assembly and asked about additional mechanisms and funds for our winemakers and winemakers, so I would like to point out that the National Programme of Aid in the wine sector was adopted at the beginning of this year by 2023, which is worth 55 million euros. The same programme is maximumly adapted to this sector and the situation in this sector and all of our winemakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131162	Dear Representative Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131163	I thank my colleague Miklulic for this question. You've got the numbers, I won't repeat them. In addition to these opportunities for the use of EU funds, most of our counties and a good part of the municipalities and cities that have opportunities in their budgets have also had certain means to encourage and have had before to promote vineyarding in their areas. And I think that it is precisely these funds that have raised a lot of new vineyards, it has been invested a lot in the technology for the processing of grapes and the production of wine, and that is exactly what it has been doing to make the wines in Croatia today far more quality than they have been. And I say again, I think that part of it can be invested even more and I personally know a few younger vineyarders who are preparing to plant more, more vineyards, and that these funds will certainly help us to have even more quantities under the vine line and thus more wine production.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131164	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Domagoj Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131165	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Given the statistics we have heard today and we have them in the winemaking and winemaking sector, and the fact that this current law dates back to 2003 since it had only less corrections, I believe it is very important and important that the ministry has decided to draft a new law because as a member of the EU we have joined both the common market and the common policies, which is necessary and to bring these European and national regulations into line in a complete legal framework. It is necessary to make a turn in this sector, it is necessary to start a new approach mainly because in 2009, we lost more than 10 thousand hectares of area under the vineyard, production of grapes and wine almost halved and the age of vineyards and vineyards is growing and we cannot be satisfied with it. We cannot be satisfied with the great growth of import wines, today it is said that we heard over EUR 30 million a year and our winemakers are essentially having a hard time fighting these import prices. It is also partly due to the fact that our wines are because of the quality, price and higher price class than the import wines that we import at a price of approximately 7.5 kuna. And that's why it's necessary to charge our winemakers more financially, which is what we do with this law at about 33%. The discharge I am talking about is reflected in this law through the abolition of the fees of putting wine on the market which generates savings from around 12 million kunas and precisely those 12 million kunas is returned as an investment in this sector through marketing activities aimed at better positioning our winemakers and branding 4 vineyard regions which this law recognises. The law also provides for the recognition of 4 regional winemakers’ organisations associated with these 4 regions as one good basis for the active role of winemakers and winemakers themselves in managing promotional and marketing activities precisely with these regions. Since we have a highly non-compliant data center and wine register, when we talk about the number of producers and the number of liters in wine transport, we are justified to doubt the credibility of the data, which suggests that a good part of our wines is essentially in the gray market area. And just through the traceability of production and greater land control, we will have a clearer insight into production capacities as well as better control of wine on our market with the aim of curbing this gray market. We recently adopted the National Help Programme in the wine sector, which until 2023 provides support to our winemakers of EUR 11 million per year for information campaigns, for co-financing of investments in wineries, for promotion, for the purchase of equipment, etc. I'm sure our winemakers will know and use it. Our winemakers and our wines are appreciated, our wines are rewarded, and the purpose of this law is clear, to help them get out easier to market, to control the traceability of production and activities on the ground, and to build 4 strong wine regions with significant marketing activities and investments and position them on foreign markets. With this law, we are essentially setting preconditions with which I am sure that we can also achieve a change in statistical indicators that today in this sector are not satisfactory. In the end, we all aim to make winemakers live better, to make winemakers live better and make more money than their own wines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131166	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be co-workers of Sasa Djujic, gone, losing his right to debate. Then, the next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Pernar, gone, losing his right to debate. So then the individual debate will be the next respected representative of Mark Welligaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131167	I thank the Vice-President, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected secretary of state with associates, here at the end of this I will say no and too long debates about, in the second reading, about the Wines Act as I said before, I expected simply more because since 2003 we haven't really had a new Wine Act we've had a few amendments, we've got now of course all of this which is stated in the law, so I'm going to say no one can be against it, but if we could have more certainly this one because we honestly have to tell the most of it concerns compliance with EU regulations. I was expecting perhaps, of course, to welcome this formation of 4 regions, and I believe that it will be one model that will not only be aware of decentralisation in one marketing and administrative sense but rather that we will go towards strengthening these regional organisations, that we will actually give them one, one real authority and that they are actually in time strengthening and becoming what they are imagined to be, and that is to be actually bearers of the development of complete winemaking in those areas. I have to, since I come from this area to look back on this name, which here we have not defined most nicely at the end of central coastal Croatia, I know there are winemakers who may be a little less important, with those with whom I have spoken it is a little more important. I also said in my first reading that maybe we should have, that the Ministry of Agriculture because I remember then in the e-consultation it was that we didn't get a different proposal from the winemaker, so let's keep this one, that maybe we should try to hire some PR agencies that would give that one area that's pretty heterogeneous. If we look at this 4, if we look at these remaining 3 regions at the level of the Republic of Croatia, so Dalmatia, Slavonia, Istria are much more homogeneous, but this is one area that includes Zagorje, Međimurje, Bilogor, Moslavina, which is not as compact as these other regions. But here I believe that this will not be an obstacle to a more serious one and, one real development of wine tourism in this region that I have to say has an extremely high potential, in this region it's terribly invested, there's a lot of new ones, of course, as in all regions we have problems. I, for example, come from Krapina-Zagorje County which is kind of specific to these smaller properties, even if we have 3 we are in Croatia for this number of vineyards at least we don't have that area. So here are some things that may be, perhaps, different from others. All that's mentioned in the debate is actually true. The fact is that we produce less wine, which in one part should not be bad if we focus on quality, if we choose these wines, of course, to find market rights to place them, primarily of course for our tourism potentials, but also for foreign markets. The fact that we have, of course, in accordance with that and the less processed areas, which is then one problem which is, which is also communal, the fact that certain lobbies are also responsible for having these increased imports of wine from foreign countries and that we haven't found what is mine, perhaps the biggest problem, that we haven't found on the right model of helping small winemakers, is that, it's true that we're partially dispensing them, I still find it insufficient because you know that this is a large system and will always take care of ourselves in some way, and the small winemakers are always left to themselves and they actually need a stronger help here from the state level, from the local level, and this should be better defined by this Wine Act. As I mentioned earlier, the problem of golden jaundice which is such a crawling problem that comes more and more, there is, appeared in 11 Croatian counties, we did not mention it anywhere in this Code of Wines, we did not even mention it in that Law on the prevention and mitigation of the consequences of natural disasters that we also discussed and adopted in the end here in HS, so we did not take it seriously with this one problem that really threatens Croatian vineyards, we did not make a plan for any broader education of winemakers on how to prevent it, nor any clear programme of prevention, meaning, the transducer of gold jaundice, yes, exactly what you said to the secretary of state, yes, you did that command, but I did not see anywhere financial funds secured through your budgets that would actually be able to implement that command and in practice. It is clear that procedures should be defined, that local self-government should be more actively involved, given at the very first moment through the control of these, to control, therefore, vineyards, and then that local self-government through its agricultural directors, through the communal offices and through the legal regulations that should be made to actually have, to allow it to simply, to prevent what some kind of habitats are, and golden jaundices, therefore, these are the most frequently abandoned vineyards, these are some schizores, etc., so there should also, in this direction, also, some things run. Here, I'll say it all in all, it represents one small step forward, certainly it is, but given how long we don't have, once again I repeat the Wine Act, yet we should also respect these new developments, give more because here among the winemakers there is still one dissatisfaction, there's one feeling that we should do more, maybe we haven't gone to the happiest start with this law and you know that it was in e-consultation, there in the summer months when the winemakers were already preparing for the harvests, that they didn't really get involved in that first step where they could, and that's e-consultation, so maybe we should have been there a little more careful and a little more care and a little bit more when the law began, maybe from those who actually produce wine, from those who live from it, get even more concrete measures and suggestions that we could also fit into this law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131168	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a brief statement will also be made by the esteemed Secretary of State Tugomir Majdak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear Parliamentarians and parliamentary representatives, here, thank you for your comments, guidelines and mostly general positive reviews of the Final Proposal of the Wine Act, which brings much positive for Croatian winemakers and winemakers. First of all, he has been recommunicated and negotiated, if I may say so, with Croatian winemakers and winemakers and in this direction has been built by the Ministry of Agriculture in a partnership relationship. I would just like to remind myself, as it is pointed out here, that the total disbursement in the winery or winery itself is primarily 33%, which means they are providing funds in the state budget to relieve winemakers and that is a major contribution to development, meaning, future development and promotion of Croatian wines, or the wine sector itself. In the second part of the measures themselves, it was a little timid here, but the Ministry through the envelope itself, the wine envelope, the colloquial programme of the national aid to the wine sector in the past period, and in the future, a new wine envelope for the period 2019 to 2023 was adopted by the Government. With around EUR 55 million in this five-year period and in early April, all competitions for all four measures will be launched in order to allow this sector to develop through all four measures and, on the other hand, through the rural development programme and measures dedicated to winemaking and winemaking, there are additional injections across the EU. I agree that even in the part of suppressing the golden jaundice, the ministry is making efforts, seizing resources, and in the coming years we will try to increase these funds and bring this pest down to a minimum, or to successfully contain this disease as it is in neighbouring countries. Here, these were, so the basic messages that you brought here. As far as just one more detail on the inquiry of individual parliamentary representatives is concerned, not that there is no limit to the lower limit of entry in the vineyard register,... By regulation or by sublegal act for, regulation... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is defined at 50 m2, where all vineyarders must report, so their surface if it is larger than this volume. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I hope that I have managed to answer most of your questions and highlighted all the important things that the new draft law or the new Wine Act brings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131170	Thank you very much. We still have two replicas. First, he's a respected representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here at the end of the debate I wanted to highlight good co-operation with the ministry and in the context of the fact that in this package the wine manufacturer's discharge that the aromatised wines are included. This primarily refers to Samoborska Bermet and that they are involved with these measures, so, here, I wanted at the end of the debate to point out that it was also done in good cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131172	Thank you very much. After this patriotic remark, we still have a replica of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131173	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. That when you see the first reading of this law and now this Final Proposal of the Wines Act and in this second reading you actually see the changes that have been crystallized through the debate here by you. I'm mostly talking about art. 6th, Art. 10., decentralized this one part which is very important for winemakers and as far as I know, and in conversation with winemakers, they commend it themselves. There's only one problem left. 52nd, what were we talking about? Perhaps once again to be explained and to be heard from you, as from the secretary of state, what can be done in certain areas, here, specifically in small wine producers, say in the area of Imotska krajina or vregorska area, which actually provides them with an art. In 52 and how and how they might be best organized on this matter. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131174	Thank you. Yes, the answer of a respected secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131175	Thank you. Here, first of all, thank you for asking. On the subject of the local association of wine producers, i.e. winemakers and winemakers, the Ministry of Agriculture opens the possibility of association, which is what we support, and we single out the significant EU funds in the producer organisation. We have several initiatives in the area of Croatia, a registered winery association is existing and it has applied for EU funds, so we propose further cooperation through, above all, motivation, animation of local producers from your area, the ministry will be a partner to join them and to withdraw funds and to promote their wines and brand them, here through this kind of organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131176	Thank you very much. I will conclude the debate in this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131177	Final proposal of the Wine Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 430, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate was concluded, the amendments were divided by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Josip Križanić and the Club of Representatives of the HSS, and I would like to ask the representative of the motion to be seen about the amendments submitted, with us the respected Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Let's take it in a row. The first is the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131178	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131179	It becomes an integral part of the law. The second is the amendment of Josip Krizanic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131180	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131181	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the third amendment of the Club of Representatives, there are, there are, there are two, there are three, the first amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131182	The amendment is not accepted, according to the requirements of the wine association, a marketing study has been developed on the meaning of the design of the identity of Croatian wines and four regions have been defined, as proposed by law. Slavonia and Hrvatska Podunavlje, Croatia Istria and Kvarner, Dalmatia and the Central Bank of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131183	There's no one here, so we have to vote, so the government doesn't accept the amendment. He didn't get the votes he needed, so we're going to the second amendment of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131184	The amendment is not accepted. According to the horizontal regulation of the Regulation on the registration of the use of agricultural land, the vineyard register and its link to the ARCOD system are regulated. That Regulation lays down a minimum area for vineyard plots of 50 m2 of such area shall be considered a vineyard and shall be recorded as the vineyard potential of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131185	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed, so then he puts the final proposal of the Wine Act to the vote, and I thank the secretary of state. I find that 80 votes are unanimous for the adopted Wine Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131186	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as appropriate. 247. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Economy, proposed that we conduct a joint discussion on the next 6 points. Do you agree with that proposal? It is, therefore, no one is against, all agreeable, so we can then bring together the debate on the following laws: - Proposal for a law amending the General Product Safety Act, with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 579; - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Alternative Dispute Resolution, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 575; - Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consistency, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 580; - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on electronic trade, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 577; - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Transport of Real estate, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 576; - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Trade, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 578. I would immediately suggest for tomorrow is also the Committee, in accordance with Article. 247, but now the Committee on Agriculture has proposed that 12 points that were in the plan for the debate tomorrow be held in a united debate because it is actually about the minimum changes in those 12 laws related to the reshuffle of the State Inspectorate, so if you agree, those are points of the 12-14th agenda tomorrow, do you agree that tomorrow we also conduct a joint debate on them? We agree, no one's against it. Thank you very much. So, the proposer of these points that we are going to discuss today is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172 and 204. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, Natasa Mikush Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131187	Thank you, Vice President, esteemed MPs and SS agents. Thank you for the opportunity to conduct a united debate under these laws, i.e. the proposed amendments, since it is a package, that is, 6 laws, which comply with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act. As we know, these changes stem from a reform measure from a national reform programme aimed at improving the business environment, strengthening ultimately the competitiveness of the economy, and this is about the scale of unifying economic inspections so that they, of course, work better and more effectively. Since the State Inspectorate has been established by the State Inspectorate Act, which has been in force since 1 April of this year, means within 2 weeks practically, a legal basis has been established that inspection of the implementation of the General Safety Act of the product, namely the first one in this series, the market inspectors of the central authority of the State Administration responsible for inspection tasks, so the State Inspectorate in place of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, as currently prescribed by the applicable law. Furthermore, future inspections in the area of alternative consumer dispute resolution from 1 April also take place by the State Inspectorate and has been carried out in this area, i.e. still carried out by the Ministry of Economy. It is necessary to amend the provision of Article 30. The law on alternative consumer dispute resolution relating to inspection tasks. Then, with regard to inspection tasks in the field of control of technical requirements for products and conformity assessment procedures, which also takes over from 1 April the State Inspectorate is required to amend Article 16. The law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, which again refers to the conduct of inspection controls on the implementation of this law and the rules adopted on the basis of the same which have been implemented so far by the competent inspectors of the central authority responsible for the economy. Furthermore, since inspection operations in the area of real estate trade and intervention have also been taken over by the inspectorate since 1 April of this year and until now inspection of the application of those laws has been carried out by the competent inspectors of the Ministry of Finance. It is necessary to amend the provision of Article 66(2) as well as the provision of Article 76. The law of trade. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The e-commerce law and all those provisions relate to the tasks of carrying out inspection supervision of the implementation of these laws which I have now stated. In addition to those amendments relating to the takeover of inspection control operations, I would also like to say that, when the Law on Electronic Trade was amended, we have also proposed to amend Article 11 on the grounds that new acts governing the area of electronic signature have been in force since 2017, and that the provisions are then in line with the regulations which have been in force since 2017. In accordance with Article 204(1), it is therefore proposed to adopt these laws by emergency procedure and, in order to naturally take effect and avoid legal gaps in the conduct of inspection services within the scope of the State Inspectorate. This was accepted at the session of the Committee on Legislatives, at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and therefore here we propose that these provisions be adopted in the proposed way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131188	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first representative, Damir Felak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131189	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleague and fellow parliamentary representatives. This is one in a series of legislation packages that introduces the State Inspectorate into our legislation and replaces certain inspections that have done this job so far and have been in the jurisdiction of individual ministries, are now united all in the state inspectorate and need to change the meaning of this large number of laws, we have already done most of these, from this area, these 6 and we have heard from the vice president's word tomorrow we will have 12 other legislative proposals but concerning the other ministry. In order not to repeat the names of all these 6 laws again, I think there is no need, only to say briefly that the National Reform Programme has identified measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, improve the business environment and to this end implement measures to unify economic inspections and other inspections in the State Inspectorate as a basis for more effective carrying out inspection tasks. That is the reason for amending the following laws, for which this debate is united. The name State Inspectorate shall be introduced instead of the name of certain inspections in the jurisdiction of the ministries in the laws. There are also some of these details in the laws that are, above all, technical. In all of those laws, one article of the law replacing the name of a particular inspection with the name State Inspectorate is mainly amended. In all the laws, the final article determines on 1 April when the laws enter into force to avoid legal gaps, i.e. the laws enter into force as well as the State Inspectorate Act. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support these proposals to amend all these 6 laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131190	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the HSS, he was supposed to speak to a respected representative of Zeljko Lenart, gone, losing his right to speak. So we move on to an individual debate, which will be that respected representative of Marina Skiboli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131191	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. In the amendments and additions to the Product Safety Act, Article 11(1) of that Law, which regulates the supervision of inspectors of products, is amended. Until now, it has been stated in the law that surveillance has been carried out by market inspectors of the Ministry of Economy, these amendments are amended in the market inspectors of the central government. This legislative proposal states that the main reason for these amendments is the National Reform Programme for 2018, but you did not explain in more detail and in detail why these amendments are taking place, that is my opinion. I think you should have explained this a little more in detail so that those who are interested could understand the point of these changes more. As regards the very topics of product safety, according to the HGK report, the Member States that had the most incorrect products on the EU market in 2016 are Germany, Hungary and Spain, the most affected reactions are Denmark. Croatia is not very good at statistics. It should also be said that in a global picture, the most from China according to this report comes insecure products, everyone should also consider the amount of products coming from China, but the fact is that China comes from the most insecure products. Now, according to the statistics that are insecure products, I am most concerned about the highest percentage of notified products related to children's toys, that's the same thing as the HGK report, so children's toys are the most insecure products in the most percentages, and it's very worrying me because I think that all those products that have connections with children, that they should be monitored more closely, that there should be more control, but statistics say that there are producers very irresponsible, we don't know which expression would actually use where children's toys are actually, let's just say, the more harmful products. On the other hand, all the necessary logistics resources and material resources for efficient and effective work should be provided to the State's inspection. Many notified products are cosmetics and jewelry, citizens should pay attention to these statistics and be careful when buying these products. As far as food products are concerned, I would suggest here that food products are nutritically marked because we see that these characteristics and labels that have food products, they are mostly small letters, people don't understand what they say and we have a lot of these unhealthy products, you would dare say toxic products. Why the toxic ones, they are not toxic at a certain point, they are actually accumulation over a certain time, they cause cancer, we have growth of cancer in society, a great increase in cancer in society, so many sources say that red meat is one of the major cancers, and I believe that meat today is extremely unhealthy to avoid eating it, we have recently had an affair around Polish infected meat, while in Slovenia there has been a more serious investigation into imports of meat from Poland, in Croatia persistently convinced the public that meat imported from Poland is healthy and that the Ministry of Agriculture does not know at all how much meat from Poland is imported. The question is why meat when it came to Croatia is not reviewed but the Slovenian inspection had to inform Croatia that it was infected meat and veterinary inspections should clearly carry out better supervision when products enter the Republic, we see that these institutions have failed, for which reason the inspection does not carry out more detailed monitoring of these products, especially of meat products, I don't know, but in the future we should certainly pay more attention to these things. Every food and product comes to our market, and if the institution's inspections don't work on that plan anymore, I think our population is going to become more unhealthy, we see that there's a lot of diseases of different species like I said, the increase in cancers and there's no real cause at all, I think that the causes of that nature, meaning the nutritional nature, people today feed on this unhealthy food, and they don't really know what they're eating, and the ministry should certainly pay more attention there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131192	Thank you very much. So we're going to conclude the debate on this point and we're going to vote on it, in fact all six points are whether, which we've united, we're going to vote on when we get the conditions. We will now stop working for today. We'll get back to work tomorrow, Thursday, March 14 at 9:30. The first item will be the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Veterinary and Medical Products Act with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E., No. 582. After that, we will take a reminder of a united debate of 12 of the following points that we have today decided to unite this debate. Have a good evening. SESSION Interrupted at 16.52 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-13-0.u131193	Final proposal of the Act amending the General Product Safety Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 579, the applicant is the Government, the debate is concluded, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 81 votes, the Act on Amendments to the General Product Safety Act has been passed. Now we're going to the agenda. The first item is : - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 582; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 5(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172, 204, 206. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, have adopted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by means of an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Zeljko Kraljević. Here you go.
