ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139127	The HSS MPs' club, the Democrats also reported on their behalf, will be represented by MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139128	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the irresponsibility of the HDZ government and this internal struggle that we are witnessing in the media these days because of the poor election result of HDZ could endanger the biggest national project that HDZ loves to boast about, which is the Peljeski Bridge. In fact, the public procurement system is threatened by the blockades, as very soon in mid-July all members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures have been given a mandate, and the invitation to tender has not yet been announced. Knowing that the Chinese are building a bridge faster than expected and knowing that the public procurement system itself is bad and ineffective I want to warn of the danger that the Pelješki bridge will be another of Croatia's great wonders, a bridge that does not lead anywhere because there will be a bridge without access roads. HDZ has already done it once, and if we remember that bridge in Karlovac that leads nowhere, it just crosses the river, and we can't see its beginning or its end. It is high time for Prime Minister Plenkovic to put his personal Brussels ambitions on the other hand and start taking care of the functioning of the state and state institutions. We all know that the public procurement system is bad, inefficient and that it has already well slowed the construction of the Pelješko bridge and this is also the construction of access roads. Just to remind you that because of 221 kuna and 35 limes once again, the construction of the access road to Pelješko Bridge on the part of Duboka – Sparagović has been extended. The business has complicated the decision of the State Commission to control public procurement procedures that refused to appeal to a company in the tender. The Commission concluded that their complaint is messy because they did not pay 100,000 kuna but 99,778.65 kuna compensation. The State Commission's decision has been lifted by the High Administrative Court, so the commission will now expect again, decide on this case and who knows when. The Commission's refusal to accept a subsequent payment of 500 euros that the company subsequently paid when they saw that due to exchange rates they paid a lower bail, the High Administrative Court rated it as excessive formalism, and that assessment may also stand when we talk about the core of the issue of public procurement in Croatia. The way the commission works can find a lot of objections, experts have long warned that it is focusing too much on formal deficiencies, and it ignores the meaning of legal protection, which is to protect public procurement participants. But instead of ensuring better functioning of the commission, quality and control of public procurement, Plenkovic and the Government will lead us to the whole public procurement system being blocked. Or maybe Plenkovic will overnight and without public debate put his reliable people on the state commission. If we didn't know the ruling, we might be able to conclude that they're looking for experts for this job, but so many people have hacked into the state administration that they probably don't have anyone who could fill a body that manages billions. It is precisely because of this failure to appoint members of the state commission that a long shadow of corruption, nepotism, and involving on the ruling majority is cast. The state commission, as a body that sees billions of kuna spent on the expense of taxpayers, should be elected transparently, clearly here in this House, but it seems to us that they will be elected quickly, overnight, somewhere in the last day of the meeting of this Parliament. And where will the tears come from than the eye, where the HDZ will go rather than muttering about public procurement and spending billions. It is therefore important to warn today that there is a great chance that the ability of the government and HDZ will be put in a position that the Peljeski bridge will not lead anywhere without the access roads being built in time. All this is about the necessity of a thorough public procurement reform, otherwise the delay in the construction of access roads to Pelješke bridge and the blockade of other projects will be the black swan of HDZ, or a flock of black swans that are outrunning HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139129	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're starting a new week with a plenary session. As always at the beginning, taking the stand of club representatives and independent representatives. The first is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA, respected colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, and he is not and loses his right to speak. Then it is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139130	Mr. President. Waters and forests are our greatest wealth, and water quality control and maintenance is a matter of national security, not of new entrenched HDZs. I therefore warn the public that today on the agenda of this Assembly is the final proposal of the Water Act, where a provision has passed beneath the public radar since the establishment of a new water institute whose only committee will be Croatian Water. After the government has finely arrested Andrija Mikulić at the head of the inspectorate to remove him from Zagreb, the question is, who is next? Will Plenkovic calm one of his challengers through the back of Croatian waters in the HDZ war? And a question about questions. One of the current politicians sees the head of Croatia's coat of arms and ruins of the Croatian water industry, himself headed by the phantom fictional institute. Is it possible to know who has it or Minister Coric already knows it? Who wants to take from Croatian waters a newly equipped small-money lab based on a water-based internship, which needs to be arrested, can anyone be known, Mr. Bačić, the name, who will be the head of the institute. The final bill of law that is before you today leaves what has been built for years, which is that Croatia's leadership is a strong agency and that the administrative structures are small and that they are the service of such agencies. As far as we know the most important body to decide on water economic issues is the National Water Council established by HS, and this change and the creation of imbalances in the water economic system has not been discussed on the national council. Minister Coric, why didn't you discuss this on the national council? What are you hiding? Who is this institute being founded for? The draft proposal that was in the public debate, in e-Consultation does not contain a provision for monitoring water to be carried out by the Institute of Water, but rather for Croatian Waters. There has never been an objection to such arrangements in the public debate, and as far as we know, none of the state bodies, none of the state bodies had any objections, so it remains unclear how this once subsequent change came to be. By establishing the Water Institute, which is the only task of monitoring and analysis of water in fact means that Croatian waters no longer have the tools to manage water, and I remind you, Croatian waters are designed to manage Croatian waters. The master's HDZ workshop of impregnating and spending public money, our money, comes to a peak here. And be careful now, which in this law is, if you did not read it well, the final proposal for the law does not predict that monitoring data is being delivered to Croatian waters, and why should it be, when Croatia is running the business, no longer. On the contrary, on the other hand, the institute is projected to finance Croatian water from a water contribution. Therefore, Croatian waters will finance from our money the new heads of institutes, deputies, secretaries, cars and everything HDZ has known to do in the last 30 years, 20 years. This proposal from the Croatian Waters will exclude a very valuable segment, scientifically very strong that Croatian waters have been strong and stronger in the scientific field and what I wonder, whether Croatia's waters have a meaning without these segments and whether other segments will be separated from Croatian waters, and then Croatia's waters will actually be a flow water heater that will finance various institutes. And will this institute that will now be owned by the Ministry of Environmental Protection because it is the founder, will one day go into private hands and Croatian waters will pay for it to private people? I ask Prime Minister Plenkovic how it fits the government's conclusion of reducing the number of institutes and agencies. I ask HDZ and Prime Minister and Minister Covic For whom it is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You need, you'll stay this country [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Mrsic.]] If HDZ arrests all its members? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139131	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139132	Dear Mr. President, today my address goes to all those women who are in the programme "Wishful" because in Croatia only HDZ is allowed "desire". What... wish as much as possible, especially when it comes to the Minister of Labour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The "Wish" programme was supposed to be one of the largest peri-curities of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions system, but he suffered a breakdown because the minister did not follow the paperwork of Brussels and so left hundreds of women with a desire to see the salary they had done. To point out, the "Wish" programme was financed by the European Social Fund worth around one billion kuna and was meant to provide salaries for about 7,000 women. Salaries for elderly women who find jobs hard to find, however, nothing out of pay, just a wish. If it seemed all wonderful and wonderful at first, and the minister was full of words and desires, as many as 7,000 women received a salary of approximately 3,000 kuna nets for the care of those in need. Valuable women came to the homes of the needy, cooking, cooking, helping and maintaining households, and many today do so but have not received wages and silence for their work because they think Europe will eventually pay us our wages. I warned multiple times the program was unsaid because after 2 years of this programme, where these women will go, what will happen to them and that other foreign users are used to these women and it is useful and good, obviously Minister Pavić did not come up with the program until the end. According to media reports, the municipalities have already been full for 7 months. They're waiting for a fee that should come from the Ministry of Labour. The municipalities, knowing that it was a good project, paid their salaries out of their budget, thus jeopardising the functioning of the municipalities. Due to the inadequacy and ignorance of Minister Pavic, there has been an inability to work normally in municipalities. Now the municipalities and some counties are forced to the wall, the money no longer has the only solution seen in the cancellation of these women who are involved in this programme of beautiful titled "Zalje". Grab Belisce and the municipalities of Ceminac, Zagreb County but many others are before the end of the contract because they no longer have the possibility of the project from their budgets and the funds from Minister Pavić do not come. But he knows what is possible with Minister Pavic, which knows the wish that the minister hand and hat share money for the development of human potential at the Employment Office and left the women on the street. The company of close associates of Minister Pavic from St. Sunday will establish a letter and number for a million-and-a-half kuna system of human potential in HZZ. In this country, it's impossible to wish for ministers like this. Minister, did you exempt yourself from the decision, did you state a potential conflict of interest, and if there was, what kind of potential conflict of interest did you solve? But that's not all. The company that received this luxuriant job of a million-and-a-half kuna is also the starter of the International School of Organizational Development, translated into Croatian, I think that's true. In fact, the member of the board of directors of the school is Darko Cesar, who is also a representative of the body but sees the devil, he is also an adviser to Minister Pavic for the preparation of project proposals in the field of working relations and the job is done by volunteer. You know, that's what HDZ does. In Croatia it is only allowed to wish for ruling and their satellites, because of the HDZ in this country it is also impossible to wish for, and that is why people from Croatia are leaving us. What kind of government does a minister hire 1,000 women and then condemn them overnight for incompetence and leave them on the street? And a message for Minister Pavić, move from your chair to the 6th floor in Vukovar and take over the personal implementation of the program or finally get out of this vault where you are only doing damage. Instead of $1.5 million, give your firm the funds to pay women the wages they have earned. And be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139133	The second is a respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139134	Dear colleagues and colleagues, HDZ does not change, the HDZ authorities always synonym it for joint corruption efforts and conflicts of interest at the expense of citizens. The HDZ is changing the presidents but holding Croatia firmly in the frame of conflict of interest and corruption. Plenkovic had the ambition to change the HDZ slightly differently in a new way, but I fear that corruption remains incurably in the party, began corruption in the 1990s, with privatisation during Franjo Tudjman, and the metastases never stopped or slowed down. Corruption, nepotism, ortacular capitalism. Today, Croatia is a country for systemic corruption and inefficient justice, which is why people are leaving Croatia. If Kuščević were the only one, it would only be news but Kuščević is not the only one and unfortunately the mutilation of Croatia continues. We are witnessing that this is the most incompetent government of independence, and even the worst enemy would not wish us this set of pests in the government of the Republic of Croatia. Lovro Kuščević is not good for the government or for being HDZ political secretary. I believe he resigned only because he allowed himself to be caught, not to compromise other compromised ministers and prime ministers who knew everything and did nothing. We no longer need to talk about Kuštević, now it is time for the competent institutions to talk about him and explain to us how pastures became fairies and other buildings. The focus of the public was a bit forgotten SMS affair by Franje Varge, followed by a Mercedes in the courtyard of Minister Žalac, who allegedly drove her husband. As tears of tears arrive, the affair is catching up with the affair, so we're losing sight and perception is getting a little lost, but it's very clear that this government, the government in which corruption rules. HDZ ministers particularly fill property cards, here is Goran Maric, who is the Minister of State Property and his family have a lot of real estate, and God is good at church business. And then the pearl of pearls Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Tolusic declared the house a barbecue. The barbeque house, which is really something that is, is not seen in these areas. The company of close associates of Minister Marko Pavić will establish a system of development of human potential in the Croatian Employment Service and will receive 1.5 million kuna for this. The HZZ decision authorising the signing of the contract is just signed by the Minister of Labour and Pension System. And to be clear, the resignation should be given both by Žalac and Pavic and Tolusic and Goran Maric. All of these are pests that every day are irretrievably destroying the future of this country, and all of them are protected by the prime minister who is struggling with hands and feet to find a job outside Croatia. The prime minister very slowly with a little bit of discomfort commenting on the affairs of his ministers in style it must be clarified, it doesn't matter, as far as I understand he'll explain it, I really don't have any data from the investigation we'll think about it after we get full information. Those are the prime ministers' excuses. This real estate government should leave, it is time for Plenkovic to resign, enough is enough, the elections are the only option for Croatia, the only and fair patriotic act you can do is to call the election. Right now, today, because politics is a matter of perception, but the job of the prime minister is primarily a responsibility to the state and the people. We have seen what responsibility Plenkovic has towards the state and the people. It is terrible for an EU member that the prime minister is not replacing ministers because of their suspicious and controversial activities, but because there is a poor perception and an impact on the poor rating of HDZ. So I can lie, I can steal, I can cheat, but it can't be found out. Go away, call the elections and stop torturing Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139135	Now it's time to take a stand on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club. First is counterpart Zeljko Lenart in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats. Here's your colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139136	Thank you, dear Vice President. Today, I would like to draw attention to the public, but I would like to draw your attention to a major problem of pasture, i.e. agricultural areas. Here I am talking about the case that cattlemen from Sisak-Moslavina County have pointed out to me, especially the town of Popovaca, which has a large quantity of cattle on the pastures of Osijek. The problem here is that the town of Popovač, which owns 1544 thousand hectares of land on which they are in catastrian, paper, i.e. In land and book departments, they are treated as pastures, orans and meadows. So they're nowhere to be seduced as forest land, the Ministry of Agriculture has turned 360 acres of land into forest land by a solution. This is about pastures where horses are fed, where owners who have the largest number of horses in Sisak-Moslavina County are plagued by indigenous breeds of Croatian cold-blooded and Croatian mammals, it is about plantations, one who doesn't know what plantations are, places where cattle rest during the afternoon and hot days, which have been here for centuries, simply by the ministry's solution simply transforms into forest land. There's no pitching here, there's not even a camping lab, which is what the town of Popovaca would have to do, but Popovaca didn't want to take the pastures, and then simply the ministry does it. It says RH, Ministry of Agriculture, so it seems to me that this is the Ministry of Forestry and the Ministry of Transport of Wood Mass. What's the biggest problem here? The biggest problem is that it can be read that Croatian forests at any cost want to increase the areas that are driven like forest land so that they can get as much quota as possible for cutting the forest. Lobbies that deal with the traffic of wood mass have such great appetites that it is simply difficult to respect and it is difficult to deal with the satisfaction of these appetites. And then, in this way, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Forests take the pastures to increase the area so that they can cut as much wood as possible. The same thing is done in Croatian waters where pastures also turn into water wells. This is no longer subject to the Law on State agricultural land and to the availability of state agricultural land. And they can simply give their friends, acquaintances, or what is the biggest case to party friends land on their own terms and conditions. I doubt it, and I'm also told that the whole story involves the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County, Mr. Rosavec, who was otherwise a professor at the Faculty of Agronomics, who is closely connected to these logs dealing with the traffic of wood mass. Therefore, I appeal to the government of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, because this is what his people do to deal with the issue and not to destroy even such fallen agriculture especially cattle farming in Sisak-Moslavina County. Dear gentlemen, not everything has to be a forest of which unfortunately the Croatian people have no use and is essentially the owner of the Croatian forest and belongs to the people. The narrow team of people deals with sucking as much money out of the Croatian forests as they can. Take a look at the roads of how many of these trees are transported and how many of them are such trucks and many have already warned some associations about what they do with forests, how they intersect and how they devastate the area in which forests grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139138	We move on to the next presentation of the position, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139139	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, here are on behalf of the HSS and Democrats Club a few words about the current political situation. For months now, we have been hearing about the affairs of ministers, prime minister and government dealing with how to prevent damage to HDZ, and somehow the Croatian and Croatian citizens are in another plan. Following some economic growth and GDP growth where the forecast is now optimistically increased to 3.1%, the finance minister also announces tax reform. However, what is crucial is that our citizens still do not feel the benefits of tax reform in terms of increasing their home budget in terms of increasing its purchasing power. But it should be made clear that both recently and publicly, a group of economists, five of the most significant banks in the Republic of Croatia are saying that this growth in GDP will not continue at this pace and are forecasting for next year a slowdown of 2.5%. And what is also important to point out that it is silenced that in our environment Hungary is growing at a rate of 5.2, Romania 5.1, Poland 4.7, and why are we not learning from those who are better? No, we're dealing with affairs here, we're dealing with the rescue of the real estate business of our ministers instead of being automatically relieved of their duties, their resignations are awaiting them, and they're being rewarded by coming to HS. You can think of being punished. What is crucial and what economists warn about, and we from HSS have repeatedly said that without discharging the economy, tax and other burdens, there is no further economic growth and strengthening, without a more quality procedure for public wages, growth in pensions, there is neither an increase in the standards or purchasing power of our citizens, and here economists point out that our institutional framework, the legislative framework, is such that the obstacle to the development of the economy and that we cannot even attract more significant international investment. Without support and quality support for agriculture and food production in the Republic of Croatia, there is no growth or GDP, no quality of life in the Republic of Croatia, no suspension of emigration. How do citizens treat it? Well, they simply save their home budget based on their purchasing power, given that in the Republic of Croatia most of their products are too expensive for food, agricultural, because of a large VAT that is bigger than in the environment, they go over to BiH, Serbia. According to the 2018 data, it is over 500 million kunas have been removed from the Republic of Croatia, and I was speaking here and Minister Marić that as long as VAT on food and agricultural products in BiH, Slovenia and Serbia is lower than in the Republic of Croatia, it is somewhere between 8% and 10%, we are 13%, we will not be competitive + they have a tax refund and somewhere over 400 daily citizens from the Republic go shopping in BiH and Serbia. In this way, they only help to grow and develop trade in the border area, and we certainly expect in a new tax reform that is more significant in the tax relief of the economy, support for agriculture, and there is no development of agriculture without agricultural land. Why did the government's interpretation of work on the basis of which HSS and partners of colleagues and colleagues from other parties did not submit an interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for inaction on the implementation of a programme for the provision of state agricultural land came into debate this week in HS? It was only today at the government and, of course, the government rejected our interpretation as some kind of pamphlet, as an unconfirmed position of clubs, it's not true. It is true that the Government has not applied to the European Commission for the extension of the moratorium for the sale of the country to foreigners, it is true that we from the HSS are against the sale of the country to foreigners and it is true that 225 municipalities and cities have not received consent to the available programmes, and why? Because it stops Croatian forests and Croatian waters, they are constantly looking for some additions and exclusion of particles that are public water good or forest, and in fact they are agricultural land. And our cattlemen and agricultural producers will be left without agricultural land, and I think they finally need to be told the truth that law enforcement is being stopped at the expense of agriculture and agricultural producers, and that should be said a lot and Minister Tolusic should also leave the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139140	I thank my colleague Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139141	Representative Marin Škibola will present his position as an independent representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139142	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear MPs and distinguished MPs, today in the city of... and the Trade Court in Rijeka re-determined fate 3. Maya, do you 3. May's going bankrupt or he'll keep him alive for a while. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many epithets are used for the city of Rijeka, one of them is that Rijeka is a progressive city. Is that really how it is and gave our river really progressive? 2011 Rijeka had 128 624 inhabitants in 2017. The state statistical office states that Rijeka has 119 161 inhabitants. The river's been in the last 10 years. The loss of about 8% of the population is the largest outflow if we compare cities in the Republic of Croatia that have over 100,000 inhabitants. We all know that Rijeka was once a powerful industrial and port city, today we are looking at a depressing river where the city's rule with Obersnel has been under way for 10 to 15 years. can't realise an ordinary bus station. While the waist, economic indicators and reality suggest that Rijeka stagnates, Mayor Obersnel boasts that we are among the leading economies in the Republic of Croatia. Recently, Rijeka had the opportunity to visit the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timermans, who then said that Rijeka is a symbol of what Europe is trying to do. I don't understand how Europe can pursue economic stagnation and population draining. Obviously, he too was deceived by these false epithets, an unrealistic state, because otherwise I cannot explain to myself what economic indicators the Rijeka should be a symbol of Europe, in which the EU itself will move. It is a great compliment that Rijeka was awarded the title of the European Capital of Culture in 2020, the first Croatian town to be praised, however, too long has been neglected to be able to do the project quality in a short time. Unfortunately, the city that runs turns into a city that disappears, and the city government is watching it peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139143	Now we continue with the speech. The first is the esteemed member of the Scybola as an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u139144	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, although you assume that I will talk about the euro zone, it will not be my topic of speech at the moment. Today I will talk about the devastated Rijeka coast and negligence at the largest Croatian port. Rijeka coast from the port of Baroš to the river shipyard "3. May" is abandoned, we do not maintain and paint the biggest Croatian port. Did you know that Rijeka is the only larger Croatian town at sea that has not arranged its coasts and has not turned away from the sea. So today if you want to get a berth for your boat it's impossible and people who want to start with a nautical or cruise job have huge problems. The river is full of old ships, of which are the city's most famous two mockery, which is Tito's boat Galeb in the port of Baroš and the ship Nin, which was situated up until a few days ago in the city center and caused huge losses both to the city of Rijeka, both to the county and to Croatia. The Rijeka coast lacks infrastructure and arrangement because, for example, the Rijeka harbor that has been turned into the Molo Longo promenade points to these shortcomings and neglect towards citizens and boaters and as many as 60 thousand passengers and tourists pass through the port. The river along the devastated coast has no gas station for boats along all cranes, some of which even light. No nautical vessel can be raised in Rijeka. All major cities in the Mediterranean have decently arranged coasts and it is an integral part of the city’s face. It's enough to just look at the example of Trieste and Copra. One of the major problems with the river coast is the INA at Mlaca because the facility is contaminated and uncleaned by dangerous chemicals, only 200 meters from the first buildings where people live. I call on the government to urgently resuscitate this area which is an ecological bomb in the very heart of the city and Mr. Obersnell to resign because it has already been 20 years of his rule and terror for the citizens of the city of Rijeka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142733	After we've exhausted, MP Lovrinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142734	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me express great dissatisfaction with the way our parliamentary issues work because I have no other opportunity to say it. I sent it to the Ministry of Finance three months ago, to the IRS, to the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency, please, Mr Vice President, I know you're not the President, but this is a shame, no one's answering for three months. We did rushes, please, so should we write to anyone else at all? So one ignoring, one blocking system. As the Presidency of the Parliament, the president, moves towards us, simply let the citizens hear if they can't intervene otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142735	Thank you. When the President of Parliament is here, he's the right address. We're moving on to the agenda. The first item of the agenda is: - Annual report on the implementation of the Strategy and the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017. Carrier: Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia; Carrier is the Central State Office for Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 15. Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Zvonko Milas, State Secretary, Head of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142736	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs, fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to point out that I have the opportunity and obligation to point out that I am already here for the second year in a row through the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as the central body of the state administration, so I am responsible for relations with Croats living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia during 2017. And I'd like to highlight some steps, initiatives that were carried out in that year. Of course none of this would be possible without close cooperation with competent authorities at all levels in the Republic of Croatia. I would especially like to highlight continued co-operation with the Assembly Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the advice of the Government of Croatia for Croats outside the borders of our beautiful one. In order to create clear results, I would like to point out that the importance of support has been recognised, cooperation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, that is, projects of Croatian institutions around the world and that the government has allocated almost 34% higher funding for projects compared to 2016. I would like to look a little more closely at the work of the office as well as the implementation of the programme, or the activities carried out by the office and directed towards the Croatians in BiH, members of the Croatian national minority in the European countries and members of Croatian emigrants in the overseas European countries. A few words about the Croats in BiH. First of all, without a view of what was in 2018, a review of the political situation following the October 2018 elections is currently under way, but I remind you that the Croats have been unable to elect their legitimate Croatian member of the presidency for the third time since 1995 in the October 2018 elections. As you all know, the scenario has been repeated where members of one constitutive people in the Federation's territory elect representatives to another in this case Croatian and despite the majority of Croatians' will, therefore, over 95% of Croats have given confidence to their candidate, however it is too loud for the majority will of Bosniak votes and therefore such a harsh violation of Croatian rights to elect legitimate representatives in BiH's political life, it is not good for anyone in BiH, not for any people, nor for its citizens. And in this context, I would just like to say that support for the Croats in BiH, encouraging their return and survival, strengthening their equality and equality as a constituent people, is the strategic goal and interest of the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that we have a consensus in this. When we talk about programmes, the biggest programme of offices intended for the Croatian people in BiH is also the largest financial of all programmes intended for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and it is exactly the programme that is funded projects in the field of education, culture, science and health and projects that are of interest, in any case for all Croatians in BiH. The 2017 funding for this programme increased by almost 20% compared to 2016 and through this programme, projects in the field of culture were financed, so 30 projects, from education and science 22 projects, 14 projects in the field of health and 22 projects in other areas of life in a total of 88 projects. Key criteria in the selection of projects involving the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs were strategically important projects that bring long-term benefits to the Croatian people. The priority in obtaining financial support was in the programme and projects implemented in partnership with the local community in BiH but was careful and taken care to ensure that the support was territorially evenly distributed throughout the BiH area where Croats live. As a result of such a policy, I would say that so far many projects have been completed, but I am proud to point out that it has been completed and put into office of a project home for students of weaker property in Mostar. A student home equipped in Sarajevo opened recently and 6 lamelas, i.e. 6th block of the Croatian hospital Dr. Fra Mato Nikolic in Novi Bila. A new division of OS Ruđer Boskovic has been opened in Gruds, saying that the number of first-borns is growing. A small school was restored in broad hills. A home has been opened for children with special needs in Kiseljak, Ljubusko and many others. From the additional financial allocations to the Croats in BiH, it is important to point out that during 2017, the government of the Republic of Croatia provided additional funding for two strategic institutions of the Croatian people in BiH, so we are talking about the University of Mostar and the HNK in Mostar. An important programme we are implementing and which would like to highlight is a scholarship programme for students of members of the Croatian people in BiH. This strengthens BiH's educational and scientific capacities, strengthens the role of educated individuals in the environments in which they live but encourages the remaining of young people in BiH. Out of the 500 scholarships awarded by the office to members of the Croatian people for the academic year 2016/2017, Croatians from BiH who are studying in BiH were awarded 400 scholarships while the remaining 100 were assigned from BiH to study in the Republic of Croatia. Through our work, we work together with representatives of Croats at all levels of government in BiH, with numerous associations, associations operating in BiH and beyond, and institutions and institutions in the fields of culture, science and education, but I would stress that we have initiated and held meetings with representatives of the BiH executive government where Croats do not have their representatives in order to improve the living conditions of Croats living in those parts of BiH. In an effective solution to Croatia's problem of returnees especially in Republika Srpska's entity, we have stepped up co-operation with the representatives of the associations in a way that we have initiated the signing of a co-operation agreement with associations of exiled Croats and returnees from northwestern Bosnia. We believe that in this way we can more strongly represent and exercise our rights or resolve a number of open issues of people living there or returning to those areas. A few words about the Croatian national minority. One of the key goals of the Republic of Croatia is the strengthening of the Croatian national minority in all the environments in which it exists, and it contributes to strengthening the status and achievement of minority rights and further supports the preservation of Croatian identity, language, culture and heritage in the domestic states where there is a Croatian national minority. This is done through funding programmes and projects with Croatian associations, institutions and institutions, as well as through bilateral agreements and intergovernmental mixed committees which have proved to be a very quality mechanism for improving minority status and resolving open issues. I would also like to point out that we have raised 50% in support of the Croatian minority in 2017 compared to 2016 and when we talk about intergovernmental mixed committees, I would say that Croatia has concluded agreements on the protection of the rights of national minorities from 4 countries, with Hungary, the Republic of Serbia, Macedonia, and today Northern Macedonia, Montenegro. The aim is to monitor the implementation of the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and those countries, and I would say that in 2017 we hosted and organised two sessions in February with Hungary or in May with Montenegro and in 2018, which I am proud to point out, we managed to hold all 4 sessions but we will talk about this in the 2018 report. Given the complexity... Croatian national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, the activities of the office during 2017 were aimed at supporting representatives of the Croatian minority in achieving their minority rights through the strengthening of professional capacities in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the negotiating process, so Serbia towards the EU, we started the process of resolving the issue and the seats of the news publishing institution Croatian word, therefore, the issue of information, which was also achieved in April last year and many other projects that will indeed contribute to strengthening the position and status of Croats in the Republic of Serbia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to mention once again that the Croats in Slovenia have no status since 91st, so neither the national minority nor any other recognised language or ethical group and in order to systematically undertake the activities of the institutions of the Republic of Slovenia and our community in Slovenia, we launched an initiative in 2017 and established a commission to address the issues of the status of Croats in the Republic of Serbia that began their work, we hope that, together with our community that lives and exists in the Republic of Slovenia, we will try to reach the status that these people, therefore, as autochthon minorities in some regions of Slovenia deserve. In terms of additional support for representatives of the Croatian national minority, it is important to note that in cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Education of the Republic of Croatia, except... Lecterate and Croatian languages, we are proud to highlight the establishment of lecerates in... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] West University and a recently established lecture in Novi Sad. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to say to the Croatian emigrants that during 2017, apart from the already existing funding programmes of Croatian emigrants, they worked to strengthen ties with numerous emigrant communities and this resulted in the launch of new projects, and one way to support the Croatian emigrant community in emigration was, of course, financial support for projects and programmes of Croatian emigrants in South America and South Africa. So the offices in 2017 in collaboration with the embassies launched and maintained a total of 18 projects. What I particularly want to highlight is the program of learning Croatian language in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, in the part dedicated to members of Croatian emigrants who assume their full meaning and purpose because almost 95% of the students and students of the Croatian language course at universities in Zagreb, Split and Rijeka, if God, from this year on and next in Osijek, comes right from emigration, mainly from the countries of Latin America, but more and more from Australia and Canada. It should be pointed out that 232 grants have been granted for school years 2017 and 2018, which so far is the most convincing number of scholarships and due to continued growth, as well as those of young people who express their desire to remain in the Republic of Croatia, we consider this programme a very important faith aimed at returning and moving to the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to look back at the difficult social, economic and security situation in the Republic of Venezuela, where there is a Croatian community that counts a little less than 5,000 people and where the office is active with humanitarian organisations, the UN and all those who can, helps and saves our community in some way, but together with other institutions it designs, therefore, programs and projects that will be in a wider connection with our Croats who have a desire to return to the Republic of Croatia. During 2017, it was particularly important, therefore, to connect with Croatian emigration through projects such as the Roots, this is a project that connects children of primary schools, in particular, we started from Vukovar in 2017 together with BiH, we came to North America, to Chicago, today we are spread across Europe with that network, so here, I would like only one detail to be pointed out, therefore, that the president of the Irish House Sean O Fearghail, therefore, the country that has a historical, immigrant, therefore, great immigrant history, recognized the importance of this project and personally participated in one of these conferences, expressed itself very favourablely about its purpose, or the very idea of the project. In the context of encouraging educational and scientific cooperation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the office concluded an agreement with the University of Zagreb in March 2017. On this basis, a special registration quota for enrolment in pre-graduate, integrated undergraduate and graduate studies at the University of Zagreb for members of the Croatian minority and Croatian emigrants are approved. The specific registration quota has been adopted for the academic year 2018 and 2019 and will also be adopted for the following year. In March this year, an agreement was signed with the Croatian Catholic University, and in May at a meeting of the Rectors' Assembly in Split and with all other universities in the Republic of Croatia. In the long term, we believe that this measure is aimed at strengthening the demographic, economic and general progress of Croatian society, and therefore it is necessary to promote and support together and do its best to truly be recognized by young people living outside the Republic of Croatia, who belong to Croatian emigrants or descendants, but who can contribute to the reputation and strengthening of our universities. The Government of the Republic of Croatia on the initiative of the Office, established a Council for the Learning and Teaching of Croatia as another foreign and hereditary language, a coordinating body that will deliver a strategy by the end of this year to discuss how to implement and promote the learning and teaching of Croatian language and culture, especially among Croats and their numerous descendants living outside the Republic of Croatia. So, the council is composed of prominent Croatian experts and all institutions, and I believe that the strategy will indeed give, give direction or that it will set key goals in which way the Croatian language will get as strong a position as possible, or among Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. We also started free online courses of Croatian languages intended for Croats outside the country, as well as all other interested in learning Croatian language. During 2017 we started to maintain educational and practical workshops at the invitation of our emigrants, our communities, in cooperation with our embassies and the first education was in Canada, last year we were in the United States and I have to say that feedback is more than good and the community is very pleased with this approach, we expect this team to go to Australia, but what I would like to point out is why it is necessary? Because until today in North America and Canada and Australia, never has the Republic of Australia sent any co-ordinator, any Croatian language teacher who could work with our community, so on conservation, and therefore I am particularly glad that, as far as I know, we already have a coordinator in Australia, is expected in North America, or Canada. To point out that an amateur sports competition was held in July 2017. The World Sports Games, therefore a gathering of young Croats based on sports where over 1,000 competitors from around the world have gathered, and this is indeed connecting the Republic of Croatia with the whole world throughout the world through youth, so what we can all do is support it. When we talk about the development of state policy towards Croats outside the country, we must say that a significant impulse is given by the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, so the body that needs to be created in some way, which is living problems that our community faces and proposes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia possible solutions to these problems. The Council stressed the need for the integration of all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia to improve the position of Croats in BiH, to improve the position of our minority in Serbia, i.e. Slovenia and the Government have indicated the continuity of sustainability and openness for cooperation with representatives of Croatian communities around the world. I would like to say that, as part of the changes in the expenditures that have been encouraged by the conclusions of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the MUP established a working group in 2017 to amend the Law on Croatian Citizenship and as far as I know, the 2nd reading should soon be in this House and I believe that the adoption of this law will facilitate the acquisition of Croatian citizenship, but also further encourage the desire to return, i.e. for an even stronger relationship with the Republic of Croatia, regardless of its form, whether in the form of real return, education, economy, investment or any other way. In the end, I would say that the realization of all these activities would not be possible first of all, without cooperation with the Croatian community, without their engagement, therefore, without the fact that Croats around the world really want to have a strong relationship with their homeland. I would especially like to highlight the contribution of the Catholic Church and Croatian Catholic missions that continue to preserve and cherish the entire Croatian identity. I would like to thank all the institutions in the Republic of Croatia, individuals, the Assembly Committee and the Council for their cooperation, and I hope that we will all contribute more strongly together to stronger integration and good partnership with Croatians living around the world. Thank you very much, and I'm open to all your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142737	Thank you. 10 replicas of which were first reported by MP Zekakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142738	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, we're listening to the report. A lot of data, a lot of numbers. However, you did not say the key information, or I may have skipped to hear that today in the world according to what it says on the pages of your office lives 3 million Croats with descendants outside and that there are no Croats who still belong to the category of national minorities in neighbouring countries, above all I think of BiH, of course a constituent people. So maybe three and a half million, maybe more Croats and their descendants. There are fewer than 4 million inhabitants in Croatia today, let's say about the same, and we only talk about Croats outside Croatia once a year in this house. Just once. I'm going to mention some key things in the debate, but I'm going to mention one piece of information that's interesting, which is that it's only 18,000 people out of 3 million people. or 4 could achieve their right to vote in these elections [[/Intruder: Time's up. Thank you.]] And they're not allowed to do that. [[Employer: Representative Zekanovic, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142739	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142740	Thank you, well-respected representative Zekanovic. So, does it live 3, 3 and a half, unfortunately no one knows for sure and it is very difficult to talk about these figures, but it includes all Croats, so BiH and the Croatian national minority are simply because they are Croats, so we do not share them through our report because they live in specific conditions and with specific problems, so we can characterize them more easily, but otherwise when we talk about Croats outside the Republic, we are talking about everyone. The Croatian report, exactly, is once a year in this House. So I have to say that two years ago, he was gone, if I remember ever. So this is the second report ever filed in this high house, so about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and proudly that this government has initiated this report to come before parliamentary deputies, but it is not true that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are not talking about this House. You have a Assembly Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, you have a Committee on Foreign Policy, so as I recall, there have been thematic sessions and in BiH, a declaration has been brought in. thematic sessions, therefore, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's done and talked. [[Intruder: Time's up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142741	So please just be careful about the weather. Representative Glasovic also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142742	Dear colleague, I welcome you and your team here. Short and clear. I welcome these cultural projects, infrastructure projects, that's all good, and that turns out to be charity. How much is the proportion of Croats between Croatia and BiH, Croatia with Croats. Hundreds of millions of euros. That's not what you're talking about. It's another thing. Let's say, and it's a new citizenship law. I'm getting memos yesterday, the man completed this request has been met, it should wait 3 months to submit that request. Bureaucracies. It's not all about money. The registry, etc., but as Mr. Zekanovic said, there is a strong blockade in this Croatian home that we must, as we must, talk about voting, it is only pro form. Not even 10% of Croats came out registered outside, except BiH, to the elections. It's just a smoke screen. How true, a few hundred percent, it's just smoke curtains because people who don't want these people to come back, it's a national sabotage.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142743	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142744	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Glasnovic. It's not just culture. I know that trade between BiH and the Republic of Croatia is as big as it is, but I think someone else should mention it. As far as citizenship is concerned, therefore this is exactly what the Government has encouraged, I must say on the initiative, so the Council of the Government outside the Republic of Croatia changes the Law on Citizenship because people living outside the Republic of Croatia would easily, as easily as possible, come to Croatian citizenship and thus get that legal basic link with their homeland, and from that everything further arises. So, things change and I thank you all for helping out, but I have to say once again after 23 years this is the first thorough, first fundamental change of the Law on Citizenship that will feel very strongly our emigration, Croatian emigration to a positive extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142745	Please don't throw your friend off the bench. Agent Tudjman called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142746	Oh, thank you. Fellow Milas congratulated on your efforts and report, however, I would suggest that you be a little more aggressive to get the whole picture done, not only in your office but also from advice and from other institutions, especially in order to achieve synergy and coordination on projects beyond individual institutions. Take a clean one, for example. The broadcasting of these national television programmes is limited abroad because of copyright, you know what this is about, so it is one project that should also be encouraged in the European Parliament to address these issues in principle or when it comes to science and technology, education and science, not only those research or PhDs, but also other members who deal with autonomously. Croatian communities abroad. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142747	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142748	Thank you, well-respected representative Tudjman, I agree with you, but I want to talk about it right now or how Representative Glasovic said what it was 30 years ago. I want to show that even in that segment this government has moved something. So, programs intended for Croatian emigration where there are a lot of problems, from copyright and everything else, I certainly hope that our candidates elected to the European Parliament will talk there because there is the right place for such a thing, but also here. And on the other hand, when we talk about science, so I just mentioned that we started, so we signed agreements with all the universities in the Republic, which is an excellent platform for any further ideas, for any further possibilities of cooperation, so all of what universities together with all of us can, can contribute to that whole story getting its true course and its true dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142749	Representative Sladolev, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with coming, so that we are discussing the 2017 report, so here in the Croatian Parliament in the past month we have had reports from some other state offices since 2018, but this is a question for the president of the assembly, not for you. So, on the first 10 pages, I noticed, that mixed committees were established with Hungary, Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro to monitor the implementation of the agreement on the protection of the rights of national minorities. However, in the report I did not notice reports from these committees, whether they were really meeting, which conclusions, especially given the problems of the Croatian minority in Serbia, therefore there are committees, but we do not see any conclusions of these committees in the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142751	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142752	Thank you very much. You have well noticed, therefore, there are 4 committees with 4 neighbouring countries, sessions are held and recommendations are made at sessions, so that they enter into the minutes, and recommendations serve to monitor or implement the agreement signed between these countries. And these recommendations go to the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government adopts them or does not continue to implement them in accordance with the possibilities, with the state budget and with everything that follows. So, through the adoption of the state budget and everything else, you have the opportunity to participate in this story and see how and which recommendations to help which national minorities are in the meetings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142753	Representative Bulj, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142754	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Milos, you said in your statement that the strategic goal of this government and your office is to take care of Croats outside the country and BiH. In BiH, this is a constitutional obligation and we are interested in the results, how many Croats currently live in BiH in the back of Dalmatia as long as they live because it is a strategic national interest of the Republic of Croatia. Too much blood was paid by BiH people for both freedom and Croatia and BiH, let's just remember Posavina, which in that part, which is in central Bosnia, we need to have more thorough reports and the Croatian government and governments had to work more, and how many governments were working on the interests of Croats outside Croatia is saying that we are now discussing the 2017 report. So that people know how far they've been going I care about them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And it's It's the only true fact. [[Intruder: Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142755	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142756	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Representative Bulj, I'll only try to explain through two sentences what you're talking about. That is exactly what the constitutional obligation is, and I think that the best way to talk about it is for the Croats from BiH in their relationship with the Republic of Croatia or for me to be more precise with the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is how it deals with its president. And I'm going to end up with the sentence of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic who said you were our backs now we all have to pull you forward together. I think that's all there is to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142757	Mr. Grmoy's representative, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142758	The respected secretary of state, or respected this Mr. Milas, despite this negative influence, means parts of international institutions, international communities and also the aspirations of these pro-government policies towards the majorisation of Croats in BiH, I am also sorry that you did not admit that Croatian institutions did not have done enough, that Croatian political elites also influenced this majorisation and came and I think that in general both the position and office and the position of the ministry or Croatian government should be much more powerful in protecting Croatian interests and supporting Croats in BiH to realise these aspirations that go in the direction of equality, nothing more. I think in terms of some objectivity and self-criticity, it would be good to mention it in the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142759	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142760	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoy. I agree that it is certain that there is always more and that it can be better and that it can be more committed to improving the status and position and solving all of the problems that Croats face in Bosnia and Herzegovina in their daily lives. And I agree that perhaps not only this home but everything in the Republic should be made aware of a little higher which are the problems and everyday life that these people have in everyday life. Whether this government gives enough, probably can do better but that gives more than others I'm sure of. And we are all here together yes, so we had the opportunity and we brought the Declaration on the position and status of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've made clear what we think about politics and everything that is. Perhaps the problem is that we ourselves cannot put a consensus on it, so it might be easier and simpler for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina to know that they have someone who will always hold their hand and help them when necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142761	Representative Lovrinovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142762	Thank you. Dear Mr. Miles. Only now are we discussing the report for 2017 and the 6th month 2019 is so much about care for Croats outside Croatia. But most of you know that I was born in Central Bosnia, I welcome all citizens, especially our countrymen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in Central Bosnia, where I was born and strongly support them. However, it is unrealistic to expect that from Croatia that we can help Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina more in a situation where the government of the Republic of Croatia is the same as before when the Brussels vases were, there is no, they are moving away, they are leaving the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and now they expect these people to protect you outside the Republic of Croatia, above all in Bosnia and Herzegovina where the attempt by others to disrupt these relations. Once I win power in the next elections with our partners, we will change the situation in Croatia and then we will protect the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and everywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142763	Thank you. Time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142764	Thank you. Representative Lovrinović, everyone in his life no matter where he comes from through his work and life has the opportunity to fight, represent the end or the space and people he lived with. That's how I believe you're doing everything you can to help both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Posavina from where you come from. But I believe that all representatives of this House of Highs and even the largest number of Croats in the Republic of Croatia want the same thing, he thinks the same thing. But I repeat again, if we all have different opinions about it and if through the policy that we are going through, here we are today, the most important thing is that the report for 2017 is never too late if it's happy. We should have done more important things before this report, so maybe this report would have been unnecessary. So, I mean, let's at least try to make a consensus on this issue so that these people really feel that the Republic of Croatia is standing there as a friend and as an associate in everything that goes through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142765	Representative Skoric, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142766	Thank you, well-respected chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here's the talk about your report. I can only commend all the efforts and work of the office. So the fact that we know her is here and that our colleague, the late Ivan Bagarić, who recently left us, gave a strong seal and a draft of this office and its activities and practically created a legal basis so that we can be more quality in protecting and connecting Croats with Croatia. I would only mention a question about the financing of those two key institutions in this report in 2017 it is the University of Mostar and HNK in Mostar where there have been objections to some who have said that there are too many investments, but when we see from UNESCO that every 5th student from Mostar comes from Croatia, so that almost 2900 were then studied and today there are 4 thousand and that after Germany and BiH that no other country in the neighbourhood has so many students from Croatia, so this confirms that this office does not only work for Croats outside of Croatia but also for Croatians.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142767	Thank you. Time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142768	Thank you. Representative Škorić, thank you again for refreshing the memories of our friend, the late Ivan Bagarić, did much at all for Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the end of where he came from, and I am sorry that he left too soon he could give much more. On the other hand, when we talk about the institutions of the University of Mostar and the HNK, we all say that education is the key of everything, so let's give it an opportunity for young people in BiH, young Croats to be educated in the environments they live in and I believe it will encourage them to stay there and to have these skills, knowledge, everything that they get through education can tomorrow enlarge the lives of their families and their neighbours, so even the end in which they live. And when we talk about HNK, and what does the identity of one people mean more than the HNK? So we all have to do everything together to actually realize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142769	Representative Babic also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142770	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, among other things, you spoke about revenues related to the Central State Office. And among other things, these general incomes and receipts that are bound but also a part of the income from the games to the happiness. So each year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts one regulation on criteria for the identification of users and ways of distribution from gambling. Now if you look and I looked at the last 4.5 years from 2016 to 2019, you'll see how this percentage ratio changes. I don't know how much and if you're involved in the drafting of this regulation but I think there's enough space to give one part of these funds in a percentage amount more for the central state office of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia because I think with the programs you're working on, I think there's enough that one part of the funds can be found. I'm not going to read the percentage amounts from civil society associations, humanitarian people with disabilities, but I think it can be done to make more money happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142771	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142772	Thank you very much, Agent Babic. I would just like to point out once again that if you have looked at, so from 2015 to 2016, the budget of the office has grown every year, so in all segments, whether it is towards the Croats in BiH through public calls for national minorities, therefore, but I agree with you really, it is all a drop in the sea, so much more can be done because we are in the office and I believe that you are agreeing about it, that the best collaboration through real projects, through the real programs that we are standing with on the two sides, and we are all together on one side, so this cooperation through something that will be quality, which will give you a contribution, which will connect us is better than talking through phones, through I don't know, different ways of communication than projects that give long-term benefits to those people, it's the best and thank you nicely on this suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142773	Representative Shuker has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, above all congratulations on the report that has been done methodically well, it struck the subject and I am glad that you in the opening statement pointed out a few things that we must always bear in mind and when we talk about Croats outside the Republic, we have a series of points in this Assembly that we can talk about, however, unfortunately, now we see disunity, political bickering about helping Croats outside the Republic, and that is what best tells those who speak so. However, when we talk about the work of this office and about the relationship then it is especially important that you point out, talk about the Croats in Serbia and the Croats in Serbia, I think they are special, they should be particularly apostrophe, you said to the HNK in BiH and the University of Mostar, it is the only university and everything else is universities, it has spread to both Orasje and central Bosnia, that there was no higher home, that there was no Croatian budget, there would be no sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142775	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142776	Thank you, Mr. Schuker, I agree with you, the University of Mostar is today a central educational institution and not only the Mostar or the Croats, but in general BiH, and we believe that indeed the Republic of Croatia needs to work with institutions and theatre and university, as well as a university hospital in order to primarily create young people and help young people to stay there and really continue to live in areas where their ancestors were born, so where they live forever, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142777	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first club of representatives who called for the debate is the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, representative Marko Sladolev will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, So before us is the State Office Report for Croats outside the country, and I will look at one fact at the beginning that no one has ever talked about before, and not just the report, so these people are forgotten and it's about the new diaspora, about the Croats who moved to Ireland and Germany. So here I ask the public question are they Croats out of country? Because in our report, in this report, they were forgotten, in these replicas forgotten, is this Government and the Government's office, so is he talking to them too? So what the office has done for people who have moved out and that young people who have lost faith in this country, in institutions, and it is not as the prime minister says normal fluctuation of workers on the EU labour market, it is an exodus due to injustice and hopelessness. So this government office is co-responsible as the government's office and for the situation. So MOST proposed a series of legal measures through its project of remaining movement, so that those people who moved out would get a wish to return to the Republic of Croatia. It should also be said that these legal acts that we have proposed here are almost all rejected. Last Friday, in the Croatian Parliament of the Government, we had a rejection of the MOST's legal proposal on microsolars, which would make all of Dalmatia energy independent. So these are questions that this government office must answer as well. So I ask the question, are the Croats who have moved to Ireland and Germany in the last five years, are they written off for this government, is the government having any plan for these people to come back because they are almost not spoken of in this report? In the report itself, and what did I mention in the replica, is that on the first 10 pages, that these mixed offices with Hungary, Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro were established in order to monitor the implementation of the agreement and, therefore, the secretary of state responded in some way but I will ask the question how many rights of the Croatian national minorities since 2017 have been improved especially in Serbia and when will we get those reports that we as Croatian representatives can respond to it? I ask again why this report is given a year and a half later at a plenary session but again, the address is on the President of the Parliament and not on you. Personally, I think that this Office for the Republic of Croatia is necessary but that large amounts of money are spent mostly on administration, organising meetings of mixed committees, monitoring the situation and other things, and that the specific funds that are small for each part of these projects and where this money must be cumulatively focused precisely on specific situations in order for Croats outside the country to have help. Finally, they will refer to part of the Croats, hence the Report on the Croats in BiH, which in this HS, some MPs were called a national minority, although they were never and will never be but the constituent and oldest people in BiH. One of the most important foreign policy issues of the Republic of Croatia where MOST clearly and consistently insisted is the issue of the territorial political constitutionality of the Croatian people in BiH. The oldest people in BiH who created and defended BiH today in the heart of Europe cannot exercise its fundamental political rights. Despite the negative impact of the international community's part and the prodigal unitarian aspirations, it should be fair and clear that Croatian political elites are also to blame for the political, economic and civic majorisation of Croats in BiH. What MOST represents is a systematic, strategic and concrete approach to resolving the Croatian issue in BiH. Some of the concrete policies that MOST has represented on this issue are stronger international articulation of Croatian issues in the EU institutions, developed diplomatic representations and lobbyist structures, stronger investment and co-operation in economic, scientific and cultural projects of Croats in Croatia and BiH, federalisation and the European path of BiH. It is important that our people in BiH know that in MOST MPs they will have authentic representatives who will represent their interests, be a strong voice for the Croatian man in BiH, with their work so far, in particular speeches in the Assembly, amendments to the Croatian Declaration in BiH, by persistently representing a clear policy towards BiH, the MOST has shown that it is politically supporting its brothers and sisters in political aspirations to achieve equality. We will not come to buy votes in BiH before the elections, and then after the elections, we will forget the same people, betray them, but will stand firm and uncompromisingly with our people and their political interests. And lastly, I would say that this government is doing everything possible to ensure that the Croats in BiH, and the facts show that they move out of their homeland, and the Croats who decided to go to Ireland, stay there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142779	Proposer asked for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142780	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I don't want five minutes, I'll just have two. I would like to refer to the presentation of an esteemed parliamentary representative, so I hope that we will not become responsible as an office for Croatians leaving Croatia, but for Croats who are outside Croatia, so from the top I realized that the office is doing nothing because the Croats are leaving. For your information, we were in Ireland as an office, we talked to our people who are there, as many as there are, believe what we saw won't stay long, which I don't know if it's good or not. I want them to return to Croatia and of course they are part of the Croats that the office cares about, as well as all other Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Also, Croats who went to Germany, Austria or anywhere else around the world. We may be able to discuss responsibilities in this context elsewhere or in this context, but on another occasion. But to talk about it, to try to put an end to it, I see it, and I would like to once again underline what I just said, to find a consensus about this and this home. You pointed out here what everything MOST is and how it treats and treats the Croats in BiH. Well, I don't see anyone here who thinks anything bad, or who doesn't treat the Croats well in his thinking of BiH. What's so real about it, that might be something to talk about. So, we all need to do everything in agreement together because I think about these very few points, when it comes to the Croatian people in BiH, about the Croatian national minority in Europe or about Croatian emigrants in Europe and the whole world, we need to find a consensus on which we will talk and cooperate, not a story to which we will share politically and try to reach points. So, what I'm saying is, the question of mixed committees, I repeat, it hasn't existed since yesterday, it's been there since 2005, so for many years now, and it's a good mechanism, but it needs to be devoted to it and it needs to be entered into that whole story, it needs to be seen what agreements between these countries are now, and then it will be understood. Finally, you're talking to your colleagues from the national minorities here, so you'll see how and how it works. And you have a Assembly Committee on Croats who I think can say something about it, so anything is available, ask, ask what we can and what we know, we'll say everything and we'll deliver it in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142781	There were three replicas on your exhibit. The first representative is Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Sladolev's, therefore, the whole engagement in the Parliament, and therefore prepares Given that my colleague, Milas, by the end of the day, has so far elaborated this matter concerning the clearness of the HS Declaration, I would like to say here that both the Committee and the Government, we have done everything and the parliamentary majority to reach a consensus on the text of the declaration because we felt that this was the best message for those working to deconstitute Croats in BiH. [[Intruder: Excuse me, counselor, please speak to the Secretary of State.]] I am very disappointed that some parties, so here, specifically MOST, while you are already here in this Chamber, have not seen, so to speak, the importance of this national consensus, the state consensus in the Republic of Croatia in relation to the situation of the Croats in BiH and that they left the assembly when it was voted on, and without, so to speak, one argument which was controversial in that declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142783	You're out of time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142784	Thank you very much. I thank MP Ljubic for the supplement, so I mentioned and talked about the declaration that was made, I repeat, in the tenth and ninth months of 2018, so she will be part of the 2018 report, and why the report now for 2017, so I believe, because you have a lot of work to do, a lot of law, a lot of decisions, and I repeat, is not a report, so if things go well, then it's never too late if everything... Thank you for the update on the declaration. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142785	Thank you. My colleague Ljubic, since you abused the Rules of Procedure, but I let you... Now I'll also tell you when you refer to the replica, direct and criticise the secretary of state, and not some previous person who spoke for the club, and on the other hand, you obviously need to remember one 15 minutes that you explained here on behalf of your club when you were told why it was deleted somewhere, remember, and you'll understand why some of the small parties were against your declaration and with full rights. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Representative Lovrinovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142786	Mr. Secretary of State, you say here, so we are all unique about the situation that we should fight for the Croats, so sure, but who are these all, one 10 people you have, from the SDP only a colleague, they care less anyway, but you from the HDZ, from the same two are from BiH, but it seems we have certified representatives of the Croats from BiH, probably for life and in BiH no other Croatian party can succeed because there are no finances, you are the owners there, you are the compatriots of this structure that betrays the Republic, how will you fight for the Croats in BiH when you break everything here? So I say, when the next government comes, we will participate in it, but surely you won't be the ones you've represented so far, you won't be a spare ballot box for the behaviour of the authorities in the Republic and there because the Croats have two enemies there, one of them are external, and the other are our people who are doing evil to our people there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142787	The answer to the line, so you'll have a colleague of the bush say, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142788	May I? Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović, so I wouldn't talk about who will win the election, who will be the next government, I want everyone who will fight for it, success and I want to really in politics or in cooperation with our people in BiH, Croats at all where they live, to be successful and to be as God commands, and I repeat, everyone in their lives through what they have done, and you as a Dean of the Faculty of Economics, have had the opportunity to really help and do some things that will contribute to the better lives of your countrymen who have stayed in Posavina, so here we are doing and we will continue to be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142789	Mr. Grmoy's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142790	Dear Vice President, I am looking for a break in the name of the MOST Club on charges brought by my colleague Ljubic, I am very calm in the interest of the Croats in BiH, it could also be seen from my question to the gentleman, and you used this debate again instead of working on consensus and support for the Croats in BiH, you used this to attack the representatives of the Most, even though you forgot to say that your original declaration that you prepared together, for which we gave you suggestions, that you gave up, means, in the end, you gave up, and that such a position of giving up on that original declaration which was much more powerful in support of the Croats in BiH, supported your party, Milian Brkić at the Committee on Croatians outside the country, but also Mr. Miro Kovac, who criticised the leadership of HDZ and Prime Minister Plenković because you have been in aweak. We were not against the declaration, if we were against it then would have against it and voted, but we couldn't support it because you rejected amendments that would have made that declaration as strong as that original declaration of which you under the pressure of party discipline unfortunately had to give up, that's the real truth, I don't want any conflicts here, we need to stand together to protect the rights of Croats in BiH and there's no need to accuse you here now, that you are going back to what it was, but we need to look forward to what we can do for our brothers and sisters in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142791	Are you looking for a break? Are you the one who broke the Rules of Procedure or are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142792	I'm looking for a break, I don't really know what to do, 'cause I don't have anything for a break. So I'm looking for a break, so also on behalf of the club to discuss it, and also to let the public hear it. So, on the declaration we worked for over a year, on the text, we consulted with clubs that we were convinced in the first row that they would support it and I believed that MOST would do it, as you know in your club I personally, therefore, spoke to you and your associates. So, the declaration is absolutely supported by all of the Croatian political parties from BiH because it was at the debate at the General Council of the Croatian National Assembly in BiH. Therefore, it contains exactly what the Croats of BiH expect from the Republic of Croatia, therefore, both the parliamentary majority and the opposition. So, the text that's been completed is actually done only by its formulations, so that it doesn't in any way harm, so, RH, and actually none, so to speak, the finding there and the recommendation is actually not left out, they're just differently formulated. But my colleague Grumoja, I will now tell you what I failed to tell you then, in fact you've been trying to score political points on this issue, but unfortunately for you, you haven't gotten them, these choices that are behind us right now show. Therefore, it is regrettable and does not serve you the honor of not actually staying in the hall and expressing your attitude towards that declaration, but you have actually cowardly escaped from the assembly and not for the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142793	Representative Škorić, you have reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142794	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Article 238 has been injured. persons looking for a break, so they're talking about a point that's not [[/Intruder: Who hurt the article?]] the agenda point, so... [[Intruder: Two people asked for a break.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142795	Excuse me, two people wanted a break, two MPs, who hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142796	He's hurt, he's hurt. Article 238 is replaced by the following: [[/Intruder: Who?]] So here we're discussing the report...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142797	Representative Škorić, please answer my question. Which one of your MPs caused you to commit a violation of the Rules of Procedure, who hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142798	Because of the representatives of Grumoja and colleagues.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142799	Mr. Grmoy's representative put out, you didn't raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure at the time, so I would ask you to sit down, you don't have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, you're out of time for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Grmoy's representative, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142800	So, dear colleague Ljubic I will remain above this and these charges of politics, unfortunately you are wrestling through everything. Article 238 was injured where a colleague came across me and the political option I represent by claiming that we are fighting for Croats in BiH for some political points. [[Employer: A representative of the Grmoi which article was injured?]] I will stay out of it and invite you to reason and consensus and joint action for the interests of Croats in BiH, if you were doing this Croatians would be in Much better. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a situation. [[Intruder: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142801	Time's up. I'm setting a 20-minute break. I hope we'll be better quality in a better debate in 20 minutes. Thank you. It's 11:00.25. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.43 HOURS]] Representative Bozo Ljubic also called for the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142803	Dear Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with fellow Members, we have the Annual Report on the implementation of the strategy and the law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017. Analyzing this report, and even more by following the work and results on the ground, they can only conclude that the office fills and improves its role in the implementation of strategies and laws, programmes and decisions of the Government and recommendations of the Croatian Parliament. With its work, the office has affirmed itself as a central state institution for relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. From the text of the report, and in particular from the table in the annexes, we can see that the funds are committed in accordance with the Republic of Croatia's budget, but also according to the priorities in one balanced manner, respecting the provisions and strategies of the law on relations between the Republic of Croatia. We can conclude from this point of view that the Central State Office completed its mission in 2017 and tasks in an appropriate way, respecting the resources available, of course and the office, and we would all like them to be bigger. However, it should be noted that the total funds increased by 33.5% compared to 2016. Although the office through its report, but the State Secretary himself in the opening presentation, informed us about the office's activities over the past year, I feel the need to further point out some things and comment on them. The fact that the activities of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are not only seen through the activities of the office but they have a much wider both financial and political dimension. In fact, Croatia has developed a very coherent and effective institutional framework for dealing with Croatian issues outside the Republic of Croatia. So, besides the Central State Office, these are also the Croatian Emigrants Queen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Office of the President is finally there, and the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which I have the honour of chairing. All these institutions and many others, including government ministries and offices such as The central state office for renovation and housing is based on the strategy and law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The Croatians in BiH funds allocated through the Central State Office for Support of Cultural, Scientific, Health, Educational, Croatian Church Institutions in BiH increased by 17.5% compared to 2016 in 2017. In doing so, the office continues its good practice of supporting institutions and projects of strategic importance, which will have its long-term impact on the sustainable stay and development of the Croatian national entity in BiH. It is co-financed projects to build and rebuild schools, student and student homes and places in which they are supported to confirm what is said in advance and prove that all Croatians are taken care of no matter where they live. Here I will only list some Posuje, Novi Travnik, Kiseljak, Uskoplje, Široki Brijeg, Mostar, Livno, Sarajevo, Zepce, Tuzla, Banja Luka. It is important to point out that in most Croatian areas such as Herzegovina's example and Central Bosnia co-finance projects that are of all Croatian importance to Croats in BiH, such as BiH. University of Mostar where Croatians and not only Croats from all parts of BiH and not only BiH are educated in Croatian but also from the Republic of Croatia. The University of Mostar, the government of the Republic of Croatia has also allocated additional funds of 5 million kuna. When it comes to health care, the situation is similar I will only list some places Kresevo, Odzak, Rav, Tomislavgrad, Usora, Nova Bila, Mostar and.../incomprehensible/... approach. In addition to these funds, the government of the Republic of Croatia has singled out 41 million kuna in coordination with the Central State Office to support the KBC in Mostar. Again similar to the university, it is the KBC in which the services of highly differentiated territorial health care are available to all Croats from BiH and of course not only the Croats because this centre in synergy with the Faculty of Medicine and the Faculty of Health Studies has grown into one of the leading health institutions in BiH. I reiterate, with the great help of the government and universities, professors and doctors from the Republic of Croatia. A few days ago, a few weeks ago, in fact, at a meeting in Mostar, we could hear that today only about 3% of patients of the former number are referred to treatment in Croatia or outside of the Mostar KBC, and all others are able to receive services of highly differentiated healthcare in Mostar. Here I would also like to point out the support for the manifestations and institutions of Croatian culture in BiH, to support the completion of Croatian encyclopedias in BiH, the construction of the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar. I am particularly pointing out that it will have long-term importance both for fostering the truth about the contribution of Croats to BiH science, culture, economy, politics, sports, throughout history and today but also for the development of a common Croatian national being in the future. It should also point out here, technical assistance and development assistance provided by training majority Croatian municipalities and counties in the design and application of EU funds based on obligations under the strategy and law, national strategies but also strategic national and state-owned interests of the Republic of Croatia here should particularly highlight the support the government led by President Plenkovic to achieve Croatia's national consistency and equality in BiH on both bilateral and multilateral terms through EU and NATO institutions whose Croatia is a full member. President Plenkovic himself has stayed in BiH several times during the term of the government and has never bypassed the majority Croatian areas in all parts of BiH. A diplomatic consular network in BiH has been completed, so we have consulates in Tuzla, Banja Luka, Mostar, Knights and Livno in addition to the embassy in Sarajevo. The network has strong symbolic significance, as a message to the Croats in all parts of BiH that Croatia is with them. This network also has a substance meaning and will certainly contribute to the remnant of Croats in its hearth through economic co-operation and sustainable development. Croatian Chamber of Commerce in Sarajevo and Mostar and HRT correspondence in Mostar and Sarajevo were also opened. The Croatian president's commitment and the fact that the prime minister and president have often been the target of criticising those who do not understand that the preservation of the political subjectivity of Croats in BiH is of interest to BiH's survival and prosperity. Such have also obstructed the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision to amend the electoral law that should allow the constituent peoples to choose legitimate political representatives in the homes of the people, entities and state and the BiH presidency, which is impossible only for Croats according to disputed and abolished articles of the electoral law. The consequences of this irresponsible obstruction today are suffered by all in BiH because here, over 7 months after the elections, we do not have a constitutional government at the level of the Federation of BiH, the BiH state, which is why neither the ones that have been established can achieve the desired result. The Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia held its participation with representatives of the government, the Office of the President and senior political representatives from BiH thematic session on the subject of the position of Croats in BiH and the European path of BiH, which presented the draft declaration of the Croatian Parliament, which is unanimously supported by the votes of all representatives of all clubs on the board and set out as a proposal that ended last year to a large majority of votes in the Croatian Parliament and adopted. Croatia truly wants BiH on its way to the EU to prove technical assistance in the preparation and translation of documents necessary for a credible application for the EU, and to assist and hand over applications for BiH's candidate status. This shows the fact that BiH is defined as a programme state in Croatia's foreign policy strategy. The central state office in co-operation with the RS embassies continues to provide financial and technical assistance to Croatian minorities in 12 countries of Europe. This occasion should point out that all Croatian.../incomprehensible/... are not as such recognised in certain countries, it is about Slovenia, although Slovenians are recognised as a national minority in the Republic of Croatia. A similar and somewhat different situation is with the Republic of Italy, although the agreement recognises the two countries, therefore the national minority in the province of Molise, but Croats living in the regions of Furlania - the Julian province do not recognise such status. However, the Croatian minority is not properly resolved in countries where it is recognised as such as the Republic of Serbia. We therefore expect the status of the Croatian minority in Serbia to be resolved in accordance with the agreement and standards that Croatia has resolved the status of the Serb minority in the Republic of Serbia. To begin the harassment of members of the Croatian minority and to allow members of the Croatian minority a mandate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the minority list. Last year, the committee held a thematic session with the participation of legitimate representatives of the Croatian minority in Serbia dedicated.../incomprehensible/... Serbia when the issue of the Croatian minority is considered from all aspects. Croatia's diaspora worldwide, the Croatian diaspora has made a decisive contribution to the establishment of democracy, independence, defence, democratic recognition of the Republic of Croatia diplomatically. It is estimated to be only in the financial period since '91. By 2011, more than 100 billion dollars have entered the country from the diaspora, estimated to be more than 2 billion euros per year from the diaspora in Croatia, which is my estimate of 10% of the Croatian budget. When we know that, it is extremely hypocritical and offensive to hear from opponents of the vote of our citizens outside Croatia that those who do not pay taxes should not vote in it. Did anyone ask for confirmation of the tax paid from those who came to the country, defend it, die in defense of their country from the diaspora? Fellow Members and colleagues, all present mobility related to globalisation processes, new communication channels and social media benefits enables us to create new heritage even if we are not physically present in the country. This also gives Croatian emigrants a new social and cultural integration role at all levels. It is therefore extremely important that the Central State Office recognized this and focus work based on support for Croatian language learning projects, universities in Croatia and on the line, funding programmes and projects of Croatian diaspora publishing activities and scholarship students. Here it should point out that the office is for 2017. – 2018 approved 232 scholarships for Croatian language learning in Croatia. The same trail includes informing Croats outside Croatia by introducing 5 channels of HRT intended mainly for Croatians in the diaspora. However, there is much more to be done on this plan, and this is also highlighted in the proposals of members of the government's council for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing that part of these proposals is already being implemented on the plan to include the Croatian diaspora in the socio-political and ethnic life of Croatia. In front of the extraordinary activities and results of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, which I have spoken a lot about here, I would also like to highlight the activity of the government's advice and the Committee on Croatians outside of Croatia that I chair. Last year we held the thematic session of the Committee, where representatives of Croatian diaspora institutions, government councils, Croatian World Congress, Croatian Immigrant Congress, Economic Associations, etc. took part. After an exhaustive debate, two sets of conclusions were adopted that were sent to the relevant institutions of the Republic of Croatia for knowledge and treatment. There's no need for me to talk more about it today, but I'm only going to mention some points of these conclusions. First, to speed up the process of receiving Croatian citizenship of Croatian emigrants, already in the process as we have heard. Two, to comply with the Law on Foreigners with the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with the Croats from the Republic of Croatia, the Council passed last year on a proposal from the Committee to adopt an amendment to the Law on Foreigners who partially resolve this, therefore more implementing acts should be adopted. Three, draw up an action plan strategy for the return of emigrants to the Republic of Croatia and define immigration policy. So here's what I'm initiating, and maybe we're also thinking about the Immigration Act as a possible initiative, so today's debate. To create a register of emigrants of the Republic of Croatia in collaboration with the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the conclusion is already in the realization. To work on amendments and additions to the election laws, to allow for a letter and electronic vote for members of the Croatian people abroad, especially our compatriots from the diaspora stress the need to change the Constitution or increase the number of representatives of the Croatian Parliament from outside Croatia. However, as we know, these issues require much broad support in the Croatian Parliament rather than the parliamentary majority itself, but it certainly needs to be discussed. There's still a whole set of conclusions of economic character and the sphere of information about what... a report by the competent governmental institution of the HRT and the HGK. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both colleagues and colleagues, I am convinced that part of the joint positive assessment of the activities of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as well as other institutions constitutionally responsible for this. The HDZ Club therefore supports this adoption report in the Croatian Parliament. As for therefore some specific issues such as the situation of the Croats in BiH, I will discuss this much more specifically in my individual debate and now allow me, with gratitude and drink, to remember our recently late colleague Dr. Ivan Bagarić, who was in this Parliament in two terms and who, during his second term, initiated and to the greatest extent with his colleagues, government and parliamentary majority and the entire parliament, created the basis that today we have this institutional framework, so the strategy of the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of which this central state office, whose report we are discussing today, and therefore of which we are witnessing positive achievements for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So here we are once again to remember our colleague Ivan Bagarić with a drink and gratitude, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142804	Thank you. The Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club also requested participation in the debate, MP Ivica Misic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142805	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you State Secretary of the Croatian Office. I think this report is made by the Croatian office outside Croatia, looking at the statistics and donations you gave to the Croats, and I will especially return to the donations to BiH. I think by looking at and observing all these donations, you've been very correct, although you might say that you might be more able to isolate the poor rather than the rich. Why am I saying that? I want to say more about Bosnia than about Herzegovina, which is stable, which has already been resolved, I want to talk about Croats who are in BiH, especially Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Doboj, Brcko and all of Serbia's particularly. We're wondering today what we've done in the last 30 years, in fact 25 years since the end of the war, how much we've helped, I'm just going to talk about the refugees of Posavina Croats, about 138 000 with Banja Luka, about 250 000 who came out of Bosnia Posavina, Banja Luka, Doboja, how much we've done for them, what we've done for them, what all the governments have done to make it better today. What has all the governments done to make it better today? I must tell you the truth, I'm not satisfied with the governments so far with what they've been doing, how much they've helped, the kind that's been driven from their hearth and we need to know, especially in Bosnia's Posavina, that we were the majority people. Unfortunately, Dayton happened, unfortunately we were expelled, thank God we didn't die more than we did, and in the end, about 5,000 people died in Bosnia's Pavina, not all in the war, there were crimes that had nothing to do with the war. Of course, they are not convicted, so the question is why are we leaving BiH, why are we leaving Croatia? Looking at the politics of the Croatian state, not only how we got Croatia but also about the former Yugoslavia since '41. By '45, not to mention all the exiles, the crimes committed in Bleiburg, which our people had to leave, Yugoslavia or communists who disagreed with that policy. Then we experienced the Homeland War in '91. Mr who we did not want, of course, that we Croats in BiH supported BiH as a state, we wanted to live in it, survive and participate in democracy, of course, we are a constituent people, no more BiH belongs to anyone than we do to the Croats, we should not be courting Muslims or Serbs because that BiH is as much ours as it is theirs. And not to go into history where we were the majority people and BiH was finally free to say, in ancient times, even the entire Catholic and Croatian. If we talk a little bit about crimes, we can talk about Brcko, Banja Luka, Prijedor, Eggs, Doboj, Sarajevo, Central Bosnia. Here once upon a time, a little while ago, a month ago maybe, I don't know the exact date, the village of Brishevo near Prijedor, killed 67 people in that village who surrendered, no one answered about the crime. The same neighbours have erected monuments in Brishevo and today they are all broken monuments, I ask our government open, I ask Serbs in BiH, do you want Croats, do you want cooperation with us, I would say not. Of course, these are individuals, so to speak today, although the politics of the Serbian Republic itself do not give confidence that they would like to return to Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we know, say in Vienna there are 80,000 Posaviaans, only in Vienna, and that's what people who do, who have their own companies, who, being good in Vienna, who make houses for them even though so far neither the International Community nor, I have to admit, the governments so far have not helped much. I still think today, if we look at the context of today's policy, I think it's a far-off level and it's going towards a better thing that Bosnia and Herzegovina is worth it and that the Croats are coming back a little bit. So I'd also ask you from the office, because I see you, I've seen it a little bit, you've given a lot in Savino and Bosnia, but still, we're thinking about the upper parts, I won't talk about Herzegovina because there's a lot of you who'll talk about Herzegovina that you represent, there's not much of us Bosnians. I don't think Herzegovina needs any more help in that part, should, of course, but these poor neighborhoods, people... , to build a school somewhere where there are some Croats, in Bugojn, let's say where our children can't wear crosses, go to school, make school, look at education even though there is a university in both Mostar and Orsje, and that has to be recognised a lot of work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must, like politics and our government and everyone else, make one pressure on the Serbian Republic, see how long they think, why they do it, also towards the Federation. We made a declaration that, this revote of us Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think it leads anywhere, and it has to be solved, and that's what we've been thinking about on our committees. We need to know, let's say in Banja Luka 500 Croats were killed where there was no war. We had 30,000 Croats in Banja Luka now out of 5,000. Not only are they not there, but they must not be made known. They're scared. We in Croatia have recognised all minorities, we have an example here is a colleague Ljubic speaking in Slovenia. We have admitted Slovenians, there are 10 thousand in Croatia, our 50,000 in Slovenia, somewhere more or less but here somewhere, we are not a minority. I'm not against minorities, I want minorities to feel comfortable in the Croatian state, I want to give them rights, I want them to have everything every man needs in every country. But if a country like Slovenia doesn't want to admit us, as minorities, I don't think they deserve to be with us either. Serbs in Croatia get everything, they have everything. We wonder how Croats live in Vojvodina, Serbia and Belgrade. There's no definition. We haven't solved it, and they're constantly pressing on us. After all the crimes they've committed not to list, there's a lot of them. After this war, I don't want to tell Vukovar and the rest of what they did to us. In the end, as a man, I must say, they're not even ashamed. I have the impression that they're proud of it, and not as a man for all crimes, I would apologize for the Croatians, and I don't want a crime to be a crime without a court. I'm afraid we're too soft a people, that we're the people who forgive before we should, that we haven't processed everything we needed, that we've failed in a lot of things and we're wondering why the Croats are leaving us. I've been through a lot of worlds, I've seen Croats, I've been to Australia and South Africa twice, Germany and around. All the people who were born there loved Croatia very, very, very much, in the '80s I was in Australia for 3 months, I got the impression that these people from Australia would walk across the sea, they loved Croatia so much. And why don't we bring these people back today, that's the question. It's been a long time, I'd say in a political mess. Today, when I'm watching politics, I'm watching and I'm going in there myself because I haven't done it, I've been doing my job for 40 years, and today I think politics, I'd say it's rolling into nice chairs, good pay, and we don't have to think about ourselves, at least, and we're all paid to think about people behind this Parliament, about people, about our people outside Croatia and certainly in Croatia. Making order in a mess is very difficult. I am aware of that and I know that it is not easy to lead politics, to be prime minister, to be minister, but it is an honor and responsibility, as it is to me to be here today and to speak before this House. The other day, here in Bosnia's Posavina in Tolisa I was, there were Dani Tolise, I'd say it's a little Vinkova autumn. There were 1,000 people in the hall, young people from folklore, there were about 15, no, the village so they couldn't take it anymore, maybe there would be 30, I was amazed. And where did I grieve? No TV came to record it. I'm asking now, gentlemen, journalists, television, so don't you want to show these Croats who want to survive, who want to do something? No, I don't. If it had happened in some other part of BiH, it probably would have been. Was there someone to tell you to come over there and there, and there's no one here. I'd say so, no hard feelings, no. Here I am from the Brčan municipality, but here's no donations to Brcko for years. But well, maybe they didn't ask, it's nothing special, nothing special, I'm not mad at it because I think we live better than they do... and surrounding. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She's gone, thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It doesn't matter because I know we live there solidly, and that's what's more important to me than to give to the poor there than to the rich. Why am I saying that? We have from the Bosnian Ship to the Derventa very many Croats, you know that Derventa was 41% Croat and everyone else, so we were a majority people, we're not here today. We try to do something there and people want to come back, squeeze maybe the International Community to help and build these houses, make some school Croatian where people might. You know, watching from the parliament or Zagreb chair, talking about the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina sitting in Zagreb, that's not it. Living in Bosnia, passing, then and seeing, you have passed how many Croats hold to Croatianism or how much they want to stay in that country. So we're the ones who have to let them do it. It wasn't much, I have to admit, it wasn't much, like they wanted to forget us, like they didn't need us. I'm talking about the Bosnian Croats, Herzegovina, thank God you've got you so much to protect and do. I'm not jealous of it, but I'm very sad that they didn't do more in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our businessmen are struggling hard to build some companies, they might be surprised, I would like these Assembly MPs to pass this Oraška area, the Brčan area, and to see, and Tuzlansko where 64% of Tuzla is Croatian area, to see what people have done fighting without politics, where politics is not exactly something special. And in Tuzla, they've done all the honors, and I'm glad in the center of Tuzla they've restored the church and actually what it's called, but that's good. I have to say, in the last maybe five years or three years, it's been giving more attention. And thank you for that. I have to protect that part of the world from here. It's not just my obligation, it's how I feel. I would like all those who have not passed Bosnia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to pass the villages a little bit, to see that people, to see how much they have souls, how valuable they are and how not politicians, the truth, do not deal with politics and deal with the economy and order and work. And that's what we here have to support, of course I as the Bosnian Pavljak will influence both the prime minister and all of you here to help that people and this office we're talking about then, I can thank them and Zvonko I think this is good and it's one of the best things Croatia has done for Croats outside Croatia. And please, I ask you to speak more to those poor people, those we can raise, which is our area, where our country is, where we can survive and believe that we will survive and we will not be expelled from the Bosnian Posavina and the rest. Dodik needs to be influenced because this is, I can't say, the utter insolence where 67 people have been killed and these monuments have gone up and they've broken it. So it's sad and they were still digging and throwing. Therefore, please influence Dodik and the Serbian Republic to be courted once, to see with them are Croats people who only want to live and nothing else. They won't let themselves be driven out of their homes because I don't think they'll ever be able to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142806	Thank you, too. Now we move on to individual debates, first Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142807	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Milos with his associates. The constitutional obligation of the Croatian State is to worry, i.e. care for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatians in the diaspora. And of course the majorisation of Croats in the Croatian country, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not only a Bosniak bad policy, i.e. Their policy rather than the guilty part is Croatia's policy towards that part of the Croatian people who followed the great bloodline for both the independent Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina because Croatians are those who were always on the bumper and mainly in the 1990s Bosnia and Herzegovina. And these are mainly the areas that are mentioned, of course, the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina were given to the Croats but only when we look at what happened in Posavina, in Central Bosnia with the Croats, what their role and sacrifice is and what the territory of this part of Herzegovina is. I would speak here means part of it, aspect of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and of course Croats in other countries where they are a national minority and where I would like Croats to have the same as they do. in Serbia, Hungary and others, Montenegro, as they have minorities in the Republic of Croatia because we know that minorities in the Republic of Croatia in this House are not minorities but a majority. Whether it is possible to happen, here someone now says that in most cases there will be a national minority of Croatia in Serbia or somewhere else, it is impossible. But if this is impossible, so it is minimal to protect these people in that area of Croatia maximum and to always be a condition when entering any association of Serbia or any other country that Croatia, national minorities in those countries live the same, have the same conditions as national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and should insist on it. The survival of these people in this area is most important. This is national security mainly at this point if we are talking about the country's country of origin of people and Croats from BiH, I have an obligation to speak about it because I was in the Homeland War for a year in this area, and I believe that the HVO with the Croatian Army, the HoS and other troops play a major role in the defence of the BiH area, if not crucial in preventing war criminals mainly when we mention the Bihaćka Enclavu where the Croatian soldier is together, I also believe that I do not repeat it, where the Croatian soldier stopped the bloodshed of Ratko Mladic, which was greater than in Srebrenica. And this should repeat that, it is the Croats in BiH who were on the defender of the country and Croatia, and that bloodline of the people from that part is also responsible for Croatia's freedom and for BiH's freedom. And that's our constitutional obligation as colleagues and colleagues. And because of that when we talk about a declaration in the BiH area we were looking for, we know here colleagues have been saying that a small exit of these people, we are an amendment, the MOST Club has asked that we have a correspondence electronic vote to allow people in those areas, you have not accepted gentlemen. Don't make me sad that people who aren't from that area didn't accept it, and unfortunately there is that, it's a minimum to be a greater turnout. You did not accept that the rights of students, who study here, have as citizens, as well as citizens in the Republic of Croatia, are absolutely the same if we want people to survive in this area, otherwise if this policy continues, not only majorisation, but self-regreement policy, too much love for people in this area, I am afraid that the Croats from BiH will leave, I see it from the point of view that I live near the border with people in the territory of Herzegovina and I see that these areas... there is an empty, and from the point of view of national security, an empty space where the Republic of Croatia is the easiest and where Croats in the area where they have lived, it is for national security one, at this moment when we have huge villages, epic proportions through, as they are called, by migration or as they are now called, that space is also nationally endangered by all aspects, and these can be people who are much more professional, who stress this danger where the territory of the lower part remains and the hinterland of the Dalmatian empty, and so this figure goes up and up, but now we're talking about that part. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it's a significant survival of the people in that area and for the national security of the Republic of Croatia and I expect it to be clear, this is when we brought that declaration which, I think, is incomprehensible to me that the Croatian soldier was in HV, has no real help because he was left down alone, down in the Federation, we... in the minority, there is no legal assistance from the Croatian state. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are these people, these soldiers were both in the Croatian military, as a result of the war in BiH, of course I was in Bosnia, that was the time in the interest of the defence of the Republic of Croatia, but also BiH. In my opinion, we need to look ourselves in the eye and in the mirror and say that the majorization of Croats is guilty and we ourselves because we didn't care enough about these people, and I'm afraid if this policy continues, of these little things and of the self-esteem that are important measures, but not enough that we don't lose the Croats in BiH, that's a huge problem, that we wouldn't be... one people, but not at all, so that we don't disappear on time, that's the first and I'm sorry that these things that we suggested were not accepted in the declaration, and not just brought the declaration because of the declaration, and that was in the proposal for a declaration, we all know that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we would move on, we see that the great now Croatian emigration outside the Republic of Croatia, the whole family, so this is not about the 60s, the 50s, the '70s to get a man out of the house, the husband left, the children would live here and the women and remain families, as well as in Herzegovina. But now there's a problem in Ireland, what are you doing about Ireland? Did you do anything there? We have a huge problem, but we have to point out, I was in Munich a few months ago, so, worse in our mission, I talked to people, not when people are going great worse, not saying it's great when they leave, but the fact that we have new areas where the Croats are going and where the office and the whole government should take measures, and of course the most important measure is the survival of people in the Republic, and also in BiH, it's the most important measure and not that they're just the busses that I see that people must have figured out, that they're being transported to vote, to serve them as a voting machine, to create them addicts, people in BiH must be independent, and about the Croats in Serbia what to say? What about the Croats in Serbia? We simply see that these numerous Chetnic derneci, for example in Krtovci, have seen behaviour towards these people where in one day thousands of people have moved out of the area, simply still threatened by the Chetnik Duke Seselj, the policy of the current Alexander Vukic and his assistant do nothing about the protection of Croatians, Croats in Serbia, and I really expect that the Croatian government, this and the future and all the tribals will do, protect the Croats in, to be a national minority, is the fact that in the Republic, the Serbian national minority is in power in most of them, I am currently, here are fellow Beljak and all here, in the minority. Is it possible that this could happen, examples cannot be Croats in BiH where they are a constitutional people, so what kind of Croatian politics is that? What kind of Croatian diplomacy is that? I mean, and we are a member of the EU, and these two countries are not EU member states longing to come to the EU and a colleague is well said at one point by Misic, Croats must be equal in BiH, they don't need to, the Croatian state has to make it possible for them, we are an EU member, we are calling for strength, but the fact is that they only agree what What in the Federation to other parties, and also in Republika Srpska Mr. Dodig, is not good. [[/Intruder: Mr. Bull's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142808	You have one replica, Mr. Ljubic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142809	My colleague Bulj, I know that you are a well-intentioned man compared to the Croats in BiH, so I have not reported that I objected to anything, as far as the declaration itself is concerned, in fact I am sorry that it was not oral because as far as I could understand it, there was nothing that was disputed here in HS and on the left and right sides of the assembly, and that some sides were not inside which someone else wanted, believe me, and I would have put a lot of it, however, it was actually formulated in a way to get the best for the Croats in BiH, and in no way does Croatia make it difficult to advocate for the Croats in BiH. So much for that. As for political representatives in BiH, therefore, I am aware that we are not ideal, I know it could have been better, but these are people that the Croatian people in BiH have consensually supported in the elections, so it actually chooses the best of what is available. So these are the things we should respect And always try to do better. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142810	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142811	Coli Ljubic, you know when they were students from the field, Croats from the BiH area and that then together and you, among other things, are one of the representatives and I, one of the representatives and other fellow MPs, signed to be a scholarship of our Croatian students who have citizenship, of course, and students who are from Croatia. It's not accepted. And you mention in your speech here that the correspondence vote is electronic. And we don't put that in the declaration. You do not accept amendments, to allow greater turnout, mainly for people to be educated and to have the ability to influence policies with their own voice. It deserves that people, it's the minimum they deserve, you didn't accept it. Why didn't you accept the amendment we gave and what was signed with the students, so give me the answer. And of course, why don't you help me with the Croatian soldier in BiH who's been in HVO to give legal aid without being persecuted like beasts in loneliness. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142812	Time. We continue with individual debates. Now it's Mr. Miroslav Tudjman's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Already, I have said and others have said that they commend these efforts of the Central Office for Croatians outside Croatia and this report, which is fully and methodically written. However, I think we should say that perhaps we should have a complete picture of all the efforts that are being made to improve Croatians and to connect with the queen of Croatia, that perhaps this report should be made even more extensive with the awareness that it comes out of the competence of the Central Office Act itself, but that we still have a complete picture. The clear point is, what has already been said, that there are other committees that are discussing these problems, therefore, cannot be put all this together inside, but there can be a summary of something from the political dimension of the summary in this report. I'd like to give a few examples. Look. And here is the focus so far on what has been said on different sides, the focus is placed on the position of Croats in BiH. The clear point is that the position of Croats is a matter of the security and survival of the Croats themselves in BiH, that it is a question of the future of BiH, if you will and that it is a matter of regional security. But if we want to sum up all these political problems in a few sentences, then we can do it the next way. The basic document providing any country with a future and defining the values on which that State is defined is the Constitution. 3 constituent peoples in BiH have never agreed or declared themselves, either in a referendum, or in the BiH parliament on their constitution. It should be reminded of those who may forget, that the BiH Constitution is an Annex to the Peace Agreement and that the Constitution has actually imposed again, through the history of BiH, what once was BiH under different times imposed by large forces, i.e. the international community. The constituent people by definition mean having the right to determine the Constitution, the constitution of a state, therefore, is the fundamental right to which all three peoples in BiH should be provided. Unfortunately, that is not so, and the fact is that there is no consensus between the three peoples, and the international community in the current circumstances, for these or those reasons, is not interested in dealing with BiH in particular. However, it is only a political dimension, it should in some ways summarise progress in achieving the constitutionality and rights of the Croatian people, the constituent people in BiH. However, there are other projects that make me think that here because of the coordination of different institutions, because of the synergy needed, which should be listed here, would be to the extent that they should be initiated or to the extent that they are already in the process and that they should be done further. Mr. Milas said that a series of agreements have been signed between different universities, so this cooperation is not only on the educational plan or language learning, I think that cooperation should also be stimulated when it comes to scientific projects, making master's degree and doctorate, that even non-hrvats can be stimulated, or these projects stimulated, if they are engaged in research by Croats in other countries. Clearly, it can be largely covered by university agreements, but there are countries where these agreements do not exist, therefore there should be room for such options. Or you have one problem that is common not only to Croatia in relation to minorities in other countries but practically to all European countries, which is the distribution of television programs intended for minorities. This distribution, for example, of HTV, cannot be watched in the part where it transmits certain programmes, by foreign programmes for which additional funding is needed for the payment of copyright fees or what is called already copyrighted, yes, not fee, but this contribution would, this is a problem common to the EU, there would be this project, this requirement to facilitate the distribution of these programmes in other countries, and intended for minorities should be defined, harmonised with a specific directive in the European Parliament, and therefore it would be necessary for all parliamentarians and Croatian, but also for other simple arrangements and for that to be done. Either you have another problem, let's say we had projects of the Dubrovnik Republic, or Croatian kings, it's big projects of television, but we could also do big projects like 500 years of citizen Croats or these indigenous Croatian communities from Hungary, Austria, Italy that should, where Croatia should be the initiator and bearer of these, such programs and projects. It is not only a question of HT she has an obligation to do so, not only of the Central Office and of the government's advice, but also of certain ministries. We should initiate this in a way that makes it a Croatian project, that these communities become involved and that they go into the realization of it. So I think that we need to have these initiatives, and in this report we realize that it is not a task, the primary task of this office, but the signs of the need for them, these projects to be realised, to contribute to their faster realization, and probably the effects would then be much, much better. On the other hand, I'd advocate even more work for you, even though I'm aware that you've had enough of it anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142814	Thank you very much. You have one replica from Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142815	Thank you. A colleague, Tudjman, the problem of BiH, is not only the Croats, therefore, being troubled by unitary chauvinist clubs in BiH, and thus denying the concept of the constitutional consistency of the people in BiH. However, not only that in the part of the international community, but also in Croatia, it is being questioned, in general, what the constitutional structure of BiH means in today's modern world. And the best answer to all of them is this, so in BiH they live, and three separate nations of Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks have formed and, in fact, the constituent nations are so to say in some modern English that so I say they could call themselves a state building nation, so that is the answer to all those who in any way question the consistency as if so I were to say some relic of this former system. If the concept is recognised and the constitutional peoples have the right to choose legitimate representatives The largest part of BiH's problem will be solved. [[Intruder: Time Mr. Ljubic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142816	Thank you. Mr. Tudjman's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142817	Col. Ljubic's clear point is that we have three constituent nations, two of whom advocate a unitarian concept. And the problem is that they formally acknowledge the constitutionality but not that these nations are sovereign, in other words, that they can decide equally on the constitution. However, I think we should just work to realize that federalism is a principle that allows more national communities to survive. Unitarism is the concept that simply disintegrates and destroys these multinational communities and leads to their end. You should say we have often called in this, for example, Switzerland or Belgium, but practically you don't have a European country, or if you want the United States or Canada that isn't on federal grounds, regardless of which are one-national as federal units, states based, but those multinationals and it is time for the international community and three peoples in BiH to understand it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142818	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Ragug. Mr. Zeljko Ragug, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142819	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, the report of the Central State Office for 2017 is a very reviewed document that speaks about the activities of the office and all the efforts the office is taking to make BiH Croats realise their ambitions in the opportunities and frameworks of the countries in which they live. Whether it is about identity issues, whether it is about issues of the political status of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in countries where the status is troubled by the majority. We see from this report that the central state office in collaboration with the Croatian Emigrants Queen, with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, with the Assembly Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, has done one constructive, institutionalized structure that can provide with a stronger takeover and expected results. They can also praise themselves with such results and their efforts as to what we see from these two 2016 and 2017 reports. Today, the debate discussed various aspects of the activities of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Their overall activity can be summed up as an activity that is realised through projects and activities that run within 3 sectors, care for the political situation of Croats outside Croatia whether it is about Croats in BiH, Croatian minorities in 12 European countries or the positions of our organisations in Croatian emigration. All these segments that were discussed, therefore, the economic, demographic, political dimension of the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, I would point out one important dimension for me, which is the question of the right to inform Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Whether it is about Croats who are minorities in European countries or Croats in BiH, to a certain extent and Croats in emigration within those publications, magazines that they publish. In particular, it is important to inform Croatian minorities in European countries that the central state office is helping magazines, newspapers that publish and issue our Croats in European countries in some way compensate for all shortcomings, hence fundamental rights, information rights, key rights which are based on all political rights. In that segment, he would stress the position of Croats in BiH in this power. So for decades and more since the war, the Croatian people in BiH precisely because of these unitarian ambitions of the two other nations, Bosniak and Serb in the entities of the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska, have no radio-television. For two decades now, we have been mired in different ways, and with the help of international structures, we do not need to look for it, even though the other two peoples have it objectively. Why shouldn't we be looking for them? That is why, as part of services which are therefore services of the Bosniak and Serb people in BiH, we can express our political, cultural and any other views in BiH. It's one big lie. So through this segment of limiting the rights of Croats to information in BiH, we need to conclude what ambitions the other two peoples in BiH are and their ambitions are summarised in summary that tomorrow's perspective, today of the Croatian peoples of the constitutional, equal, constitutional, is becoming a national minority, that BiH Croats become a national minority in BiH. A number of colleagues spoke about this segment in European politics, I think that this should be highlighted and underlined for reasons that in the 19th and 20th centuries, all European peoples tried harder and the largest number failed to do so, to reach their national state, a national state in which the majority people become a nation and others are a national minority. The issue is a key issue and which was the subject of a dispute among the peoples in the former Yugoslavia during the fall of the former Yugoslavia. When some of the nations existed national minorities and more or less everyone disagreed. No Croats, no Bosniaks, no Serbs. The Croatian people in Serbia, in Vojvodina, which is today a national minority, have experienced this perspective in a special way, and today we have the consequences of just new knowledge which means being a people, which means being a national minority in a particular country. And on this particular segment, therefore, the issue of information, people or national minorities, is best reflected in the real state of a particular nation or national minority in a country. The Croatian people in BiH and all those who want to help the Croats in BiH, especially the Republic of BiH, must in one more appropriate way and with more commitment to help the Croats in BiH have their own public broadcasting. With the renewal of correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar, HRT helped Croatians in one piece in the segment and in the 5th channel of the Croatians in BiH and Croatian emigration, but it will best help the Croats in BiH when it comes to helping and what has started and what has been done and what has been done and what has helped the central state office to create conditions for the start of Herceg Bosnia and Herzegovina public broadcasting in the Croatian language in BiH so far. This is, in my opinion, a key aid and, as all other assistance and university and theatre and all other projects that have been realised so far are significant but in the basis of rights, the political rights of one nation is the right to information, and I stress this for the second time, and I believe that when the Croats of BiH have their own public radio television that many of the issues that are now subject to doubts in BiH and in particular in BiH and the Republic of Croatia will be better understood and will more objectively approach the search for a solution for the future of BiH. I believe that what I am saying, what I am saying, will help, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will help, and in this way we will create assumptions that all other issues are cultural, political, above all political, which are the subject of a dispute between the peoples of BiH, in a more appropriate way, and I believe that, in my opinion, colleagues who, in an inappropriate way, comment on the periods behind us when political representatives of Croats in BiH have sought solutions for our position, will be valued in a different way, respected all efforts of previous generations of Croats in BiH and that we will have a consensus in HS on BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142820	Two replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142821	Thank you. A colleague, Raguž, is the fact that Croats in BiH do not have their own public television, and that public television is the assumption of the political and cultural and economic existence of a nation. However, here we must stress that just for example, the Croatians of BiH feel this lack of democracy and the international community or the factors of key institutions of the international community that are insensitive to the collective rights of one nation, in this case the Croatian people of BiH. And what's actually the reason why it's being rejected, it's not recognising that other than individual rights, there are collective rights or national rights, and that's actually the core of the problem, and there's a need to see how from the EU to scientific political activities we can change it. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142822	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Mr. Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142823	A fellow Tudjman, just as you said, the international community is not sensitive to the issue of collective rights because it appreciates that out of respect for the collective rights of one nation in a more ethnic state such as BiH, two would raise the issue of BiH's current structure and needs, therefore, new federalisation of BiH in line with the principle of respect for collective rights. As the Dayton Agreement put the issue aside in a certain way when Croats are in BiH, the international community is in this particular concern seeking an alibi for the Croatian people not to be recognised collective rights in segments of legitimate political representation and all other political rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142824	Thank you. Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142825	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Raguž, I often know how to say that to me your discussions, especially when it comes to the position of Croats in BiH, are extremely interesting and useful and I think that the Croatian public should hear this and when you talk about these current political tendencies in BiH and behaviour towards Croats, it is actually below each level, given that they have resolved certain national minorities in other countries. And for the start of a genuine dialogue between the Bosniak people's political parties and the Croatian people, it should certainly be the establishment of a Croatian television or channel for Croats in BiH. If on one side we have that in Banja Luka, or for Bosniaks in Sarajevo, I see no reason why this would not happen with a Croatian television channel based in Mostar, and it is good that you said it this time and should insist on it until this happens. does not establish. [[/Intruder: Mr. Babic's time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142826	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Mr. Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142827	I was talking about the need, therefore, to exercise the right to inform the Croatian people in BiH, because both theory and practice have shown that realising the right to information is based on creating assumptions for the achievement of all other political rights. So just the political representatives of the Bosniak people are aware of this fact we are talking about, have repeatedly stressed that their Bosniak national interest is that Croats in BiH do not have their own public radio television. It's something to be noticed, it's the most escalating example of the ambition of one people to another people, so what I have, I don't want you to have, that you don't want me and what I'm talking about and what I'm doing against you, you discuss and inform others in BiH and in the public of neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142828	Thank you. We're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142829	Dear Vice-President HS, honourable state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues, here is the annual report on implementation of the strategy and the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017. the secretary of state, as well as on behalf of the HDZ Club, spoke very well of this. Ljubic, who was actually talking about a whole series of activities, both from cultural, school, health, help through the resolution of EU projects, by holding the thematic sessions of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, on the position of Croats in BiH, so I do not want to and will not repeat myself. The fact is that in his troubled past, the Croatian people had always suffered from certain hegemons regardless of who it was, if we were to go far away about the Avatars, the Huns, the Ilirim, the Hungarians, the Italians, the Germans and the recent history through great Serbian aggression, so this property for Croatian territory was always interesting for such peoples, and on the other hand, the Croatian people moved in 3 waves of emigration from the Republic of Serbia and it was not really any newspaper. By creating a modern Croatian state and then the Ministry of Immigrant actually the modern Croatian state has shown both the will and the desire to take care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps this is an opportunity for me to remember my colleague, to actually remember him, Mr Ivan Bagarić who worked at the time and on the strategy on the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, from which this Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia actually came, and through this law and in fact the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the Council itself is concerned, I think it is good to say it here because some colleagues have talked about some government concern for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but only the establishment of the Council and its 55 members have been well deployed through representatives of the Croats from BiH and through the representatives of the diaspora and all those institutions that can help. These 55 people who meet, which is on our site, can read the notes and everything they actually talk about on their Council, from the very position of the Croats, the law that is passed, about the Law of Citizenship which I think is a major step forward, and also the Law on residence and here I want to say a few things, so the state as an institution is one powerful weapon. In this case, you are an outcast body, so the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and not a single thing should actually be promoted, and that through an administrative or bureaucratic barrier there is actually an obstacle or brake to anyone today living outside the Republic of Croatia who wants to exercise his rights in any way. We don't just have to look at it through the exercise of voting rights, but also through everything that is related to the economy, through investment, when, I remember very well, with my colleague Bauko talking about when he proposed a Law on residence or residence, I said, we need to understand that a large number of people living outside the Republic of Croatia actually living with a residence in other European countries are actually making it impossible for such legal obstacles that they can keep their money on Croatian banks, that they can invest and that it actually created confusion in our people. When it comes to double taxation of pensions and we've successfully solved that part, and I think it's good, and on your pages I've seen it, so people can get that information in good time. So, economic and demographic reconstruction, the position of members of national minorities, the HRT, the register of Croats living outside the country, is actually being discussed by the Council, and it is commendable and now all you need to do is look at the effects of what is concluded, what can come into the parliamentary procedure that and legally can be resolved. As far as Croats themselves are concerned outside the Republic of Croatia, so 560 thousand Croats in BiH, about 500 thousand Croats, members of national minorities and about 3 million Croats or 3 and a half are said somewhere because they do not know the exact figure, outside the Republic of Croatia, so those living in the diaspora are certainly one force for such a young Croatian state, given its number of residents here and those living outside the Republic, that we have to work far, far, far more on many things, not only through the projects that you do, which each in itself are worthy of already reacting in actual moments. So today we have a problem with an extremely rich country that has fallen into a severe economic crisis, such as Venezuela. I know you're thinking about it and talking about it, but not only must the Croatian state have had to have certain magnets in me that would attract a number of people from Venezuela today who are very hard to live with in view of the Ministry of State Property and everything that we own in municipalities and cities, and we don't know that we own, we could have attracted a part of the people of Venezuela by design, which would be extremely good. So these are strategic things to me, but we need to think about them, especially you as an office. What the office gives in due time and in one place all the information that Croats can get is commendable, but also politically by me, has to be more involved in certain things that happen, both in our homeland, closer to BiH and in the world, that it can react. As far as the office's funding is concerned, that's what I said through my replica, but I'll do it again. So, the regulation itself as one of the types of funding can, in my opinion, be the subject of talks in the Government of the Republic of Croatia every year that it is actually one part of the funds, and it is not small in that amount and transfer to the office itself because the office thinks it works best, it best detects problems and it can act quickly. So, if I'm talking about the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, which I think is in the most difficult position, I'm sure through this kind of financial assistance it can very much help them, strengthen them, on the one hand, and then act politically on the actors in the Republic of Serbia through the very assembly or selecting Croats through minority lists in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will not say that we are doing a reciprocity for the Republic of Croatia through the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, which is somehow an unsettled dream in many countries in our environment, but it can certainly be done in this way. As for the position of Croats in BiH or to help Croats and BiH, I am sure that and I want to believe that all politicians, regardless of their political prominence or political colour, should know what is the strategic, geostrategic importance of Croats in BiH. So, the Croatian people after their dreary and long history received de facto two states. The Croatian state with the Croatian people and national minorities and BiH where Croats are one of the three constituent nations. We talked about a lot of things that could and should happen in BiH, as well as through the thematic sessions of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, because of the autism of certain politicians and today's actors in BiH, this is not happening, but when we say the most, what they care about is actually possible through this Federation are actually certain units that are terrified in BiH especially when this third entity is mentioned, but in fact it should be thought of being functional and to the benefit of all three peoples. Given the Euro-Atlantic integration that BiH is seeking, it certainly will not be able to do so unless it resolves the issue of Croats in BiH. So, the issue of Croats in BiH is the issue of all issues, and without a solution to the Croatian issue, there is actually no solution to other problems in BiH either. I'm sorry that there is too little time left, but Professor Ljubic and Mr. Raguž have touched my thoughts much more important and much more articular than I thought to say in my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142830	Mr. Shuker was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142831	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic would not agree with you very much that there is some political consensus about assistance and concern for Croats outside Croatia. This assembly is the best talk about it. In the past few days, there have been very current pension reforms, and unfortunately there have been people on the wallpaper in '91. They came to defend Croatia, later defended Croatian areas in BiH. So all these guys who took the right to shoot anonymously on the portals, etc., could come to the assembly today and talk publicly about it here, and then we would explain to them why the government made that decision. So I say there are a number of opportunities to talk about various topics when talking about Croats outside Croatia. However, when a segmentally draws out and what is the lowest tragedy and I say it in this assembly for years and I will speak as long as I am here, the Croats outside Croatia must not be a coin for political promotion and it simply must be understood as human. and a political commitment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142832	Thank you, Mr. Shuker. Answer, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142833	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Shuker, in the opening statement, the secretary of state touched it and actually talked about it, and I'm going to remind you. So when it was created, when it was meant to defend the Republic of Croatia, then it was not wondered where, how and how the Croats came, we are all aware of it. But then at the time we passed certain laws, it was very important where, as well as how the Croats concerned from BiH are concerned. It's a good thing you said that, I forgot to say so the Children's Compensation Act is what Mr. Shucker said, today we have a serious problem, so the parties under subsidiary protection, immigrants have the right to a child's allowance, and Croats who are working and paying their taxes in the Republic have no right to do so. So that wrongly respected secretary of state we have to correct, it's people, so their children have to live for a minimum of 3 years here, so there's no need to have enough resources This year we returned one part of the funds, and they can be paid for children's allowances for Croats living and working in the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142834	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Now we continue with individual debates, Mr. Ljubic is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142835	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State, in my debate on behalf of the club, I have been systematically showing myself, therefore, about the report by the Central State Office on the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but for an individual debate, I have reported that this issue would therefore be discussed with the position of the BiH elected representative and as the political representative of the Croats in BiH. Article 10 is replaced by the following: I would also like to remind the Constitution here of one sentence from the strategy itself, so I quote: the Republic of Croatia is concerned about the preservation of the constitutional position of Croats in BiH and will pay particular attention to the implementation of existing international agreements as well as the conclusion of new ones, all for the purpose of the survival and protection of the Croatian people in BiH. By violating the Washington and Dayton Peace Accords, which the Republic of Croatia has repeatedly been denied for the last 20 years by Croats to choose their legitimate national representatives even in the institution with the constitution provided for national representation and therefore many speeches were during the debate on the adoption of the Croatian Parliament declaration here and I would therefore once again like to thank all those who have made it possible to place this declaration on the agenda, as well as those who supported it. That was also evident in the BiH court's constitution on the basis of my appeal. Therefore, several weeks ago, the High Representative in BiH spoke in the UN Council's report, and I quote him: As I have previously reported, the lack of respect for judicial decisions by the judicial authorities remains a problem, it is seen in the persistent non-implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court's decision in the Ljubic case until the local elections in Mostar have been held since 2008 due to another unimplemented decision by the BiH Constitutional Court. So, unfortunately, despite the best result of parties gathered around the Croatian National Assembly in BiH, he would say for the past 10 years, the second person was elected to the vote of the Croatian presidency of BiH. So today, in fact, we have a representative of the political will of the Serbian people, a representative of the political will of the Bosniak people of two representatives, while Croats in the presidency therefore do not have a representative today, unfortunately, InzKO in his report, so the Security Council did not show this as a problem for BiH, but stressed that this is only a problem for HDZ, BiH and the officials of the Republic of Croatia, which is not acceptable. So this act of violating Dayton, so... Croatia's presidency member and political violence in BiH has been convicted of most therefore responsible political representatives of the Republic of Croatia and most members of this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, at least one representative of this Parliament welcomed this election by Zeljko Komsic as well as former Croatian President Stipe Mesic, as well as a small part of the media and called intellectuals in the Republic of Croatia. On the aside that this choice of discrimination and humiliation and insult to Croats as one of the three constituent nations whose roots in BiH are the very deepest of the way that the choice for the result has an overall stalemate both on the internal agenda and on the European integration plan, in particular here seven months after the election, no authority has been formed in the integrity of the Federation or at the level of the BiH state. I would therefore like to encourage all supporters of the violation of the electoral will of the Croatian people of BiH in Croatia to consider whether they are helping BiH in this way. What are the consequences of the violation of the Croatian national entity in BiH for the Republic of Croatia? Here I will remind myself of the decisions of the new BiH presidency, which in 7 months held only two regular sessions and which is next to, so to speak, minor, protocol, so to speak, the decision made only three decisions against Croats and against the Republic of Croatia. I quote, the first decision: "How does Croatia, by implementing the law on the availability of state property, violate an agreement on the succession of former SFRY, task the Bosnian-Herzegovina Foreign Ministry to send a note to the UN Secretary-General as guardian of the conflict agreement." The second decision of the presidency: "The presidency has made a decision to replace all ambassadors and general consuls of Croats, experienced and career diplomats and in the meantime Željko Komsic has appointed people in their place without diplomatic experience and half of them appointed to Croatian quotas are not declared as Croats at all." The third decision of the presidency: "The presidency has tasked the foreign ministry to send a protest note to the Republic of Croatia for the activities and treatment of the security intelligence agency of Croatia towards the citizens of BiH during their stay or transit through the Republic of Croatia. But based on what? Invented affairs by the para-intelligence sector, along with the assistance of the incompetent security minister and the writing of an obscenity portal. Would that be possible, I ask that a legitimate representative of the Croatian people sit in the position of the Croatian presidency of BiH? I'll answer, it wouldn't be possible. Therefore, you well-intentioned citizens of the Republic of Croatia, please do not fall for the manipulation of the enemy of Croatia that the engagement of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve the national subjectivity of Croats in BiH and support for all kinds of and social so-called and economic development of the Croatian national being in BiH and generally diaspora burden and balance for Croatia. No, it's an investment in its own development, sovereignty and survival. Understand that around BiH today, with the support of certain political elites in BiH, serious geostrategic and geopolitical games are played with possible long-term repercusions for strategic Croatian state and national interests which seek to push Croatia out of influence in BiH, according to renowned Croatian Bosnian-Herzegovic writer Josip Mlakic, geostrategic vultureing. The fact that Croatia and BiH are complementary and are directed towards each other in terms of transport, energy and industrial infrastructure. So let's just take an example of transport and energy infrastructure and geostrategic... And the games that affect it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The 5C corridor highway declared by the EU as a concept, so the European Corridor insists on obstructing from several sides So, [[Intruder Radin: Time Mr. Ljubic.]] Okay. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Ljubic time but you will be able to continue, you have three replicas and then you will be able to continue the conversation, dialogue.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142836	The first line was given to you by Mr. Ragug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142837	Mr Ljubic said that part of the International Community approves of political violence against the Croatian people in BiH. I would remind you that during the Dayton peace talks, a question was asked by political leader Ali Izetbegovic, Mr Izetbegovic, whether 30% of the authorities in the entire BiH territory or 100% of the BiH territory. That's what the books are about. So the Bosniak leader accepted the division of BiH and thus received support from part of the international community to carry out political violence against the Croatian people in the Federation of BiH. That is why there is a misunderstanding, which is why Zeljko Komsic was given the opportunity to appoint representatives of the Croatians in international diplomacy so as not to discuss the issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142838	Answer Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142839	So I have nothing to add to this replica of yours. The problem, however, is that Croats in BiH are in no condition to break up today's large-scale unit of narrative. So you spoke earlier in your information debate. So I have a bizarre example, so after a Bosnian-Herzegovician TV document editor has been selected by a person who is not at the will of this unitary chauvinist narrative, the BiH court imagines, makes a decision, contests the choice, because I quote therefore it has not shown impeccable knowledge of the press code, programming principles and journalistic standards. Imagine that the court, the Supreme Court of Croatia, makes a decision to choose, so editor of the Croatian documentary programme and to challenge the way that the journalist, that the candidate who won did not show therefore... Thank you. So that's the problem of BiH, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142840	Thank you. Mr. Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142841	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you that it is unacceptable for the Croats in Bosnia to have no electoral rights as well as other citizens in BiH, and if we are a constituent people and it is not good to break international agreements, I think that we, both the HS and the Government of the Republic of Bosnia, would have to talk more intensively and find ways and models to respect the signed international agreements and rights of the Croats to choose Croats in the presidency, but what we also should not be, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina for some political disputes and compromise, we must not share that national corps in BiH, what individuals in Bosnia did, while our Croats were poor and evicted and it was nice to see a day of opening the school hall in one place, and these are indicators of how we can when we unite, create better conditions for the life of the Croats in Bosnia, but we need stronger economic co-operation and greater pressure on Bosnia to respect for the rights to respect Bosnia. A Croat in Bosnia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142842	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142843	So, I agree, it could always have been better. However, the highest problem for the Croats in BiH was between 2002-2010 when actually there were political elites here that didn't care, so to the Croats in BiH. What we have today, therefore, in BiH today, is a political consensus of all Croatian political parties that bear over 95% of the electoral will of the Croatian people in BiH and which is still equally important, so here in the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister and the President who are aware, therefore, of the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and of the state and national to preserve political subjectivity in BiH and not only that, which have international credibility and competences to represent this interest in the right way. Therefore, those things that have been missed in the past, I am convinced that by our pawning, all here in the Republic of Croatia, I hope that the parliamentary majority and opposition, therefore, with the commitment of the government and the president, will be corrected and that the Croats will preserve political subjectivity in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people in BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142844	Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142845	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ljubic, you have cited a number of examples of violations of Croatian rights, beginning with non-compliance with the Dayton Agreement, then selecting a member of the presidency which, clearly, is not chosen by the Croatian people, but by Bosniaks, by the work of security intelligence services, etc. One of the burning security issues of the Republic of Croatia is the issue of the migrant crisis, and among other things, last year or the preceding year it was intended to force itself to open migrant camps precisely in the areas of populated Croats, so that is another example of pressure on Croats, so here you come from that area, you may have some more information. Also when we talk about security aspects, just yesterday or the day before yesterday, the media released a question of course of returning jihadists from the Middle East War, which I now consider our security intelligence agency Very well... [[Thank you, Mr. Uncle.]] Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142846	Mr. Ljubic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142847	So, fellow Striker, you must have, therefore, properly diagnosed this potential security problem, not only for the Republic of Croatia, but for the whole, therefore, region of Southeast Europe, as well as for the whole of Europe, as regards the migrant crisis. It should be understood, therefore, that BiH does not have the capacity even close to which the Republic of Croatia has, therefore, to control its borders. On the other hand, it should also be understood that BiH is not until the end of the sovereign state and BiH is actually at the request of one great world power, in fact having to receive those people who have come. However, they are all processed and I hope they will be under... Control, therefore, intelligence institutions in BiH because it is both interest and BiH to actually preserve security within its borders, and then in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are things that really need to be solved at a wider, global, European and global level, but in any case, that can represent a problem for the Republic of Croatia, that is also the SOA in its recent report clearly communicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142848	Time. Thank you. We're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142849	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the rights of Croats in BiH, then we can really ask a big question, really what rights they have. It is unfortunate that so many crimes have been committed in BiH and rights taken away not only for management, but for life, that no one, but almost no one, has ever been responsible for such crimes. Not to mention the exiled Croats, I will look again at Bosnia's Posavina, Central Bosnia, part and Herzegovina, and we know when it was killed in Ravno, below our people, until today after 25-30. We didn't banish those rights of ours, the rights to the crimes they committed, and they didn't get convicted. Unfortunately, the international community we consider to be on the questionnaire, justly, has done nothing for the interests of Croats in BiH, but nothing at all. The Dayton Agreement was the one that only calmed the war, I would say, and welcome to those times, after all that, everything went to the harm of the Croats. Of course, the Bosniaks took advantage of it because there are more of them, they did what they did, they even chose our representative, embarrassingly, I think they have to understand that as a people themselves, they can't do it to Croats and they shouldn't do it, we have to fight it, not because they don't need to or shouldn't, we have to, and we have the right to choose our own, they can't take it away from us, I believe they won't. I would say one more thing, the feeling of Croats towards BiH, of course I am from where they are most expelled, watching every summer, every Christmas, every Easter, how many thousands, thousands, thousands of Croats return to BiH. Unfortunately, if before, after the war ended, we had helped those Croats, it was difficult to build what was not built today, with Derventa speaking, the Bosnian Ship and Banja Luka and around, we would probably have had another situation, if we had been tighter, if we were looking for what we were right, if we were historically talking about BiH, then I must mention in 1065 when the arrival of Turks in BiH, nor were there Muslims, nor were there Serbs. They didn't have any Orthodox churches in BiH, then it's clear. Why are they taking that away from us today? Yeah, because we had the richest endings, we had the valuables that were expelled but here, thank God, they're coming back and trying to take what's theirs. We in BiH didn't ask for someone else's, we supported BiH and in war, we only asked for what we wanted to preserve ours and to have ours, how to solve BiH further, did... If you cantonization, that's what you need to talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our government and European, Bosnia is leaning on Croatia, it needs Croatia, and we Croats must not allow them to work with us in BiH as they will. Of course, it was taken someone's property, kidnapped, obtained for nothing is very popular in the announcement said in the Balkan people, and not in Croatian, I do not consider Croatians as Balkans because we have never taken anything in history, I believe that, but we have not allowed them to take away the policies that they have worked for the past 100 years and have always worked in BiH and Croatia, all against the interests of the Croats themselves. Unfortunately, we have this today, we also have days of obstruction in the Croatian state, attacks on governments, Croatianism when you say that you love your country, people also tell you that you're saying something that others hate, of course we don't hate others, the other thing is that we hated others would go and kidnap something and we never did it, never in any wars, we just kept and defended our own. How do Croats live in Serbia? Very difficult. Zvonko you have been there many times, following you and your work, you have seen that living in BiH and Serbia is the most difficult. In all the countries of the world, it is easier to live than in these two republics, which were asked, “Brothership and Unity. ” This brotherhood and unity and the five-pointed killed us, in this Homeland War, scattered in the Homeland War, of course and today here I see it in Kumrovec, an attempt to raise that brotherhood and unity and some Kova Jovanovic and I don't know what it's called, trying to talk about the Communist Party as one good, if it were good, we would all be in their places today and we would know everyone in their house, not to experience these crimes, we wouldn't have a problem. Of course, war is war, it's made known who's guilty, in this peace we have to work but we have to be stronger, of course we can't allow after all the crimes that are... more of the Croatian people to force us and yet to be boastful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is what neither the Croatian government nor we can afford ourselves to manipulate ourselves as if we were some sort of a Ustasha who no one sees except those who see them and who furniture to be, this Croatian people never, at the very least, wanted their country, we have it, which we have to protect and help Croats especially in BiH and Serbia where they are the most endangered of all the republics of the former Yugoslavia. If we're going to succeed in all this, I hope that we will, with one strategy, with one normal work, one but I would say, we should stop and tell Europe everywhere we're sick of gentlemen, just show us where the Croats took something, take something, kill someone, not defend their own. In the end, they accuse us even in Posavina that we committed crimes and they attacked us. I don't know if a grenade had fallen before to the Serb village but they were beating in our villages, so of course the people organized themselves and tried to defend themselves thanks to the Croatian state who contributed a great contribution and helped the Croats and it must not be forgotten but this after the war, I would say, before that I would say that we had taken a seat, we got lazy, we did well, we don't see those poor, poor people who took their bags and went away, their houses today, you hung out in Bosnia's Posavina, it doesn't matter just worse, and around the egg and beyond, it's all abandoned, not because they don't want their houses, but because we don't want them to come back, that we have our rights and that we tell them clearly to everyone in BiH, hey gentlemen, it's ours as much as yours yours. We will not allow ourselves to be exorcised and you have no right, whoever gives you the right, but that international community must simply say once yes, crimes in a criminal way that drove people away, it's a crime, condemning them and returning them, and in the end Europe could help to get rid of it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142850	Thank you, too. We have a replica, let's move on, Mr. Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142851	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The topic we are talking about is as old as the Croatian state, we know that our 1st Croatian President has called out of the draft of Croatia and has devoted a significant role to Croatian emigration and has practically encouraged the creation of a programme for Croatian emigration, whether it is about their return to integration, whether it is about investing the capital of Croatian emigrants in Croatia, unfortunately, these processes have not gone in a positive direction both because of the war and everything else, and in this past time we have had different stages of relations with Croatian emigrants, I will not talk about the negative and inconsistency of the Croatian state towards Croats who live outside Croatia, but look first of all at the positive movements of Croatian state authorities towards the Croatian diaspora, so in particular in recent years, and I will specifically refer to the position and the day of support for the Croats in BiH as the most vulnerable community outside of Serbia. The Croats in BiH are not emigration in the legal sense of the word, and they primarily represent an indigenous people who are in political terms, in BiH they represent no minority group, but one of the three constituent peoples, at least on paper. However, today's trends in the global political force and pressure of Bosniaks as the most numerous constituent people, and especially because of painful war experiences and poor economic and economic prospects, and because of the problematic political system that has been most manifested in the last elections, lead to a large eviction and emptying of the territories that have been inhabited by Croats for centuries. In this regard, I welcome all efforts made to support the return and remnant of Croats and to preserve their equality in BiH institutions and political life. I think it is well-detectable that one way to achieve this goal is primarily to finance educational, cultural, scientific and health programmes and projects that are of interest to our people in BiH. So, looking at the total amount in the year we are talking about, about 2017, it has increased by 17.5% and I consider it good and that such a trend should continue and all these criteria that we have discussed today and which the secretary of state has presented in his opening report and what we have obtained in working materials will surely bring to the Croatian people long-term benefits. However, it is obvious that projects dealing with education, health care, cultural projects and support for various manifestations, despite the need, despite the positive developments and growth and support, I consider in one part that they are only secondary. Why do I say that? Because the Croats in BiH are currently the most numerous people and are on the verge of disappearing, they are fighting for themselves, for their political position and for maintaining the status of the constituent people, but they are fighting for themselves naked, political and physical survival. All this previously-numbered support provided to the Croatian people in BiH is necessary, but it is not the primary one for its survival. I therefore believe primarily that we find a model for strengthening economic and demographic measures to achieve and protect the interests and objectives of Croats in BiH, as well as the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that we need to step up economic measures and boost investment in capital, so first of all, ensure that the economic survival of the Croatian people is ensured in a way and that through the state office and all state ministries in the Republic of Croatia and all bodies, we are more engaged together, here at the lobbying and searching of companies and from the Republic of Croatia, which are first of all emigrants from other countries and from the world, to find ways to encourage and make it easier for them to start production and other business activities in areas where Croats live in BiH. We also can't treat all the areas in the same way, we know where we're most at risk, and we should invest the most there. Of course, in the second part are demographic measures, I made one presentation of the Mediterranean Canton, comparisons 2011 and 2018. where we get the data, to a significant number of Croatians, Catholics, therefore, at 30%. So, while on the other hand looking at Croatian areas, where Croats have a majority in Mostar, therefore, we have a positive natural increase and today we have a situation where more Croats are born in one Mostar than in the former Central Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is very bad and which tells you in itself what the position of Croats is. So, the Croats in the middle Bosnia and Herzegovina, which by over-moving, have lost most in almost all the municipalities of central Bosnia, including those that the HVO has defended from Serbian and Muslim aggression such as Jajce, Busovača, Novi Travnik and the like, the Croats have most of them only in Knights and Kresev, all points to the disastrous future of Croats in this area. And just as for that, I believe that we should introduce and declare in cooperation, here with the Ministry of Demography, control measures, to strengthen demographics, so to include in the wider circle of Croatian children from BiH, see the models in which we can introduce either one-time monetary support, either in terms of providing, therefore, various forms of monetary support to people who remain, who live, who have a permanent residence in BiH. I am sure that in this way we would strengthen demographic trends and, therefore, we can say that with this current funding of all these projects which are of interest to the Croatian people, it is necessary to make a quality analysis and propose, therefore, economic and demographic measures that will allow for the naked physical survival of our people in BiH. If it is not possible to further increase the amount of money from the existing fund, then it would also be good to consider the possibility that from these funds from the Fund for Education, Culture and Science, part of it refers, to this precisely because there is no point in putting a facade on the burning house, first it is necessary to put out fire and repair damage, and then put, glue, façade and decorate. In that sense, given that the office is not filled in, therefore, almost 50% of the space has to be filled in, I suggest, maybe here is one measure in the beginning if this is accepted to amend both the regulation and to Establishs One Sector for Demographic Reconstruction and Economic Progress of Croats [[Intruder: Thank you]] in BiH to deal with these issues. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142852	Thank you. There's no replica, the next speaker is Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142853	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, what I want to talk about here is that first these activities and support certain activities of our people living outside the Republic of Croatia or those who have moved out, unfortunately for several recent years or those who have been living for generations should be supported and in some way maintained by certain activities that are both cultural and educational and scientific profiles to support projects that Croatia and our tradition and culture, i.e. our tradition and culture, maintain and revive in some parts of the world. What is wrong with me and what I see as a major remark, i.e. an objection to the work and this body, that is, the way money is distributed, is seen from the very reports that the vast majority of money is concentrated on exactly one community that may be the most numerous in our neighbouring country and that we do not even touch some other communities that are unfortunately existing in the past period have become more and more and more and more, and every day there are more and more of them, but here as we do not have certain activities because it is assumed that people moved away 2 or 5 years ago that they need less support in cultural or other projects. For example, 30 thousand Croats, 30,000 Croats, live in the Republic of Ireland and colleagues at the moment. Do they have a need there for certain programs, for supporting joint gatherings, perhaps folklore groups, cultural activities etc., absolutely have. Why would ours say at this point a tragedy which is a demographic drain from the Republic of Croatia not following the activities of this office? Why is that neglected? Which is why we don't have, so it's not the only country where I see total discretion. So when you look at the total amounts in one year 23.5 million kuna in neighbouring BiH, in all other countries 4.5 million kuna, but I notice that through our embassies that are here, there are very many countries that at all have many of our own, I would say generations that are there or that have now moved away and that are not even covered by these programmes. And that's the real question of whether this is being used and when you see some larger countries how they take care of their fellow citizens who have been in a country for hundreds or 500 years or who have settled so they still support them, etc., how our government runs that policy. And our government runs a policy as well as it does to citizens leaving Croatia, i.e. it doesn't run politics at all, and it doesn't take care of them. So 30 thousand of our fellow citizens who lived in Croatia until yesterday and now live in Ireland, our government doesn't matter at all. I don't see any program covering them. As far as the Republic of Austria is concerned, we have people living there for hundreds of years but also every year 5 thousand Croats, according to the data we have seen since we joined the EU, going to Austria or Germany. Two hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens in the last 50, 60 years the most went there. So on that side I see this, I see this body's work as a transfer of money where the ruling party sees its greatest and highest interest. Because how to explain that in Ireland not a single programme is supported, as if we don't have an embassy there, as if the embassy hadn't made any communication with maybe some of our clubs, maybe people have already organized themselves, we see that they've been organized by the media all the time and we're getting that information, but not a single June, not a single kuna, even though there's 30 thousand of our countrymen out there, but on the contrary, they're being sent messages that they need to be deleted from our system here because as an unfair use of health insurance, as if every other day someone from Ireland travels to Croatia to achieve a certain service. Instead of the state developing a relationship with these people, to hold them, to somehow bind them to maybe one day return to Croatia, we do nothing, we want to delete them from all our notes with a message stay where you went and on the other hand the office does not do any of the only activity related to the country. I'm not talking about the land of Papua New Guinea, where maybe there's a Croat who went and accidentally ended up there, I'm talking about a country where there are 30,000 of our people, 30,000. So take one Samobor, Koprivnica, an entire town the size of Koprivnica lives in Ireland today. Activity zero. If you look proportionally if there are half a million Croats in BiH, so that's, how much is it, that's about 7%, sorry, half a million, 36%, that means that at least the activities of 2.2.5 million kuna should be for Ireland when we look at certain ratios that way. However, there is no HDZ area committee in Dublin and in the European Parliament elections, the HDZ is probably one of the reasons why there is no activity in Ireland. So, I would like to take care of everyone in the future, that there are large communities of Croats and our fellow citizens around the world, across large countries, and I would like to make sure that if I don't know it, there's a diaspora about as big as we are in Croatia, unfortunately every day that ratio is more unfavourable for those in the Republic, because people are hundreds of thousands moving out of the Republic, I'd like to keep an eye on it. Okay, there's something out there, we have an embassy to help organize it, so HDZ doesn't have to implement this kind of thing, so we have a state. If there is no HDZ in Ireland or in some other countries, we do not have to wait for them, but let them do so, let the embassy organise contact, certain activity, let them support etc. I am confident among 30,000 people in the last 5 - 6 years, a whole series of initiatives that deserve the support of the government office have already been developed. And it's not up to them to grieve, in a way and to act and to wire here, but to the state in the interest of both the embassy and the people working in diplomacy, to give them that kind of support, to support them. The more people, the families who went there, went with most of the children, with little children. So what we want to happen to us is that a syndrome like what happened when people were moving to the United States that a second, third generation also called Croatian names, they're not called John, but they're called John or they're not called Steven or anything called Stipe, so they don't know Croatian. Do we want that to happen in Ireland in 20, 30 or 50 years? So my appeal here to the government's office is not only to look at one narrow interest which is in some way imposed by political relations and perhaps historical, historical things that have been happening and geographically, unfortunately, geographically linked, but to watch what is happening at this point with the Republic of Croatia, and that is a great outflow of people in countries that are not covered by these programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142854	First, first of all, Mr. Skoric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142855	Thank you very much. Well, here I am, most of all, and I would agree with my colleague Maras, when he says that we need to fully look at it, but we see that in practice it wasn't like that and that this office is primarily connected with all the assistance of Croats in the most vulnerable areas where their naked survival was at stake, not where economic and other migrations took place because of going after bread, as my parents did. I am pleased that you are performing this way and I expect that through your further political action, that the SDP will indeed be held in this way because the sustainability and general visibility and the Croatian people in the emigration were not primarily maintained by the HDZ or anyone, held by the Catholic Church, the membership of Catholic missions, the connection in this way because it was all being cared for. We've got beyond these odds. The Croats we need to help are Croats living in South America [[Intruder: Time.]] We therefore expect our support in this regard too. [[Intruder: Time Mr. Škorić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142856	Thank you. Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142857	Thank you very much. Col. Skoric, with 23 million kunas, we will not solve any poverty or problems in the countries that are in our neighbourhood, we can best help them in a way that makes these countries become EU members as soon as possible, give them strong support and develop on their own. So Croatia cannot make prosperity in BiH when unfortunately we haven't succeeded yet in Croatia, let alone in BiH. What I'm telling you about is that the office doesn't follow the needs of the moment, because if we have 30,000 people in Ireland who, in 10 years' time, are going to be or in 20 years' time already in the second generation, then we need to do some programs now to give people support primarily cultural and to keep these people attached to the Republic of Croatia. That's what I was talking about. With 23 million, you won't do a damn thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142858	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Milas will speak on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I just need a minute, two eyes on the presentation of the esteemed representative of Maras. We thank you for your concern for our countrymen who have gone to the Republic of Ireland. I'm sorry he didn't start to worry about it like that three or four years ago, so when they really started to leave and maybe when it could have been easier to say to help them stay here in these places and live in their own country. But to direct it to the full, full operation of the office, so to help someone or to cooperate with someone, there must be an organised community, and to that end, so this is a report for 2017, the office has visited the Republic of Ireland or the Croatian community, which unfortunately because of the way you go to Ireland and leaving other countries is not a community as it exists in other European countries and overseas countries, and I am not talking about the Croatian people in BiH that you have put absolutely into some level that you do not belong to. I'm sorry you didn't come to the beginning of the session, maybe when we talked and exposed at the beginning, maybe some things would be different for you, different for you. I mean, I mean, the Croats so they can organize and preserve with them what's called identity, that they can develop it, culture, tradition and all that must have registered communities like they have all over the world. Is it a folk group, is it a Mother of Croatia organization, is it something else? Unfortunately, there is no such thing in Ireland because Ireland is neither close to being organized nor is it an evictive country like that, I don't know, Germany or some overseas country, Australia, Canada or the United States. This is because people are leaving and coming to Ireland, neither we know nor can we register them either when they left Croatia or when they return from Croatia, and many of them come back or go to third countries like Germany or as you mentioned, Austria. However, in agreement with the Church, so we work very closely with the Church, there is a Croatian Catholic mission, the embassy is working on networking people who are planning to stay there, although they are few and we are therefore trying to create conditions for these people to really communicate, that it is working, to cooperate in the best intentions, so in the manner of everything that the office, or even the Republic of Croatia has through the Law of Relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. But we keep touching Ireland and Ireland as the country to which the Croats go, Ireland that we need to look up to our relationship with the diaspora, and in 2008. Ireland has left half a million Irish. Two years ago, they started coming back. Why? Because Ireland is once again experiencing an economic rise, it has conditions, so perhaps it is better for all here and in this House and in all the institutions to start dealing with the questions of the conditions for these people to stay, and not only to call on each other for political points than for those people who, unfortunately, live in Ireland and all over the world today, to really get the feeling that this Parliament, but also Croats in their homeland, are really counting on them, that they are really being held by the residents or themselves, so that when they come here, they don't feel like tourists but to feel the indivisible part of this unique national being. The way in which HDZ is mentioned, where any party is mentioned in the context of any election, will certainly not contribute to everything that we want here, therefore, to appear, to tell our story, to our own path, without at least talking about it before, that someone has asked what is happening now. So it happens according to our diaspora, unfortunately, in Ireland which I say is neither homogeneous nor as it exists in other countries of the world, nor is it organised in a way that can communicate or cooperate with it in full. Will ever and that's the question. About what I saw and talked to all of them, so I visited their mass and went between them and home, so in Ireland people mostly come back or end up in one of the third countries like Germany, Austria or Switzerland. So we're working on it. We want to be in cooperation and help the Croats who are Ireland, but most of all, we want to work on it, and that's what we all need to do, to get back home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142860	Thank you very much. The first replica was requested by Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142861	Thank you very much. Mr. Milos, I don't know why you estimated that these people will come back because as much as I talk to them, unfortunately they're much happier there than in Croatia and they don't think, I have a lot of friends in the '50s, who said we're going to leave for 5 years, now they're thinking about staying until retirement, so 10 or 15 years. Ask God how many such men there are and if he'll ever come back. You said yourself that the Church already recognized that need and that it founded it. So the state doesn't recognize, and the Church recognizes. Well, you've denied yourself in that whole story. And now I'm going to tell you one more thing, he says you don't organize people. This Christmas, in 12 Dublin pubs, our people had a Christmas party with each other. So they organize themselves. So on that side, they celebrated Christmas, yeah, together. But I don't know what's wrong with you, Zekanovic. Zekanovic, I really don't know what's wrong with you. [[Intruder: Yes, but, thank you very much, but time.]] Well, I don't know what's wrong with Zekanovic. I really don't get it. [[I'm sorry. Finish it. Finish your thought.]] He grabbed the rose and he thinks he's in charge. [[Intruder: Mr. Maras, complete your thought, please, otherwise, time is up.]] I will. [[/Intruder: Would you like to complete your thought?]] So it's not true that our people don't organize, they organize. Unfortunately, the state should behave the same way others behave. Give them support and let them hang out and be there as a community. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142862	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? Oh, no? Yes, you can. It's a replica, but before it has to answer, then a replica. Before the replica. No, no, he picked up before the replica, then the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here, you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142863	Thank you, Vice President. You noticed that my colleague mentioned me in his speech, and I'm not the subject of debate. I'll just say, on one brilliant statement, congratulations. Christmas Eve, Master's honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142864	Mr. Zekanovic, you have a warning because you didn't call for an article. Call the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142865	I don't know what's wrong with Trnorovica Zekanovic. So the man insults me, in 238, he's an officer. Well done, master. What did the poet mean? In 238, yes, so Mr. Zekanovic, I say that he grabbed Rose Tomasic and now he's giving us some lessons. [[Wait, you did call on the article.]] I'm thinking about what a man's talking about, give it to him, give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142866	Let's move on, let's move on. Let's move on. Mr. Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142867	Dear Secretary of State. I was encouraged by one of your sentences to answer the line because it's a wonderful example you've set here. So, you mentioned the eviction of the Irish from Ireland in time for economic reasons, and you mentioned one very important thing. That the Irish are going back to Ireland mass because they created conditions for a better life in Ireland. And just with all the praise for the work of your office, I think we should all gather our heads together and work on creating conditions for these people who went to Ireland and other countries of the EU to return as soon as possible and to create here the conditions that they can live normally, that this great bureaucracy, this great paperwork, all of which in some way refused to live here in this beautiful country, create a condition for them to return and to achieve their existence here and form their family and that Croatia lives again with full lungs. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142868	Here's your answer, Mr. Miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142869	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Okay, thanks. [[Intruder Radin: I didn't give you an answer to Maras but you can use each other, please.]] Thank you very much, I'll just, so it's no problem at all, however, it's nice and valuable that our people hang out, that they live in a community and where they go and so on and in... [[/Intruder Radin: Two minutes then to you, please.]] But it's not enough to cooperate, I repeat it to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we can't make co-operation with... in Ireland where the Croats are gathering together and working with them through projects, so we encourage our people who went to Ireland and I repeat, in cooperation with the Catholic Church, there is also a Catholic mission, so very closely we work together, not only do parts of my sentences but everything you want, quote me from the beginning to the end, so we encourage them to organize, to acquire if I have to say so, so legal personality by the foundation which the Republic will therefore have a way to absolutely help them, both materially and otherwise in everything they need to do and what they want to do to preserve their identity and all the values they want to recognize as Croats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're going in that direction and I don't think it's a good thing to compare it to any other Croats, whether it's emigration or Croats in BiH, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142870	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142871	Thank you very much. Mr. Miles, in one sentence you said that Ireland is just a temporary residence, but it's not like it used to be. I think we should mention the key problem here, the key problem is it was Ireland or Germany, and we should... And in the '60s, and in the '40s, there were our people who were leaving my area, and mostly, now the most dangerous thing to do is to leave Bosnia, leave the entire family, the hearths remain empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why it is very important to mention the problem in BiH because it is your part, it remains empty villages, empty schools, empty stables, so we are extinct in the BiH area and the smaller problem is now, of course everything that needs to be done in Ireland but it is important to discuss and talk about it. The problem is that all governments did nothing to keep the whole family from leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142872	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. Miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142873	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Bulj, I will tell you from my experience, so I don't know how many times I've visited BiH, so I've visited Europe and visited all minority and emigrant communities and I'll tell you the experience from Munich, so where is the largest Catholic parish, so we're talking about Croats, so where is the gravitation of about 50,000 Croats, let's say that 50, so I'm telling you what the mission is telling me is, is Boris Čaric, Fr. Boris Čaric, our flat-rate estimates, our flat-rate estimates are what they are. The fact that there are many but also, the fact is what man says every day but literally every day comes either family or individual coming back to Croatia. So there's a two-way, so it's not just a one-way trip, it's unfortunately expressed in a negative sense, so... but it is up to us to prevent it from respecting each other from HDZ to SDP through the Most who, what, where and how, I think it's too low for the topic we're discussing today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142874	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, thank you very much. Mr. Bully, there's no such dialogue, don't throw it away, don't answer the Proposer, please. Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142875	The first fact that none of my colleagues have ever noticed before is that Croats are a unique people no matter where they are, without a view of where they live. So it bothers me at all when there's a difference between Croats who are for political reasons, for example. emigrated to Argentina or Germany or New Zealand or those who recently emigrated to Switzerland, Ireland or Germany for economic reasons. The Croats living in BiH have always been Croatians in Croatia. So, Croats are a unique people, it's a national corps, and we have to point that out at all times. When the Homeland War was then we relied heavily on our Croats around the world and Croats from BiH and Croatia from Germany and Croatia from far away Australia and thanks to their help we managed to defend freedom. Today, we are making a difference, so we have two types of Croats, Croats in Croatia and Croats outside Croatia. But the best diameter is also through, and I talked about it today in the replica, and through the vote, i.e. allowing the Croats to vote. So only 1% of the total number of Croats outside have been given the opportunity to vote in these elections, which is embarrassing and once there is trouble or need, again, Croatians from Croatia will remember all those who went either with their belly after bread or for political reasons, many and left the country of Croatia. Croatians are on many sides of the world, we have those indigenous Croats in the countries around Croatia, from Burgenland, Gradišč, prayer Croats,... The Croats in Romania, to the Croats in Serbia and we also have Croats who have mentioned themselves, relatively recently for economic reasons, left for example. In Ireland and there they are organized, going to midnight Masses, waiting for Christmas, some in pubs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have to take care of them. What is very important is to say that the Croats in BiH still have one special status because the Croats are a constituent people there and I haven't heard the figures here, I'll try to pronounce them, 91st. There were 760,000 Croats in BiH, today there are much fewer, according to some estimates from 2014. About 420,000, and today much, much less, these are devastating figures that no one is talking about, so no one mentions, no one mentions that the Croat has become less and less. And when we talk about the state and its sovereignty, you need to know that the same thing as what, that two features of sovereignty, people and states. When a nation gives up one part of it, one very large part, and three million Croats living outside the country, that nation will have no future. And no matter what Mr. Secretary's exposure sounds good, it's kind of nice, though, I'll just say about the piar, the real concern of the Croats, unfortunately there's no outside. It's not just you, it's also the circumstances, it's the circumstances, it's a matter of one systematic concern and systematic neglect of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, systematic. I'll repeat, it's not just your fault and you've presented it nicely, unfortunately, we're losing a large part of the Croatian National Corps and I don't actually see a shift there. And when we talk about fine examples, I would, I would still set an example here, and this is about the Netherlands, and this is about two people, one of these two people living in The Hague right now, this is our General Milivo Petkovic and he is a Croatian who is currently in immigration, currently maintaining a prison sentence for our people, neither guilty nor obliged and sitting together with Karadzic and Mladic. On the other hand, there is another Croat in the Netherlands named Cedo Pajic, my fellow citizen from Sibenik, you may have heard of him, a great humanitarian and benefactor, who has visited General Milivo Petkovic several hundred times already, my fellow citizen and all other Hague indictees and prisoners. So, this way, we'd like to remember that two people, one, we both forgot, one who's in immigration because we handed him over today's prison, and nobody mentions his name and another, which is an example to all of us, a man who has devoted his whole life to his country, to his people, to the defenders, and I'm going to tell General Milivo Petkovic first. I have to point out here that here is fantastic how my colleague Maras, here a little bit agrees, his party here has now survived this election, breathed the air of a living dead man, unfortunately, the SDP has not yet failed and I am glad that, in me or the sovereigns, there is the biggest problem and let him see and be a problem and let him have this kind of moderate rhetoric and according to HDZ because tomorrow he will have to give them a hand for a big coalition and that is wise and that is smart, and here I am as glad as Minister Pejcinović Buric has announced today that a great coalition is being negotiated again and in Brussels, a coalition of broken and socialists that we have been talking about all the time or that the HDZ coalition and SDP in Brussels is already concluded, and this is what you can't ignore that you are already a partner, but you're partner with HDZ as a partner with a partner with the HDZ. But I will return to remain on the subject, therefore, so that the state is sovereign must also take care of that people that are constituent, in the Republic of Croatia it is a Croatian people. We cannot share the people according to the state in which they are located because it is a single and national Corps, a single and national Corps, and the Croats from Australia are Croats, as well as that Croatian from Drnis, as well as the Croatian from Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142876	Mr. Kirin was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142877	Dear Vice-President HS, the respected representatives of the ministry, the honourable representative, the debate on Croats should be shared on Croats in BiH, so as a constituent people, on Croats as national minorities from Serbia to Italy, on Croatian emigrants in European countries and overseas countries, we do not need to worry about economic status, but about cultural while on Croats in Bosnia and national minorities we need to take care of cultural positions, political and social economic positions. Where do you think the most questionable, most difficult position of the Croats is? What about organised breaking of the Croatian Corps in Serbia by official policy? Should the Republic of Croatia, given the de facto discriminatory position of Serbia's official policy, give Serbia support in meeting the EU membership chapters?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142878	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142879	Here, Mr. Kirin, I'm glad you brought up at the end a subject that is very important, excellent. And Prime Minister Plenkovic, who you support and the president of your party on this issue, is doing nothing, however, even against the interest of the Croatian people because he is helping his counterpart Vukic to join the EU without resolving the status of Croats in Serbia and that is a very big problem. And we have a historic opportunity to help our countrymen in Serbia, Prime Minister Plenkovic, the Prime Minister, has it, however, does nothing, is his only interest, the interest of Germany, the interest of Angela Merkel to Serbia to enter without any problems in the EU, unfortunately, that is the case. And here you would mention another problem that the secretary of state pointed out today, I didn't know about it, it's interesting, which is that the Croats in Slovenia who have, here I don't know the exact number, but there are several thousand. They don't even have national minority status in Slovenia. And now I'm not going to say again that it's entirely your fault, but it's a shame for the Croatian state that 30 years of Croats in Serbia don't have, excuse me in Slovenia any status.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142880	Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142881	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Zekanovic, in your debate, you pointed out several incorrect data. First, the country of origin deliberately creates the difference between the Croats living here and somewhere else in the world, then disowning them, which is not true, among other things the report of this office is talking about. On several occasions, however, you pointed out the word sovereignty and sovereignty. So let me explain something to you because I can see that you don't understand. The Republic of Croatia has already been a 28 sovereign state, not since the day before yesterday, since the party HRAST. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142882	Mr. Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142883	Dear fellow Strick, you have received an obvious task from Prime Minister Plenkovic that you must return to that part of the spectrum you formally, where you have received votes so far, it is clear to you, so you must be aware that you are the centre party and a little left center, that your partners are on this side, and that this is the SDP both present and future in Brussels tomorrow and in Croatia. So, one shot that's not good. So, you have a chance to be a sovereign fellow when you sign my life protection law, for example, to vote it here and protect life. You've had a chance to be sovereign on the Istanbul Convention, on the Marrakech Agreement, and you can already slap your hand on the table with the next club and tell your party president, e dear Andrej we want to block Serbia's accession negotiations until open issues are resolved, and you won't do that because you're not a sovereign, you're HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142884	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142885	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Zekanovic, we have listened to your political passwords, and very little is what you should have talked about. As a sovereign who teaches us what sovereignty is, I suggest you speak a little bit about the culture of gratitude. This gentleman sitting here has visited almost every municipality in which Croats live in the Republic of Croatia and declare him guilty and give him no idea what attributes I don't think it suits you. Take a look at what is done and how much is done, and you will see, and these paroles about Serbia enters, Serbia does not enter, Croatia is an EU country thank God and I would personally like Serbia to have the conditions to join the EU tomorrow. The fact that you give certain passwords to get some cheap political points is quite legitimate, but there's one book of Dance is one summer, so I suggest you read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142886	Mr. Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142887	I knew, whenever you think about it, I'm glad you said it. So, you'd like Serbia to join the EU tomorrow, if I wouldn't. And now that's one difference between me and you, I wouldn't want to be with Serbia anymore in the common state, you'd want it to be your right. And that's why you're in HDZ, I'm in the HRAST party within Croatian sovereigns, a very big difference. As for fellow Members, it is not only his fault, but he is currently the person responsible for this situation, he has taken responsibility for the relationship with the Croatians in immigration and he is the person we will call and reward to understand each other. And the fact that he's visited as many as 500 municipalities and 120 cities as you've said, well done, so there's good mileage, there's good journals, I have nothing against it let him continue traveling around Croatia, that's fine. And perhaps for the end, no matter how you behave as long as you support Prime Minister Plenkovic and his policy, you cannot call yourself a Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142888	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142889	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic doesn't care what you say, but what you do. So that's where you went down on everything and everything, and you forget that you had a very friendly almost intimate relationship with Prime Minister Plenkovic. So the pictures they show and say more than a thousand words are still available on the Internet today, no. And the weight and hiding behind Mrs. Ruža Tomasic should not be too much of a waste of words. So you received 3,000 votes in these elections, Mrs Ruža Tomasic received 80 or 70 means it's not a success for you, but the success of having recognized a part of the voter as a quality Europarliamentary, unfortunately with a shameful pedigre which we now saw a few days ago in the media where she worked in her youth things that are totally inappropriate for politicians in public space and who unfortunately are not today. She hasn't given up yet, but you have nothing to do with it, except what you're loud about. [[Thank you, Mr. Maras.]] You're not even here. I'm sorry. It's 3,000 votes you've brought. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142890	Mr. Maras, thank you. One sentence ends, not four. Mr. Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142891	My colleague Maras, you're a very good mathematician, are you, so now you've calculated some bad math, and it actually suits me very much when you attack me, even when I'm being attacked by Christian Democrats like my colleague, My friend Kirin, my fellow Uncle. So go ahead, so SDP and HDZ together against the sovereigns against Hrvojo Zekanovic. So go ahead and try to reduce our success, try to marginalize us, go ahead. Show already what community you have in reality, you have it in the field, you will have it tomorrow, you will try it in the assembly, you have it in Brussels, and you are like-minded around everyone, I will say about all the important laws that have shaken Croatian society, since the Marrakech Agreement, of the Istanbul Convention. And I'm very glad that you colleagues, Maras, see me as the biggest problem, look for my pictures on the Internet, feel free to put them around, Hrvoje Zekanovic is credible, and I don't know about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142892	Thank you for sticking to the weather, even earlier, I appreciate it very much, sir, I'm sorry, I can thank you for sticking to the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142893	No, no, Vice President HS, so, Honored Vice President HS, refrain from commenting which are not necessary... [[A little, a little, a little, a little...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142894	...part of the Rules of Procedure because next time we'll...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142895	...238...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142896	...and well, thank you very much because I'd have to warn you next time. Mr. Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142897	Thank you, sir. He turned it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142898	Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142899	Dear Mr. Vice-President HS, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Milas with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, and I particularly welcome the Croats in BiH, especially in my Central Bosnia. Well, there's a moment ago Mr. Miles, since I can talk for a minute when I want to explain something, and there's nothing you can say, while I was a dean of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Zagreb, then I started working together, then there were those wrecks of facades and scattered streets across Mostar, and I started working together, seven years ago. I personally taught at that university even though I had a lot of jobs because I realized that it was the strategic interest of the Croatian people in BiH. I met that 7-8. An excellent Herzegovina who was almost unknown to me, met beautiful people and a truly beautiful landscape. My Central Bosnia has been tormented, Bosnia, but it remains proud, it has been in secret political negotiations left alone to leave its place, it is not talked about because it is clearly what is dirty on the conscience of a number of people who were then burning and burning in these areas. These people, the Croats in Central Bosnia, they saved themselves and no one can beat them, and neither will they ever because they were there from the Ottoman Empire, Austria-Hungarian, First, World War II, this war of the last and that's it. But now that we have in BiH, no one can defeat my people there, but we have men of war still leading three peoples, both Serbian and Bosniak, Muslim and Croatian people and those with each other, watch out, they want to bring BiH into the future, in a happy period. That's not what these people can do. Who are these people? Why do they support themselves? I am now talking about this segment of the Croatian people. So, constantly, as you would say in the Republic of Zagorca, there is always someone burning fire there, and in such politics, you alarm both other peoples and you have everyone against everyone. Why am I telling you this? I repeat, I was born in Central Bosnia, I finished high school in Travnik, I am proud to point out, no one can know BiH, especially Bosnia because Herzegovina is completely, not to say, almost exclusively a different story, who did not live in Bosnia, and I lived in 19. And I'm going to stay forever, go as many times as I can and have lots of friends and relatives, and what's the story now that I don't have this debate just on the Croats in BiH? You see, here we are a few months ago, a declaration was adopted, I agreed to it and supported it for reasons of our people, but because of the people who lead, I would never support it, and here I am very clearly repeating it because I know that this transmission is being watched by our people in BiH. So, now to state a number of arguments, first of all, I repeat, this report was supposed to be a year ago, he's talking about the seriousness of the approach of this government, not you, Mr. Miles, you may have asked for it to be before, but the man who runs the Croatian government, so he's being prevented, what, which will be the meeting in Brussels, will he be sitting at the table with the lady. Merkel or Mr. Macron, so to say that he was sitting, it's the most important in diplomacy, it's the man who doesn't make decisions, this government is so, practically because of the affair, I don't remember a government that has had more affairs in such a short time, so you see, they can't stabilize, and about the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia there's no talking, they're, they're desuverging, they're giving up, they want to introduce the EURo, they're exporting our people out, so how are these people going to help our people in BiH or around the world? But here are concrete proposals because we change Croatia in the Foreigner, you see, we do not engage here with SDP, HDZ, and so people look at this, they realize who are serious people and who can bring one recovery to the Croatian people and the Croatian state, one progress, prosperity on sound grounds, they must be people who have been made in their lives private, not circusrs, those who just throw themselves away with words or people who have some fixed ideas or who haven't even ended their wars since World War I and II. Let's go in order, diaspora, in diaspora another Republic, that's what we said. Do you know that the only country with which the Republic of Croatia has a surplus in foreign trade is BiH, the only country until 2nd. We had a surplus with Serbia, it now has a surplus in trade with us, all this says about the collapse of the government's economic policy. Secondly, to be very clear before the Party, we change Croatia, sometimes in Croatian spaces it is said that diaspora should not vote when parliamentary, these, those elections in the Republic of Croatia, say, do not pay taxes. Dear citizens who think so, they probably need to hear your arguments. Last year, the Republic of Croatia, last year, had an average of foreign credits, foreign credits of over two billion euros, so about 15 billion kuna came from abroad last year to accounts through banks in the Republic of Croatia, and our people still bring in at least so much in pockets, it is a key factor in the stabilisation of Croatian society and economy, despite of course, and this is precisely the result of the long-standing work of our people, emigrations, etc., etc. These people send their relatives, they build real estate here, they pay taxes, they buy, they traffic real, so it's not true they don't pay taxes, but what's the problem? Which 1, 0.2, 1 or 0,3 of those thugs who take advantage of this situation, create a negative picture of these beautiful and valuable people of ours who work around the world, we are ashamed of them, and they need to be removed from political life. Secondly, BiH is most important to us because our people according to Dayton are constitutional, should be equal, it is on paper, in reality it is not. This government and before have done nothing to write Dayton 2, I can't do it because we have a weak state here that's important, so this government is in a vasal relationship with Brussels and then what is it going to do to the Croats in BiH? I can come eat kevapee, obic, paint myself when the elections are and go back to Zagreb and that's it. In that sense, which is the party's proposal to change Croatia, we are unfortunately due to the total blockade of the media, especially the public we pay, but here's the opportunity to bring it out. We have a special constituency for Croatians abroad, so, diaspora, three are, therefore, representatives. I don't know when someone outside BiH was elected. Mr. Glasnović was by chance, not by chance because he was trying, otherwise it was a plan to be all three of the HDZ like it always is, right, because we're not lucky until there's no other party there can succeed because there's no money, no support, nothing and so they want until the day of judgment. Our proposal is that next to these three members, one will be from other EU countries, in fact BiH is not from the EU, or from Germany, so there are more Croats in Germany than in BiH, unfortunately, one from North and South America, one from Australia and New Zealand, so if you think about the concept of diaspora then let at least from these continents be one more, and otherwise the number of representatives in the HS Party will change Croatia, we will come, we are coming, we are in the next elections, this will propose an election law where there will be no more than 100 MPs in HS, because this should be cut. Russia's Duma has 500 MPs, and when we compare it to the population, they should have 5,000 MPs, that's it. And now what else is there to say here? Manipulations to Croatian citizens and Croatian people are amazing, especially here in Croatia, take Zagreb's Dubrava, Sesveta, Long Village to Vrbovac, especially for Mr Bandic and HDZ, they were so many Croats, especially from Bosnia abuse in the elections and when the elections are over there are no more than one that they can take pictures with. So I invite you, all our countrymen wherever they are, recognize individuals from the party who are able to make this country, the Republic of Croatia and the proud BiH, one body with the right people, not with the con men and people who only tell you about the elections what they would do to make them survive, and you can move.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142900	Mr. Ragug, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142901	It could be serious about my colleague Lovrinovic, but this is still a chance to make a little joke. Anything my colleague Lovrinovic said could be played under a Bosniak song from Mostar "if the pan were a clear field, that the eggs were by the essence of the stones, which would fry the eggs". Thank you, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142902	You want to answer that song or what? Here you go. You did answer in the prose after all. Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142904	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, I am glad that you mentioned the University of Mostar, and I was also at a symposium this Saturday and I think it is important to give support, but also to our presence and simply show the unity of the Croatian people here and in BiH. The central office's report states that in a way that encourages them to school and stay in their country, it is day-to-day support for the construction of 3 student homes. A month ago in your Central Bosnia, a new part of the Novo Bila hospital was opened, worth more than 8 million kuna, a large majority of which was funded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would like to talk more about concrete figures, and perhaps one tip to change that the party called Change Croatia and BiH. [[Thank you, Mr. Cellic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142905	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142906	Thank you. Mr. Cell, how may I respond to your comments? It's not the Party we change Croatia and I, we're not here to paint, you know, to act as unique to these issues, it's what you learned in HDZ and okay, it's your style, so the citizens will recognize it or they won't appreciate it or, therefore, we want real changes, we want to show the right face, if we do something, we don't need a good policy, and in that context, we don't need what to say? When I pass by or by Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially Bosnia from the Eggs, down through Travnik to the Oxygens, down to ours, now Sarajevo or on the other side, you see for sure that our people are hard to live, they see hope in us. However, I keep saying, how will we achieve this hope when this leadership here does not defend, does not protect the interests of Croatia, let alone protect its people, when they do not appreciate their country, let alone to fight for our countrymen. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142907	We continue with individual discussions. Now it should be Mr. Branimir Bunjac's turn, but he's gone, so he'll lose his right to speak, but there's a Mr. Bulja who doesn't lose his right to speak. Here you go. And that's on behalf of the club? And that's final on behalf of the club? If you'll excuse me, I'd like you to come here then.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142908	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the most important secretary of state, the very important office, the important office on which the tribune still works, to build up with all the effort that is being put into it, but I think it takes a lot more. Not with your efforts but otherwise the country's tribune to invest much more in Croats outside the country, whether the constituent people of the Croats in BiH, whether diaspora, or as a national minority in the countries in which they now live. I'm not going to talk here about governments or SDPs or HDZ or sovereigns who vote not to open the UDBE archive, I don't mean I just don't want to save this debate that's been held here. This is about the key issue, the survival of people, when we talk about Croats in BiH, the survival of people in the area. This, this migration has been happening they are more dangerous than they have been so far. I repeat, before men went to other countries, their families stayed in those hearths, the children settled, it wasn't an easy life, but so it worked. We must not, in any way, be as a parliament of interest, as representatives of the people, that Croats from BiH exclusively come to live in Croatia. We must direct all forces to keep people in those areas and that is the strategic national interest of Croats. The Croatian people in BiH paid for BiH's freedom and Croatia's starting with Posavina, ending in Herzegovina, regardless of where the El in Central Bosnia is. And this is too serious a question that when there was a war there would be 20 years of calling for sovereignty, I was personally in Bosnia for a year, and here I've been reading the story of love to us, about General Petkovic whom I won't remember, and I've been with that man for days and days. I don't want to go to that level and that's when the man who is my generation says to put down the debate on that part. It must be a constitutional obligation for us, it is our right, because then this house has no purpose, if we don't save people in those areas, and not just use them as a voting machine and write that they have this citizenship in the cities of Croatia to be pursued by buses, we can't do that from these people. We have to enable their children, and this is the MOST of independent lists proposed by the declaration, this is proposed, here is my colleague Ljubic, who knows this, proposes to the amendments, you all know. That their children, children in the BiH area who will have citizenship because Croatians have the same right to study as children in the Republic of Croatia. Give them a triba connection or any black swan to fix anything for him. We must fight that these people have the same right as any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, too much blood money is paid by Croats in Posavina, Central Bosnia and Herzegovina and for Croatia are responsible and for BiH they are responsible, and these mantras that someone is more sovereign than someone or that someone must not mention General Petkovic or anyone else, and these stories here I cannot pass, and I believe neither the people who listen to this. This story is too serious, this is about the survival of the exodus of people moving out of Herzegovina, BiH and Croats. Majorisation of Croats must be recognised is not only a Bosniak policy, we must protect Croats from the obvious at this time from Bosniak and Serb policies. I'm talking about Dodig and the U.S.A. But we must protect them from the policy implemented by our Croatian parties below because they must be louder, they must protect their people, and our constitutional obligation to us MPs, it is a constitutional obligation, it is our area, BiH is, the Croatian people have the right as well as to Croatia, there is the homeland of our people. It is our right, and we are like in the EU to all institutions and everyone is pulling us by the nose. National minority in Serbia sees that, while the national minority in Croatia, the Serb national minority is in power in the majority, and ours have no rights, under the terror of now living Chetnik Seselj /incomprehensible/... etc., etc. [[Intruder: Time, time.]] I call on everyone to join in on this issue. [[Intruder: Mr. Bull, then freedom of the world, but time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142909	Time's up. And now it's Mr. Bozo Ljubic's turn in front of the HDZ Representatives Club as well as final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142910	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. So, from this report and debate, I think almost all the MPs here have shown in fact that the Central State Office has been profiled as the true central coordinating body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on support, therefore to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Here I am going to start my debate actually in the final sentence or the syntagm of my colleague Bulja, we should all join in on this issue because it is actually about 3.5 million of our countrymen outside the Republic of Croatia, so it is about another one of this Croatia. That is why I can truly be satisfied with today's debates, although they sometimes had the character of party promotion, which is quite normal, but it is common to all the components of the Croatian people outside the Republic, including the Croatian diaspora, Croats in BiH as a constituent people and Croatian minorities in 12 countries of Europe. What I would like to say here, I think that at this point in fact, when we talk about the relationship between Croatian policy and this issue, we can only express the satisfaction that Croatian politics, in general, in the Republic of Croatia and I hope that it should be and will be a safe position of both opposition and authorities, therefore supporting this strategy and this law that has been adopted here by consensus because I am talking about issues that are, in the long term, the very existence of the Republic of Croatia in the future, not only its economic and political but also its demographic future. What I would also like to say about the BiH issue, I was in my individual discussion earlier, to say so, because I didn't have time to elaborate, so if BiH is playing very much today, so to speak important for Croatia as well, worrying geostrategic games. The aim of these games is, in fact, to be supported by certain elites in BiH, to move Croatia away from BiH and thus to prevent Croatia from achieving its state and national interests, thus supporting the subjectivity of the Croatian people in BiH. Here's what I just illustrated through the three decisions of the presidency in two sessions actually concerning Croats and the Republic of Croatia, which were against. What I also want to point out here and is mentioned on several occasions, so this is not the only opportunity when it comes to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to Croats in BiH. Last year we won the declaration, but no one here mentioned therefore one of the most important points of that declaration of its conclusion that it undertakes to say so by the Croatian Government, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to report at least once a year to the Croatian Parliament on the realization of the conclusions of this declaration. The report should therefore be expected in this year, i.e. the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we will have the opportunity to reopen the debate and these issues that some colleagues have elaborated here concerning and the exercise of voting rights. So why didn't we put focus in the declaration itself on an electronic and correspondence vote when the Croats were in, in relation to the Croats in BiH? So because it concerns all Croats, perhaps least Croats in BiH, because 4 consulates and 1 embassy can much easier achieve their voting rights than Croats, I don't know about Oceania, Australia, America or the countries of Europe, but in any case we have an important issue on the agenda. The prime minister himself, therefore, is on behalf of the parliamentary majority as the president of the HDZ, has said here long ago that we will stand up for it and that we will bring proper regulations. So as far as certain things are concerned, so to speak sectoral issues such as scholarship of students, treatment etc., etc., in fact the goal of the Republic of Croatia is to help the Croats in BiH achieve constitutionality and equality to the fullest extent that the Constitution guarantees so that Croats will be able to realise their needs and scientific and health and education, etc. and this should therefore be the ultimate goal of helping the Republic of Croatia on this issue. So I once again express my satisfaction with this debate and, of course, once again confess to the central state office, so on their work, which was reflected in this report as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142911	Thank you, too. And now at the end of the proposal, Mr. Miles will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142912	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I really won't hold your attention very long, but here I have the need before I thank you for your participation in the debate on this important subject, I would like to say a few words, so no matter what we belong to the same party family, however, we are very divided, and in that I am allowed to say what I think and may be sincere to you with deep respect for each of you through his choice, so the people have chosen you here and it is necessary to respect me, but today our debate is truly sad, first of all, because of the visual effect, so this assembly is really empty when we talk about what we all swear is most important, that our constitutional obligation, that we have a duty, I would say, first of all, as members of the same people to the Croats in BiH. But as Mr Zekanovic said, and I have noted, according to all the Croats who must be, they must feel like part of an indivisible Croatian national being no matter where they live. I did not perform here as a member of HDZ but as head of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. And I am glad for the criticism, and I thank you for the work of the Office, but for all that the Office does, that is, I hold responsible all of you and all the institutions in the Republic and above all if it should be the Office, however. It is sad to note that individuals who have been sitting here for 3 years do not know that, for example, Croats in Slovenia do not have national minority status, I think, are parliamentary representatives, as Croats outside the Republic of Croatia call emigrants. The communists called the Croats emigrants, they are Croatian emigrants, so that was once and I hope that today we all know who lives as a member of the Croatian people outside the Croatian borders. Surely the focus is most BiH. BiH, in which the Croatian people live, is both natural and geographical, and in every respect too important for the Republic of Croatia, and we are important BiH, and I am glad that Mr. Lovrinović, I mentioned on purpose that he was a dean because I knew what he was doing, that he was at the University of Mostar, etc., so when we talk about it, all the structures of society must, and that is why I mentioned agreements with Croatian universities, so up to one Croatian university, but it is not an important agreement, it is important that what happens behind the agreement, the quotas, special quotas for the Croatian national minority, for Croatian emigrants, for Croatian emigrants, so if they come to God, their stay or return, therefore, Masters leadership, where we expect us to attract both Croatian emigration and Croatian youth, so if they come to God, their stay or whatever else, can be what we need. It is not enough today, nor can we invite the Croats to return, it should be possible for them to, at all, come to the Republic of Croatia to seek the kind of relationship they wish to have with their homeland or homeland and to draw in them a desire to feel it in that Republic. What we all talk about, I hate the word "potential", which I noticed that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia don't like when we mention them as potential. So, we're not talking about our country, we're not talking about the security of the Republic of Croatia, we take it for granted, and I think it's, so the first brand that the Republic of Croatia has, and I know it by the fact that hundreds of young Croats, descendants from South and Latin America, are coming to the university courses of Croatian language, where the largest majority of them are looking for citizenship and believe they stay working in the Republic and what they see in the Republic, we have suddenly forgotten it, we take it for granted, and we simply don't notice it. The relation to BiH, now I have to talk about this government because I belong to this government and the 2.5.G-3, as far as I'm doing my job through this government, you all know that the first official time since the inauguration of this government was in BiH, I don't want to repeat how many times the prime minister went there, whether you say what you say about painting or some other things, if you have to say in the end and for encouraging people who live there, therefore it already gives me and symbolises how sensitive we are, how attached we are to the Croatian people in BiH and how much we are trying, what you Mr. Bulj said, how much we are trying to do to keep this people there, especially young people there, is not our goal to bring the Croats BiH into Croatia to Croatia, though, better than to go to Germany, but it's not necessarily the goal. The Croatian minority, too, is not the goal of bringing the Croats from Serbia to the Republic of Serbia, but they need to be enabled and given the opportunity, should be co-operated with them, so this is not their help, this is co-operation with the Croats from BiH with the Croatian national minority, with Croatian emigrants, and that is how it should be observed. And I think in these topics, I'm really saying this, the story of HDZ, the SDP, the Most, we're going to change Croatia or so on or sovereignty, so what are all people who defend the Republic of Croatia and don't belong to the sovereigns, what are they? What is Miro Bulj, and so is my little one? If we haven't shown that we want the sovereign Republic in the best and hardest way, then I don't know how to show it. So let's try really, I believe that some of these people, in fact, a lot of them are looking at this today and through our relationship, through everything we've talked about or what we've shown, I think it's going to come to some conclusions that might not be great for the Republic. So, I call you once again to really try to find a consensus in all of that, to ignore that political struggle, to talk about their ability, to have the right to vote, to vote, to have the right to vote, and now to tell you that President Plenkovic has just told you that this should not be changed if the law does not mean the possibility and that is true, but you know best which way, but we will and we will, we will change that too. I will also mention that in the adoption of amendments to the Law on Citizenship, a law which has not changed for 20 years and a few years, which will allow these people precisely that first, basic, fundamental relationship, legal relationship with their homeland, and from it comes everything else, and we need these people to encourage everyone else to take Croatian citizenship, even if they have been educated tomorrow, but have returned to where they came from, to be Croats and it is worth it. Let's remember what it would have been like for us if it hadn't been for 90, 91, where they lived. In the end, I want to thank everyone for their attention, for the constitutional debate, for everything that will contribute to this whole story of cooperation with our people living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, for making it more constructive, for being as firm as possible, for both their well-being and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142913	Several replicas, the first replica was requested by Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with my associates, I would like to express my gratitude for all that you are doing through the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Here I will mention one small community of Croats in Kosovo, where thanks to the Central State Office, the small part of the Yearbook, gets a warm meal every day, there are a few hundred Croats left, and I ask you, through the question of the Minister of Education Blaženko Divjak, therefore, to start, there are about 30 people going to primary school until 8th grade, to ensure the teaching of Croatian language for that small community in Kosovo, I believe that there will be some young person from the Republic who has just graduated from college or some person who has retired and who will be interested in teaching Croatian to those children and I think they deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142915	The second replica was sought by Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142916	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, here I would like to underline something that you, in this final word, have pointed out, and that is the importance of opening Croatikum or courses and all the capacities we have in the academic community in Croatia for the children of our emigrants, especially from South America. In addition to having one contact with the homeland, there are really new ways to open up, many not only seek citizenship but also stay living in the Republic of Croatia, and that is what we need. In this context, too, and the attention you have given to the situation in Venezuela and with our community there, that is something I would repeat here again, we have talked about this several times in this home and I don't think we should forget those Croats in Venezuela especially now that they are in need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142917	Mr. Miles' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142918	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Stier, exactly Croaticum as a course, so the university course held in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and soon and in Osijek, indeed takes not only importance through the fact that these young people will learn Croatian, it is a slightly wider set. So he gets that dimension where we can also talk about demographic measures. And we're on our way to talk, so we're looking for solutions that I think will be for these young people to get both jobs and learn a Croatian language. And so all that to see Croatia in its fullness to know its history, but also the present and the challenges that lie ahead of Croatia so that they can really look at it in its integrity, and then I believe that more will decide, so not only to take citizenship but to stay, stay and live in Croatia. And briefly about Venezuela, so that can be one of the solutions to the community in Venezuela, and so can There are others we talk about, and we will tell you everything that we know when the time comes. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142919	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142920	Thank you very much. For all the things the office has done, and those steps I warned the tribune to praise. It is also HTV correspondence, channel, language was not in Croatian they had no opportunity to hear the news, it triba.../incomprehensible/... However, what the office is doing, I repeat, is not enough from what comes from the Constitution, because the Croatian people are native.../incomprehensible/... and Croatia, as well as BiH. He's a constitutional people, we don't do enough, not enough. I'll praise that, you're saying Plenkovic went down to the current prime minister, and Zoran Milanovic went away, and I don't get along with either. He went to Mostar when there was a problem. Let's be realistic about commending everything that's good, however not enough, this area is extinct, it's a strategic interest in the survival of people in these areas. Too many people in these parts have given you blood for freedom of Bosnia and Croatia. It's too little of this, dear secretary, too little. and that's the tribune this House has come to a conclusion, too little. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142921	Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142922	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Bulj, I agree that it is too little, I agree that it should be more and I will repeat it is not a flossula, not because of constitutional obligation, these are members of the Croatian people. So we should look at them the same way we look at each other, as we look at our neighbors where we live and surely that you as well as this high house, so the Croatian Parliament can help with that. You can also, as we have brought the declaration of status and position of Croats to BiH, we can bring here and look for other solutions that will contribute to this. So, I agree that as an office as a coordinating body in the Republic of Croatia, we must give initiatives, strike a pace and direction, but we will not refuse to refuse any assistance that will be constructive and will contribute to the better position or this, as you have said, and I also often like to say, the survival of Croats, the survival of Croats in BiH. And what the Croats say, here for the end, I show you this book, so the Croats in Vojvodina issued by Matica Hrvatska in Stolc, for the Stolač Spring, so And that connection is needed, and that's where it's supposed to be built. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] all what is called Croatia, Croatian community. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142923	Thank you. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142924	Thank you very much. I will agree that the money that is here and my colleague Bulj speaks is not huge or that could be extra, but it takes a lot more and more sense and concepts and logic. So we do not see from these reports a concept of whether 40 million would mean much more and much more concrete than materially. We can also single out our colleague Bulj 200 million kunas, but if it's going to be divided by grandmothers and uncles by HDZ-dependent criteria, it won't be too useful. So I'd like to be persuaded here by the head of the office, that it makes some sense. It means he's not showing me books from Slovakia, he's showing me how many children are in Slovakia, our population, who are born, who do not know Croatian. Learned Croatian, that's something I'm interested in [[Thank you, Mr. Maras.]] or, for example, in some other countries. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142925	Mr. Miles' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142926	Here, short, short for the end, thank you, Mr. Maras, look well you said not everything in the money and it should be observed so. So, I repeat, it's not that help it's co-operation on what the Croats in BiH think they need and I don't want to repeat it to you, I don't want to just fill you with it, so I said at the beginning how many buildings are closed this year, so from now on, you won't say that the New Bill Hospital doesn't need Central Bosnia, it's closed 6 blocks, schools in Grudas where the number of first-years is soaring, thank God also grows in Posavina people don't have a water line in Odzak, so these are all projects that work in cooperation with them that have help with what Bulj, survival and life there's a decent man. So, with some civilizational conditions that will really contribute to keeping them in the area. A course of Croatian language, schools etc. to be implemented Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142927	You'll get another chance to finish it. Mr. Ragug is last. He's got the last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142928	State Secretary, you justifiably stressed the need to seek consensus in the Croatian Parliament so that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia could help Croats better, especially Croats in BiH. However many opportunities are now in the Croatian Parliament, I believe that we are going in the right direction for the reason that more or less can be heard as we heard today that the Republic of Croatia has done nothing for the Croats of Central Bosnia. And just as you said, the Republic of Croatia has helped the Croats of Central Bosnia survive, the White Way, the New Bill and the refusal of President Tudjman to accept Ali Izetbegovic's offer to take Hercegovina and leave it to Central Bosnia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142929	Mr. Miles' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142930	Thank you very much, Vice President. Agent Raguž, that's exactly how we show them the unity we're asking them to be. So what's good is let's not characterise it through a party, through politics, through a person, let's really look at it the way it is, and let's say what's wrong, but let's not mention the party again, let's say it is. Don't take political points on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, please. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142931	I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. A colleague of Hajdash Doncic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142932	Annual report on implementation of the Strategy and the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017. The applicant is the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The Annual Report on the Implementation of the Strategy and the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 98 votes for and 7 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent constituency working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142933	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on postal services, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 640; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate, colleague Bulj, please, thank you. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. My colleagues, please. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? With us is Mr Tomislav Mihotić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here's a colleague, actually, Mr. Mihotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142934	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, MPs. The applicable postal service law was adopted in 2012 and has been amended and completed twice over the past period, 2013 and 2015. First of all, because of the need to comply with the relevant EU acquis in the area of postal services. This law proposes third amendments to the Law on postal services which will regulate the legal framework for effective direct application in the domestic legal order of EU Regulation 2018/644 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 April 2018 on cross-border parcel delivery services. Basic questions to be settled by this law. This law will ensure the implementation of the cross-border package delivery Regulation in such a way as to prescribe the following: regulatory oversight of package delivery services, price transparency and price assessment for certain cross-border parcel delivery services in order to determine those prices which are unwarrantedly high, information for consumers that traders make available and concerning cross-border parcel delivery services, the determination of the Croatian Network Agency for the Network Activities of the Authority responsible for the implementation of that Regulation and the inspection control provisions and the non-compliance violation provisions under the rules laid down in that Regulation. Goals achieved by passing this law. The adoption of this law will encourage the improvement of cross-border parcel delivery services and ensure that domestic consumers and entrepreneurs take advantage of all the advantages of the single European market. By establishing a legal framework for more effective and regulatory market surveillance of parcel delivery and regulation of cross-border parcel delivery services. This law will also facilitate competition and increase price transparency in order to reduce unwarranted price differences in cross-border parcel delivery prices paid by citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular in remote and rarely populated areas. Finally, a reduction in price levels will allow for simpler and more reliable cross-border delivery, purchase and sale of goods and internet services, better protection of domestic consumers and a continuation of the trend in the growth of packaged shipments of electronic trade in the Republic of Croatia, or the growth of the domestic economy as a whole. Following the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to discuss and adopt the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142935	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague of Jelkovac, a colleague of Ćosic's? If not, I'm opening a debate. If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of counterparts Panenic, who shares the debate with counterpart Bul. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142936	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, respected ministry representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Of course we're adopting actually one change here that should actually even the price of services wherever we are. However, despite the fact that it is noted that we would all have a universal price, what we must mention is not the same everywhere, there is no intention of this service being the same because Croatian mails do not represent that rule. Croatian mail is exclusively for economic rules and many postal offices are closed. I believe there's not a single MP here who hasn't come across this particular problem that the post office is closed because there are no users. Then what happens to us is someone closes the post office, someone closes the county school, someone closes everything else, according to what's being sent to our residents? In the smallest place that there is, where only hope will be through such services, where the shops are closed, where we can assume that private companies have their own interest, we can't force them, but here where it comes to state-owned companies, where the services that need to be universally available, not only universally having a price, we act as if we're a private state. Everyone wants to reduce their loss and I can understand it, but tell me who in the Croatian Post Office will be responsible for the loss of people? Who in the Ministry of Education will be responsible for the disappearance of families who have no place to send their child? This topic we need to open, there is no directive, this is what we bear responsibility, where this country must be able to power, it cannot appear to us that, only the notice of "repealed post office" appears, temporarily abolished, which means "temporary", I am a temporary representative in HS, is my mandate set exactly, next year will expire, whether I will be extended, depending on the voters. If someone says in the post office that they temporarily closed a certain office, I expect us to know even when what's going on is that the office is being renovated, so it's going to be modern with a better service or just sounds better, so we're going to close it. What hurts me the most, and that's, and here's what happened to me, someone changed the number of mail, we just didn't do 32243, we became 32242, nobody informed the population, not one single notice, but it happened, it happens, and we just need to accept it. The postman who was in one post office, received mail, he now on the engine and during this winter should travel 15 km to take over that mail, freeze the man, freeze the man who needs to deliver that mail, and then talk about equality, price equality, but there is really no need for that if you have to go to the post office by the mile if the postman doesn't find you, and he needs to deliver something, just insert the notice “come and get your package into the post office”. Who's gonna pay that price? Who's paying for that transport that needs that service user to go away? It is not to walk within the place to the post office, it means if the kilometers and kilometers go to us to raise something, about which there is not even a hint of what might be happening to you, it happens to you there, as long as you consider only the financial needs, we talk about that you will have the degradation of all services if in this way you continue to act and make laws, do not implement policies that should be, I will say, it is also the demographic policies, that water and through state resources like Croatia mail, then we will have for the result that you will question us, in this term when there are now, here is a fellow Bulj will be behind me, so I will ask him to look at what our resources have in the field of closed mail order to list them, to see where all this is closed, is the policy that leads to the return of the population, which is more important to the Croatian people, which we have no longer had access to the Croatian people, but the Croatian people, to the Croatian people, that we have access to the law, Why did HDZ get only one vote there from what little came out? These are the questions we should be leading, if we have declared that by increasing the amount of funds we will encourage people to, to go to the elections, it might be better if we had rerouted these funds to the Croatian Post Offices, subsidized the work of these very postal offices, we would have helped the Croatian man more than we did by allowing a campaign that would have higher costs, and it is no wonder that here once speaking from the heart, I am trying to point out what weight everyone has their own legitimate reason, and that director wants to show a positive result, and that school director wants to say that he can survive, that he can provide teaching when so it is abolished. All have some legitimate interest only no one asks what is the interest of that man who should live there because he will stay in the desert one day, the Croatian desert on the salasa of agricultural goods where Croatian peasants are likely to come from cities where they will live to perform their work assignments daily, and those areas are today when we are run over by numerous immigrants who are going, who will notice them, stop or do anything when there are no people, if there is no Croatian man there who will even fight to protect the Croatian border. Will the planes that are flying solve the security problems? It won't happen without that resident who's really out there. Here, I'm going to ask my colleague, Bull, to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142937	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142938	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary. The market is very important and mail needs to be arranged, however, in a social state where two thirds of Croatia have been emptied, where mail and postal offices are essentially the only way where people socialise and essentially demographic and measure because there is someone there who has to work and there is also some tradition and some of the institutions of those smaller places that have been forgotten anyway, which have a little bit lost all of those attributes that had some kind of institutions such as schools, homes of health, outposts in this case have lost a number of mail. Now that I look at these directives, I know that these directives say that the market must be the way it is, the EU must have all the same criteria, but we, as Parliament, have an obligation in certain areas to preserve certain postal offices. We have an obligation, it is unimaginable to me that everyone who calls for a symbol of resistance in the Homeland War, which is Kiev, which was also sang and which was a great sacrifice unfortunately, has experienced an exodus and has been restored mail, a mail building, but 28.1. ... No matter what the mail has been refurbished, it exists as a building currently that post office, as they say, is temporarily closed, a post office in Kiev. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And from Kiev to Knin, there's about 30 miles out, but literally, the office is shutting down and the school is now shutting down, and you've now shut down the office. We have a number, I'm going to count now, so 27 of you shut down the smaller post office. That's what the state has to worry about in that area, that's all those places have. And it's a demographic measure. The postman in this village is a demographic measure, and the state should subsidise him to survive. This place is a place of life where people collapse, see if the mail came from theirs, what they have to take over, and in this way you send a terrible bad message that the market is the most important thing. Yes, the market is very important where competition is equal where we have it, but nobody here wants to come unless the state raises its hands from those areas. And turn off the mail in these areas. Here I am... In Dalmatia, here on Korčula, there's a colleague of Bacic, two of whom turned off their mail to connect with Korčula. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm looking down at Rogotin's Mlinisti Stastice at Metkovic's, it's all shut down. I'm looking up here, I'm heading towards the Cetitna Krajina, shut down, like Han, the centuries-long transition to BiH, there from Dalmatia, back in Venice, shut down the post office. I don't know why it's the politics of this government and of all governments, especially those that have now shut down the mail. I said, there are around Knin watching, watching, seeing that the national minority is in power, the national minority is now in Croatia most of it. I can't understand that in the areas where Milorad Pupovac comes from, the post office is shut down and as a great fighter for the protection of national minorities, as your majority partner, respected secretaries. Is it possible that he opposed you to not doing this in the area or is it enough to be an ethnic businessman? Here I am opposed to shutting down the post office where Milorad Pupovac came from, where I live. Well, you have to, I mean, the state needs some kind of symbol that, I mean, it's also the most important thing to people. I started talking about Kiev and I'm not gonna stop there, I don't know if there's two or three primarys just. But only because of the state's behaviour, except for the county that obediently decentralised funds don't point where they should be directed. I'm also talking about Zagor because of what, of course, when we talk about Zagora positively and when we want to make some affirmative suggestions, they say better that Zagora did not give birth to you, but Mr Mihotic knows, he draws partly and certain roots from that area. So take my colleague Mihotić and I, I will be with you no matter what anyone has said and we will visit, so you will see the post office in Kiev, symbol of Croatia's resistance... So you'll see the mail shut down temporarily. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does it mean to temporarily turn off the mail in Kiev, on Han and all these places without speaking in Gorski Kotar, then this colleague Klaric, his it's a county there, he's down a little closer, but his county, around Novalja down, all the mail you've turned off in smaller places. For those places mail means life, everything about that mail revolves around. And the state in these underdeveloped areas simply has to do everything to survive, regardless of which it is not commercial but is important for the survival of the people in that area. One of those drops in sequence in that mosaic. And that is why I call once again, let us not just refer to the directives that we prescribe in the legislation, we, the EU, have our specialities, 2/3 of Croatia that have been evicted and that are empty territory. Any shutting down of certain institutions, the post office in those places that are far from the central places is a blow to further devastation of these areas as regards demographics. Here, that's my key next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142939	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the next colleague is Tomislav Klaric, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Mr. Claric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142940	My colleagues and fellow MPs, we have prepared a written debate, but I will look back a little on what we just heard. So, our generations most of us here remember well these beautiful times when each of our little places had a post office, a post office, a postal number, when you were gathering, you were finding people, and in a way we were the identity of that place. However, while I was listening to the previous discussion in front of me was a cell phone, in 2000 my first cell phone had that antenna we pulled had that wheel on the side of the ton and we had to run about 500 meters, 300 meters, to catch some kind of signal. Technology goes forward and just about 2 months ago when the debate should be supported by some kind of life story we changed not winter on summer tires, I believe that most of you, but many of our citizens over the Internet ordered their summer tires and the second day were already delivered to him outside the house. That's what I'm listening to, Mr. Bull, so it bothers me when I talk, that's five, six, seven, eight years ago something like that was unimaginable. And for that very reason, this is what we're talking about today and the subject of this law, exactly what I mentioned. So, among other things, trade is, among other things, modernization and a different way of life for both us and our citizens, and what we have to sort of regulate these newspapers with laws. So, before us is the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Postage Services, which brings Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the EU and, as the applicant pointed out, by creating a legal framework with a direct note of the EU Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council of 18 April 2018 on cross-border parcel delivery services. In particular, regulatory oversight regarding package delivery services, price transparency and information for consumers that traders make available and relate to cross-border parcel delivery services is ensured. We have had numerous cases of discrepancy, the world has become what one can say somewhere in the towers, and in the media read, some kind of global village. We have become all the close and transport connections, the air link, all the new boundaries that have been created here allow faster flow of both people and goods. So it kind of has to be regulated, and that's exactly what these amendments are all about, that's what they're all about. It can't happen that I don't know any package from Norway to the recipients here in Croatia has a different price than there is some package from Germany to Norway or Croatia to Norway, which is currently happening. So the proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Transport and Communications rightly ruled that we must make these adjustments. We need to impose some kind of control over all of this, we need to agree on a regulation and we need to impose some criminal provisions that power, a breacher of what is stated in this law, will in some way be punished. Therefore, the regulation complements the rules laid down in the Postal Services Directive, the postal services Directive itself lays down a common rule on the arrangements for the provision of postal services, and in particular applies to a universal service within the EU. That's exactly what I just said, an example of Norway – Croatia, an example of Germany – Croatia or the return of Croatia and different distributors that deliver I don't know such packages. With the big ones, it's me, for example. I know from the experience of the businessmen they already have it in some way in a little bit and orderly way because they are large suppliers, big traffic is done and then these distributors give them some different benefits so that in some way this applies primarily to small and our citizens. Therefore, due to all these differences, there were additional administrative burdens, compliance costs for providers of packages operating across borders, and these differences seemed.../incomprehensible/... in the cross-border provision of parcel delivery services, thus affecting the functioning of the single European market. In order to make legal assumptions about the effective direct comment of the Regulation, the Law on postal services should be laid down by the authority responsible for its implementation, that is, what I was saying earlier. Which body could be in the Republic of Croatia, if not HAP. Therefore, the applicant has re-determined and re-indemanded here, or by law, that these too will extend the powers of the inspection supervision to be carried out by HAKOM. It is prescribed that, out of the powers laid down by HACOM, the inspection supervision governing the obligation of all traders to make available appropriate information to all consumers making purchase contracts involving the cross-border sending of the package shall be carried out by the market inspectors of the central state authority responsible for inspection tasks in the field of consumer protection. It also complements the infringements of the Law on postal services in such a way as to prescribe appropriate fines for breach of the provisions of the Regulation. Again what I just said. So, the one who will oversee it is HAKOM, is in line with the entire EU area, and penalties are being imposed for offenders. I think it's quite clear and that you don't need to talk too much about it. Today in postal activity, new trends. We have a range of new innovative postal services that the provider offers to users in line with EU trends on the postal market in Croatia, a drop in the total number of postal services is recorded. And then we go back to what we all regret. Sorry to close the post office in some small village in Gorski Kotar, as my colleague Bulj mentioned. We're sorry to close the post office in some neighborhood of mine in my town. But who's the last time maybe from you here who we are or from our viewers who follow us sent us some kind of postcard, some kind of letter? Who, besides the large number of our pensioners, came to some post office to pay some kind of favor, some kind of utility bill? So, a full story about mail, postal services change. Just like he used to change from that postage carriage to the steaming machine and now, we remember all the good things about those plane envelopes we sent to our relatives in America. Now it's so advanced that basically once we push the button that we're all so networked with e-mails, mails, whatsappima, viberima, so the information, messages, the way people communicate at that time from 10, 20, 30 and not much more years ago. When we look at how many new digital technology modes are coming into the market. Now there's already been a lot of talk about the conflict between China, America, we're talking about a 5G network. It is all something that not only will this regulation be able to predict, but it will probably require additional adjustments to something that brings us a near future. It's all closely related to what we just said. Our previous item on the agenda where the Croatians were also spoken about outside the country. I sounded it, and I left it in my ear, one sentence from the secretary of state, Mr. Milos. There was this observation that our people were going to Ireland in a very large number, and he said here in front of all of us, and I think even in this debate we can even mention it. Yes, but the Irish were on their way out of Ireland. Because it was hard to live in Ireland and it wasn't exactly a great situation. But now these same Irish who were leaving Ireland come back massively from Ireland because the conditions were created for them to live better there and have higher incomes. I hope that with all these moves that we are making, with the entry into the EU, with respect for these directives, with the adaptation and adoption of these regulations, of these laws, where we will also follow trends in the world market, where we will enable our citizens and digital technology, the optics, all those modern spheres that are currently coming out of the market, that we will also succeed in encouraging that part of the other economy, to enable that part of prosperity that same young people who have scattered around the world to have a place to go back in this way. Finally, from the report on the work of HACOM for 2018, to look back, and then it is a link to what I just did, perhaps it may sound unrelated to someone, that market liberalisation and the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the single EU postal market have a particular impact on international postal traffic where, except 2016, the number of services in cross-border exchange has increased from year to year. The exception was not even in 2017 in which over 26 million services were delivered, i.e. 6.4% more than in the previous year. By increasing the total number of services in international transport, its share on the total market is increasing, so that international transport takes up more than 8% of the total postal market. The desperate growth of international traffic, the increased impact of incoming traffic, where much of the services related to e-commerce belong. That's exactly what I was saying earlier when I mentioned that example of buying summer, winter tires, and now every day we're bombarded through our network with some e-Buys, with some offers, and that's a simple reality. It is realistic to expect a continuation of the positive movement in international transport, in particular because in 2018, a Regulation on cross-border parcel delivery services aimed at greater price transparency and consumer protection and what is exactly right in the 2017 HACOM Work Report that I have drawn and set as an example is precisely the one that relates to these packages. So, no more postcards, no more letters, no more why we're classically in need of this post office that my predecessors mentioned before, so we've identified ourselves with a place and with that number of 5100 or that was already in some kind of post office, but this is about a completely different model, a modern model that's much faster, and here in this data we can't say that the mail is kind of falling apart, if we see that the revenues are increasing, if we see that the numbers of senders are increasing, simply, modernization has brought its own. And finally, since there is no more time, I have prepared a lot more to say as an example, for all of this reason that I have cited here and all of these facts that simply no one can bring down and that we are also a member of the EU, there is no reason why such a proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Postage Services will not be accepted, so the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142941	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club is counterpart Nada Turina Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministry, on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, I will say, we will support this proposal to amend the law in the first reading. The principle was, of course, always the position of me and my colleagues in the club that the laws that are, in fact, the content of which is, mostly refers to harmonising with EU directives that by the logic of things, given that we are a member of the EU, we will support unless we are on some way to get out of that community as some are, and we know what the consequences are. And here, just on this bill, and on this proposal and this directive, we see, in fact, that's why I've come to the debate, we see how many EU politicians today, in fact, resent or offer some other solutions, not to say, offer and drastic solutions to get out of the EU, are precisely showing this kind of law, or this directive, how important it is to have one such community that works constructively towards all EU citizens, in the same way it wants to treat them with the same opportunities, the same opportunities, the same standards, no matter where they live. And in the right to a specific question of my committee or the question of the Ministry's representative to try to explain to us in plastic terms what it brings us, which brings to our citizens the application of these directives and precisely to try to standardise it, or to control the service providers in relation to the cross-border delivery of the package, which means that the price of services within the EU should be approximately the same if our control body, which will control the establishment of this law or the application of this law, will do its job, which means that our citizens will be sending a package to any destination in the EU, will pay roughly the same amount, we cannot claim exactly the same as those citizens who from that destination anywhere in Europe, will be sent anywhere in the Republic of Croatia. It is a big thing for citizens and entrepreneurs, especially today when a good part of trade and ordinary trade are actually done via the Internet and where delivery or final service is done in a way that delivers packages and which, too often, even with us and personal experience, I know, have been burdened with very high prices of postage which in fact this product which may have been essentially very favourable in offering on the line, turned into an expensive product if, if the delivery was by mail. We hope, or we are certain, that the adequate application of this law and supervision of implementation will do so to be equal with all other citizens, or all EU countries, in the same way. Here's why we should be in the future, for a very specific reason, so we are today, here we are, fat in the afternoon, all day of 9 and a half discussing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the government's relationship... the office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which is an extremely important topic for me, but interesting that there were 10th and more discussions on this subject, not to say more dozen replicas, and that on this topic which is actually extremely important and should be commended that the Republic of Croatia reacts without delay and within some appropriate time to implement a directive that is directly to the benefit of its citizens, that there are only 3 reports of debates. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU is useful, we should be the ones who encourage and initiate certain changes in, let's call it, EU legislation, which will benefit everyone, not only for the sake of the Republic of Croatia, but for the benefit of all EU citizens and to equalise their market conditions. As regards these postal services, there have been many obstacles within the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the possibilities and chances of the survival of the state mail in relation to competition and the opening of the market, which has also been imposed in some way by the EU or by the free market at EU level. We have seen that space is opening up here and for mail in one activity that we may not have expected to open as one big market niche, in this case it is package delivery, it is opening up, it is opening up, it is opening up, it is opening up, it is opening up through the use of the Internet, through a huge globalisation of everything and the markets in general so that we have to adapt to it, but as a small one, we have to just insist on respecting the rules of the game and that standards are respected because usually in this globalisation, it is usually the most easily affected ones, the chance that we are right through the EU and the EU directives that we are going through this negotiating table where we are negotiating about those who are less powerful but whose word can still be heard through such integration as the EU, and especially I say about these postal services, there have been a lot of controversy, and there were also a lot of discussions about the closure or closure of some postal offices in RS, we must be in time. Of course, we are not in a position to shut down the majority or all the offices that are estimated not to have enough traffic or to benefit from the Croatian Post Office itself, they must simply be in certain areas, but we must follow new trends and all the opportunities offered by new technologies, especially those related to writing various letters, messages and all other materials that were otherwise sent by mail, and today they are sent by electronic means and there is certain that they are losing some of their role but here are some other places where mail opens their new niches and I think we have to fight to offer even more quality standards and that we are as one small country within the EU, however, that we are pushing those standards at the European table or in negotiations with big, despite the global changes that go unfortunably and always at the expense of the smaller ones. What follows us is this story about the broadband Internet when we are already talking about mails on the edges of Croatia or in rural areas, it is also a great opportunity to even the chances of doing business but also for a decent life in those areas despite the distance from some centres and yet they may not be more infrastructure-based in some other ways more quality of these spaces connected and we need to stand up for it. As a state, we must, of course, represent what is the benefit of all our citizens and also draw attention to the GLAS Court, especially here, because we are obliged to apply the European directives and build them into our laws, to be initiators and to seek our positions, or to defend our interests in the right way, and I will mention only one here because I come from that region. As you know, the conclusion of the European Parliament on which the TNT network will be spread, or where certain projects will be able to be introduced, and they are specifically related to some corridors located in the area of the Republic of Croatia, one of these is also the corridor towards the port of Rijeka or the strengthening of the port of Rijeka and I appeal to work on it, this is not a chance, but it is the only possibility that the port of Rijeka will survive as important, I will not say the most important because we seem to have missed this train rather than a very important port on this part of the Mediterranean, our work as the deepest point of entry of the sea into the mainland. In fact, we have to start talks with Slovenia regarding the construction of infrastructure that will ensure the integration of Croatia and Slovenia and thus give the Croatian ports, above all the port of Rijeka a chance for further development and further investment, I have used this a little bit as a digression from the topic, I think it is important and I think it is important precisely because as a member, I would even say insufficiently aggressively, we represent our interests, especially in relation to neighbours and especially in relation to economic issues. We are more concerned or mainly about ideological issues and we are underly concerned with our economic interests, and this is one of the good examples, which means interest, economic interest and the interest of citizens in the focus of lawmaking. That is why here is the appeal for us to work a little more intensively in that direction if we want the economy as a whole to benefit more from EU membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142943	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142944	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on postal services, first reading, P.Z. Number 640. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 103 for, 9 abstentions and 5 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142945	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - The list of candidates for the selection of four members of the HRT Programme Council is submitted to the Committee for Information, Information and Media on the basis of Article 25. HRT law. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Sunny Glavak, to further explain the list of candidates submitted. Here you go, fellow Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee for Information, Information and Media at the 24th session held on 23 January 2018 discussed the candidates received for the selection of four members of the HRT Programme Council published on 16 November 2018 in the National Journal and on the website of the Croatian Parliament, HRT and HINA. The deadline for the application was 15 days after the publication of the public call and the last day of the period was 1 December 2018. It has been established that 12 candidates received within the deadline have arrived on a public call and that all 12 meet the conditions laid down in the public call and in accordance with the HRT Act. In accordance with Article 25(8), The Law on HRT provides the Committee on Information, Information and Media with a list of candidates to the Croatian Parliament, who will vote individually on all proposals that meet the conditions for selection and decision, with the majority of the votes cast by all MPs. Of course, those candidates who will receive the highest number of votes have been elected. The Committee for Information, Information and Media without Discussing is unanimously with 8 votes to reach the conclusion that the conditions for selecting four members of the HRT Programme Council are prescribed by public invitation and the Law on HRT are met by the following candidates whose résumés are published and you have them in materials: Dr. Science Josip Čerina, Dr. Franko Dota, Lidija Gašparović, Dr. Krešimir Jakovina, Dr. Science Zdravko Kejjo, Petar Lovrić, Želir Mesarić, Aleksandar Milošević, Dr. Science Ivica Miskolin, Krešimir Planinić, Tomislav Radić and Dr. Science Antun Vujić. In accordance with this conclusion, the Committee, for information, information and media on the list of candidates for the selection of four members of the Programme Council, also referred to the plenary session, and I ask you to accept this conclusion of the Committee, today we will, of course, be followed by the debate and we will probably vote when the voting term is set in the plenary session in accordance with the way it is prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142947	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. The first was registered on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST fellow Miro Bulj. His colleagues are gone, according to the Rules of Procedure, he loses his right to debate. Next on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, counterpart Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142948	Thank you, dear Vice President. The HRT Programme Council has not met since December. And why is that? Because two members of the Programme Council who have been elected to the HDZ proposal are not coming to meetings, so the Programme Council has no quorum, and so this form of control on HRT does not work. One famous historian, known for his auditist attitudes, often visiting the HRT programme because editors call him, I guess because of his auditism, the other is from Matica Hrvatska. So much for Matica Croatia and so much for his member who won't, simply won't, people don't come to meetings and there's no quorum. And this choice has stalled since, here we heard from the president, actually since December, since January 23rd when we had a session. Here, now we're in the 6th month. So much this body cares about Parliament and parliament to establish this form of control over HRT. And it certainly suits you that there is no such oversight or that it is as small as possible. It is a great responsibility of the members of the Programme Council, because the quality of the programme on HRT has collapsed to an end. It's no longer public television, it's, in fact, there's no reason for people to even pay an 80 kuna fee because they don't get any public service. It's full of historical auditism. So just look at the TV calendar and other information shows where one Juru Francetic is called a fearless military commander, that is, a syntagma used on public television for Jura Francetic. In the past, when it came to the standard Croatian literary language, it was, it was worth until the '90s. So there was a syntagma that said what is a standard Croatian literary language? It is a language spoken at the Zagreb Radiotelevision, as it was then called. It was a visual example. I worked there then and I know if it would happen, if the speaker was wrong in the accent, so it was called to the great college to discuss it. I'll remind you of just some cultural leaders, you didn't know if they were nicer, whether they were more educated, whether they speak better, Jasmina Nikic, Gordana Bonetic, Ksenija Urličić, Helga Vlahović, these were icons, icons of HRT, or Radiotelevision Zagreb. Today you have to defend children to watch HRT so they don't spoil their language. Because the way it's spoken on HRT, that's a terrible thing to say. Well there's a miracle that happens if they hit the accent washed away, a miracle. There are several documentary emissions, one in the production of HRT itself, whose production began several years ago, it is called no less than the Independent State of Croatia. It was discussed for the purposes of the show with 30 historians, not only from Croatia, but also from BiH, Slovenia, Austria, it was recorded not only in Zagreb but was recorded in BiH, Serbia, Great Britain, Germany, Italy. One of the authors is also the famous historian Hrvoje Klasic. It was bought, bought from Serbia for more than two hours of documentary material made from 41th to 45th by the Croatian Painting, that's what it was called. These are rarely seen or never seen material. It's an extremely valuable building. Instead of 6 shows, as far as it was supposed to be, the authors made 12 shows that couldn't be completed and there's no time to install, and there's no installer. So it's not exactly forbidden to work on that, on that series, but he's trying to disable it. In every way possible. It's the policy of the house at this point. The formal reason, he says, and look, there shouldn't be 12 shows when we ordered 6. It's almost like some department ordered six cars, and the manufacturer said, "Here, I'll give you 12 for that same money because the author's team didn't raise the funds, the budget for that documentary series." And they say, no, we don't want 12 but 6. Well, wait, but you'll get 12 for the same money. No, it's six. It's such a reasoning. Well, I don't know which I.Q. must have a person to do something like that. That would be interesting to examine. Manipulation on HRT. Once a month, research is carried out, an independent house is conducting a study on preferences for political parties, and so a research is being done for preferences for the election of the President of the Republic. There's no telling why Mr. Miroslav Skoro was found on that list. Before he announced his candidacy. And the HRT orders which names will be examined. That's what HRT does. Now, if that's a calculation inside the HDZ, I have no idea. But that it's one completely unprofessional piece of work, one manipulation, that's obvious. There's another documentary show that was made about the play, the Rijeka play about the murder of Aleksandra Zeca. Although, it's about external production, HRT has to buy one part of its program from external production, this, you see, is not. Her name is, I think her name is Serbian. And why is she called a Serb because that girl who plays Alexandra Rabbit had a shock when she realized she wasn't a Croatian. So Mom asked if I was Serbian, she didn't even know how to say it. She's in the show playing Alexander Rabbit and therefore a documentary show about how the show was done. Very interesting material, of course for HRT, that HRT is not interested at all. They buy five-packed documentary shows or shows and show it, and people pay 80 kn every month. So I'm wondering, what for? Let's think about canceling that fee, so since it's party television, which is party, HDZ, let's let it pay HDZ. They've got a lot of money in their bags and black bags they've been carrying to the party, so they can use that money for HRT. Because this doesn't make sense, you know, that all people pay for one party TV, it just lost every sense. Therefore, we think that it is necessary to access the selection of these 4 members of the Programme Council as soon as possible in order to put the Programme Council in office to start working, to start monitoring the programme because the responsibility of this programme council is in these conditions and with this work of HRT too important to make it difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142949	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a colleague of Suncana Glavak. Here you go, fellow Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given that it is the HRT Programme Council, I will agree with my predecessor that it is necessary to fill the Programme Council with the remaining 4 members and that the Programme Council must be in office, first of all because the Programme Council represents and protects the public's interest by implementing programme surveillance and improving radio and audiovisual programmes, so this does not apply only to television that is always focused when we talk about HRT and other audio and audiovisual and media services. The Council or the HRT Programme Council shall have 11 members. HS was and resolves 9 members of the HRT council, so we will choose 4. The selection of HS members is based on a public call, as you have heard, which is the Committee on Information, Information and Media and has done. 2 members of the HRT Council shall be selected and resolved by journalists and other HRT employees who are creatively involved in the creation of the HRT programme and provided for by the Law on HRT and the Statute of the HRT. As a rule, the Council is meeting once every 3 months, fellow Stazic, unfortunately left, said there was no quorum, that we too have such information, that there was no quorum and I believe that all those chosen and who were given confidence to participate in the work of the Programme Council, for which they receive compensation, must respond to the sessions and, of course, make decisions. The HRT Council, in addition, appoints and resolves the president of the HRT Council, and the mandate, just to remind the president and members of the council, lasts 4 years and every 2nd year. It is named half of the members of the HRT Council. Why the full composition of the HRT Council is important to us, and so is the HDZ in the interest of all 11 members, among other things the Council appoints a Commissioner for HRT users who is in charge of examining complaints and suggestions from viewers, listeners or other users of HRT services, therefore, all those who pay the fee, and, of course, the Commissioner submits a report to the HRT Council twice a year to discuss it at their next session. As for the invitation to stop watching HRT and that HRT has broken its standards, I would say quite the opposite, but in the part that we call, of course, everyone to watch HRT because it has one added value that other televisions do not have, not diminishing their importance, of course, which is that of its educational, scientific, general social, contribution and role that is actually defined by the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so what all HRT must do to naturally represent the interests of citizens, including national minorities and achieve it in its programming capacity. What my predecessor said, he called for it to stop or consider paying the fee, and I would not agree with that, so HRT is among other things, there is no only payment from the monthly fee, so in 2016. For example, although we will discuss this when we will discuss the report of the HRT and the Supervisory Board, it was €80,00, it has been detained for 7 years. on the same level, and it will certainly not increase. However, I must say that, for example, 17 000 pensioners have gained the privilege of not paying the fee, whether it can be reduced, that is something we can discuss, however, we need to know that by paying the fee, that our payment to HRT allows a whole series of creative industries and investments in HRT, therefore, and people who work and operate within HRT, and that's not just what we see on the screen. So, we will, of course, discuss HRT's work, about their financial effects, just one little digression when I mention it, that the trend of positive business on HRT is, however, what we have warned about, and we will see in which direction it will go, when a whole series of new media laws will be passed, for example, the Law on the Media, the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on HINA, whether there is a need to go into any other legislative changes, given that we see the continuing shortcomings of the Law on HRT which, I will recall once again, during the SDP Government, was first adopted by non-consensus of all political parties, and I think it is obviously in everyone's interest that public service be a public service in the full sense of the word. What I would also like to praise, which is what we could hear in the first point today, so HRT also turned to our fellow BiH citizens, so Croatians and Croats have the opportunity to inform in their native language. Likewise, I must commend the work of correspondence throughout the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we as Parliamentarians should not and should not interfere with editorial policy, and unfortunately everyone likes to talk about it by analysing individual emissions and individual programmes, but in any case what the programme council must do, and that is what I mentioned, which is the greatest added value of HRT, it is to meet all those principles that are prescribed and contracted with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is for us to see how much in fact all these programming principles and everything that is prescribed by the contract are actually fully fulfilled. I expect the members of the programming council when they are fully completed, so that the meetings are held regularly even though it is prescribed that every three months, if there is a need for this to be more frequent and of course HS, so that the Media Information and Information Committee always stands at a disposition for everything in the public interest and, of course, we as parliamentary representatives can contribute to making the public service more efficient and relevant in these areas. Finally, fellow Stazic, I am sorry that he is not there, so it is a little unusual to answer him now, so he is talking about some TV that is in the service of the ruling party, I will just remind, by simple analysis, that, for example, in the fourth program of HRT, a colleague of Gordan Maras, so much about who has the media attention on HRT and how much I follow, and it is not exactly me following, I don't think that ratio is really on the side, conditionally speaking, the ruling majority, but exactly the opposite, and I think that everyone who wants to visit, who is invited, can also be in the shows so-called. contact type or open type, express your opinions, as shown by all information shows, especially in the Open when we talk about Croatian television or Good Morning or when we talk about Croatian radio, Polygraph, In the network first etc. In any case, the HDZ Club will, of course, have its proposals and candidates for 4 members of the programme council, or in accordance with the agreement of the parliamentary majority and parliamentary minority so far, we will agree on what kind of ratio there will be and who will be 4 new members of the programme council, or who will vote on that when the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142951	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142952	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, this point should be discussed and agreed on who will be sitting among the new members, namely the candidates proposed in the HRT Programme Council, our public service. Probably part of the MPs thinks that they can significantly influence the HRT programme itself, and that by political agreement, we will achieve that by entering some people who may represent some policies, some interests, perhaps some ideologies. I mean, it's all legitimate. What's important is that we found with ourselves that it's going to be a political agreement and that we know it here in the assembly, and that it knows the clarity. I would like to remind you that according to the Law on HRT, the Programme Council, as it is now set, has a demanding and important task, which is to monitor and monitor the implementation of the Programme Agreement between HRT and the Government. As for the Programme Council itself, in particular their work, I personally believe that it is important that a body that does not now have some too much authority, some mechanisms, leverages that can carry out one's role, but can therefore point to failures in the implementation of the Programme Treaty. I think that the current composition of the Programme Council worked well, that it worked very well, that it was critical, although it was actually a large part of the criticism and time of work of this Programme Council, the leadership of the HRT put the Programme Council on the ignorer, and in some ways it seems that the Program Council is speaking in the wind. I'd like to remind you that the Programme Council is in 12 months. Last year did not give a positive opinion on the 2019 HRT work programme, and that it requested an amendment and addition of the 2018 Report, therefore, requested the correction and addition of the Report on the achievement of the objectives and obligations set out in the HRT Treaty with the Government for the past year. We also held discussions here in the Parliament on reports from the Programme Council, where it was clearly written, so that they are asking the Director and Director of other responsible people on HRT for certain information, additions, corrections, and that the responsible people are completely deafening it. What we actually had was actually disrespecting this House itself, that the requirements that were addressed by HS or by the competent Media Committee were not actually respected. Now we actually have a situation that despite the wishes, perhaps the efforts of HRT leadership, the quality of the program is falling, the ratings are falling, in fact the relevance of the media itself, that is, the institution itself is falling. I would remind you that a few days ago we marked the day of the Croatian Parliament. We therefore marked the first constitution of the First Multi-party Assembly, 30.5.1990, and that it was this Assembly, which was the first law to be passed by the Multi-party Parliament, that was the Law on HRT, and that was the first law on HRT on 29.06.1990, so it will be almost 29 years, which only shows how important television, i.e. public service and media as such was. Today we have commercial television, today we have Internet, portals, various platforms through which people are informed, entertained and otherwise filled with their time and probably, in fact, not likely but certainly no longer the HRT will have such importance. But we can't say that even today the role of public television is meaningless. As many viewers as there are, there are as many selectors, as that applies, I don't know, for the football team, so does the program. Every viewer of the program has their own thoughts on what the program should look like. That's how I would have, but we're here discussing the Programme Council that actually plays this role, which is what we as a Parliament are really transferring and giving, so we're choosing people who are going to criticise the program, who are going to try to make the program better, that the programme is for the benefit of all viewers, that the interests of everyone are represented, that the interests of everyone are balanced. Of course, I say, I have an opinion on the programme itself, like everyone else, I would not be going to the widest and list individual cases that I could criticise because it would have lasted and I would have certainly exceeded my allowed time for the debate, but I would have taken one of the freshest examples that, I think, my colleague Stazic mentioned, but not quite the right way, and a few days ago it was news in the media, that HRT refused to buy out the award-winning Serbian documentary who, therefore, won the Heart of Sarajevo and 3 international awards and now recently received the Vladimir Nazor State Award for Best Film Realisation in 2018. I think these awards should be enough recommendations, enough recommendations to buy one of those... If these rewards, especially considering that the Vladimir Nazor State Prize is not a recommendation, then I don't know what should, which should be a recommendation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then of course it happens that the quality of the content of the program falls and I actually think it fell to the lowest branches there is. This must be influenced by some moves that are not closely related to the programme, as we had a bad episode from a few months ago where HRT sued some media and journalists, I don't think that public service should allow it, that it should always go to a peaceful solution, or avoid any kind of withdrawal in court. In conclusion, however, I hope that we here will choose quality candidates and candidates and that the renewed composition of the Programme Council will continue its work as before, that it will continue its work critically, therefore with constructive criticism, that it will warn, indicate, make remarks on what is in the programme bad because the criticism of the Programme Council and of us here who are once discussing the programme because the moves on HRT are not because we pay and step on HRT, and we may, sometimes, have very legitimate reasons, but that is precisely what we are trying to make HRT better. To be a real public service to the benefit of all citizens and to be found there. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142953	Thank you, too. That's what I'm closing the argument. The following is: - Proposal for a Law on the Study of Origin of Assets and the confiscation of illegally acquired assets, first reading, P.Z. 390; is proposed by the Living Wall Representatives Club and the SNAGA on the basis of Article. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The proposer's representative is gone, so I'm closing the debate, and I'm concluding a debate for today. We will continue tomorrow at 9:00 and 30 minutes with the Final Proposal of the freshwater fishing law, second reading, P.Z. No. 515. Have a good afternoon. Session adjourned at 16,20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142954	Now we're going to the list of candidates for the selection of four members of the HRT Programme Council. The applicant shall be the Information, Information and Media Committee. This is my colleague, Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142955	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for asking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club before we join the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142956	You're looking for a consult? Okay. So we continue at 13.05 p.m. It's 12.55 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.03 HOURS]] We're not voting on this wheel today. We're voting on conditions. So we're done for today with the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142959	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Please explain, what ministers are concerned, when will they be resolved, when will be a session? So it's not okay, it's not okay, I'm not going to sit down, so you're not going to tell me to sit down, it's not right for the Croatian Parliament that appoints the Croatian government to give Croatian citizens who expect the most corrupt government since '90. To this day...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142960	Comrade Maras now, please, I've let you go, now you're making political views. Please stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142961	It's not right that we don't know who's coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142962	Comrade Maras, I'm sorry I have to exclude you because you're abusers of the Rules of Procedure. No, no, no. Please sit down. Comrade Maras, if you want to make statements of this kind you can't do it right now because it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure So I announced the possibility, I said I'd probably call, so you can plan it. [[Intruder: You encouraged it.]] A proposal on that, a proposal, so I don't know when, I'm just announcing that possibility. So, I said, I said most likely, so prepare to be ready to come within a few days after I tell you. Be my guest, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142963	Thank you, Mr. President. I have well-intentioned this information of yours, to prepare ourselves, and here I am also well-intentioned to announce that we will request the recall of a number of ministers so that you can count on it, so that you too can prepare for the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-05-0.u142964	Okay, here we go now, thank you for the information, everyone knows everything now, so let's go to the last point, it's a list of candidates for the selection of four members of the HRT Programme Council. The applicant is the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the debate is closed. In accordance with Article 25(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on HRT proposed candidates are considered elected if they are voted by the majority of the total number of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. 76. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall determine as a rule the implementation of a secret vote in the case where the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number to be elected. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Art shall apply. 260.-267. Madam and gentlemen, I suggest that three MPs help me conduct a secret vote and that of my colleagues Sabina Vosovac, Ljubica Maksimmuk and Mato Čičak. You can find the leaves in the usual place, etc., I can see that everyone knows everything. The apartment will be 30 minutes until the results are published. A meeting at 14.02 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.33 HOURS]] I declare that out of 151 MPs, the ballot received 89 MPs, 89 voted, there were 1. The candidates received the following number of votes, Josip Čerina 3, Franko Dota 3, Lidija Gašparović 79, Company Jakovina 25 25, Zdravko Kedžo 81, Petar Lovrić 2, Želir Mesarić 0, Aleksandar Milošević 54, Ivica Miskorelin 34, Krešimir Planinić 1, Tomislav Radić 1 and Antun Vujic 7, so I declare that Lidija Gašparević and Zdravko Kejjo were elected to the HRT programme council. This concludes the 12th session, and to those chosen, congratulations. Thank you very much. SESSION FINISHED IN 14.35 HOURS
