ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174856	Mr Giovanni Sponza will now be the position of the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At this time, colleagues and colleagues are in charge of more than 200 judicial disputes in Istria County against municipalities and cities in order to establish property rights that are designated as forests or agricultural land in land books and catastros. These disputes cover over 2,000 cadastar particles whose total area exceeds 15 million m2. On all property subject to these court proceedings, municipalities and cities have been registered as owners of powerful judicial decisions dating back to the early 1990s and after the establishment of the Republic of Croatia and here. The legal basis of all these ownership entries in favour of the municipality and cities was that they were all these properties on the day of 16 October '90. the year and on the day of July 24, 1991. the years were within the boundaries of the construction area of these units, so they were covered by spatial-planning documentation. It should be pointed out that the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia did not make these decisions, nor did they invest legal medicines, considering them to be correct and legal. All the properties that were subject to these court disputes took place on 16 October 1990. as the date of entry of the Law on the Forests and on 24 July '91. the year as the date of the Agricultural Land Act was within the limits of the construction area of those units of local self-government which, by part of these properties as owners under their programme, had been legally envisaged. In earlier property disputes on land that were also located within the construction area, even the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in its decisions of 4 November 2008 and from 26 January 2011 stood aside from the municipalities and cities which clearly expressed their position in those decisions that the Republic of Croatia would have to be the sole owner of those properties that took place on 24 July '91. the years were located outside the construction area. Unfortunately, in the past few years, the courts have been changing the established case law in the Republic of Croatia and are now accepting its claims to the municipalities and cities, through these judicial decisions, are being taken away from property that has already been acquired. Most of the time, this is about land that is neither forest nor agricultural land in nature. Since municipalities and cities with part of their real estate were available in terms of sales, the funds they received used for their development are now being sued by the state to pay all these incomes to the state. This change in long-term court practice and this interpretation of the provisions of the Law on Forests and the Law on Agricultural Land has led to catastrophic consequences and is beginning to lead to financial breakdowns and municipalities and cities. This is not about the mere expression of dissatisfaction by municipalities and cities due to the loss of property in court proceedings, it is about the severe consequences and the great legal uncertainty that would undermine the trust of... investors, municipalities and cities, the imposition of mandatory legal requirements for the payment of often million amounts that municipalities and cities have received by making available real estate legally available, and whose payment would now lead to their financial collapse. Further development of municipalities and cities that will be disabled as units of local self-government remain literally without all the land they own. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this inexplicable situation in which municipalities and cities have found themselves deserves our special attention and we need to ask ourselves what this is all about. I ask you all to be informed whether there are also problems in your areas from which you are coming, and especially from your colleagues and colleagues from Dalmatia, and I ask you to do so because, otherwise, you will support and knowingly compromise the existence of municipalities and cities, in the opposite of inaction or in the silent support of the legal position. That's why this situation deserves our full attention, deserves discussion in front of the committees, but also at the plenary session of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174858	Thank you. Mr Davor Vlaovic holds the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174860	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. We should say good afternoon to Croatia. What kind of Croatia is this? What kind of Croatia where members of the Croatian Army ride helicopters, ammunition and weapons? What is Croatia in which Croatian police falsify and issue fake passports to criminal groups? What is Croatia where the employer gives the whistler the one who pointed to the crime of firing and doesn't pay his salary? What is Croatia where nurses and technical staff strike? What is this Croatia where children don't go to schools? And what kind of Croatia does the government not pay workers in? It's unfortunate that this is all I've listed, but you have it on all the portals, that's what the Croatian public thinks about our Croatia. And then let's say good day Croatia, where you are Croatia. Is Croatia here only in Zagreb on Mark's Square or is Croatia in County and Gunja and Slavonski Brod and in Glina and Konavla? If Croatia were supposed to be, but according to the relations that the government and resolution ministers treat these parts of Croatia and rural parts,... areas where they find it difficult to live from where they move from, they would say there would be no worry about being alive there. Oh, well, it used to be food, there were cows and ducats and gold and letters and pigs, and now it's getting smaller. Why? So precisely because of the relations of both this government and the previous governments towards these areas because what else now to tell the workers who are here today strike in front of the county for the workers of Đuro Đakovic group. And they and the unions warned, and we from the opposition, that it was not good three years ago that this company and this group were removed from the list of companies of special interest for the Republic of Croatia, that it was not good that there was no capitalisation, that the government representative had not come to the assembly because he did not know the government's position, that the capitalisation had failed, that it was not good to issue guarantees for the shipbuilding and Djuru Djakovic and that he did not care about how the money was spent, that the money was spent and that a 4.5 billion guarantee for the shipyards had to be paid, and 95 billion guarantees for Djuru Djakovic's group would have to be paid tomorrow. And it's not enough that now just for society's administration to resign, it should have been long before opposition politicians and trade unions and workers warned about it. As early as the 7th month, the union and workers warned the government that the Zagreb Bank had given up financial monitoring of the group. Nothing happened until the workers went on strike and then there's six million kunas, gross wages are paid. What's next? There's no answer. Yesterday they were in front of the Ministry of Economy, the minister has no answer. Today they were in front of the county asking the opposition to be a thematic debate in a County Assembly of Brod-Posavina County, ruling it refused and the opposition left with the workers because they simply no longer believe the ruling one. Well, it's not enough just here yesterday, just a representative of these ruling ranks, for the sake of camels, to question the minister when there will be salaries for the workers of Đura Djakovic. There's no answer. The minister was supposed to be in Slavonski Brod tonight to bring answers to that, delayed his arrival until Monday, and that says enough that they have no solutions or do not care about 600 employees. And you know what the workers in front of the county building say today? Most of them were defenders who now work in special vehicles, over 600 of them. They say we were needed when Croatia was created, when Croatia was to be defended, and now you don't need us anymore. So are you asking her to stand up and go destroy this government? Is that what you're looking for? They're ready for it because they're sneezed because they're disappointed because now they're going to buy gifts for St. To his children? With what? I told the Minister of Finance in my replica today, so be St. Nikola, promise them that 3 million kunas, split them five thousand kunas for Christmas, settle their salaries, solve the long-term functioning of this society. You have refused an amendment to the 200 million kuna for the recapitalisation of this Guys, why? [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Why There for Croatia Airlines And for others and not for Djuru Djakovic? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] That's what the Slavons ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174861	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174862	The fourth is a respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174863	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, in recent days we have been on strike by teachers, our attention has been rounding up and rounding up and insinuating the position of Djura Djakovic's special vehicles of state-owned companies. Workers are on the street because they have not received the salary and while the prime minister boasts that the Republic of Croatia is on the path of economic recovery and that wages are growing despite such good indicators as the prime minister tells us, it is still clear that workers for the work done may not receive earned wages. Despite the numerous legal provisions that workers should protect in the event of non-payment of salaries for which I fought as minister in 2014, workers in the Republic of Croatia still cannot exercise their constitutional right to pay. According to the tax administration this year, from November 2841, the employer does not pay salaries to his workers, which means that Đura Djakovic's fate is shared by 8734 more people who are silent and waiting for their salary. According to labour inspection data in August, as many as 1860 workers worked this year, and did not receive salaries, and this was a wave in the sector of construction, catering and trade. All year round, they listened to the wheezing of employers that they lack workers who are already imported from Nepal, but despite the lack of workers, a large number of employers still do not pay their workers a minimum wage, and of course they do not contribute to pension and health insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Republic of Croatia is considered to be a democratic country, it should not be tolerated to pay indemnity because wage default is a violation of every worker's dignity. The prime minister and his ministers were called and obliged to ensure that state-owned companies respect fundamental rights, and the right to pay for the work done is definitely one of them. If the state, through its competent ministers, is unable to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of workers in state-owned companies, we cannot expect such a state to be able to preserve and protect workers' rights with other employers, but apparently the prime minister does not mind violating fundamental labour and social rights in state-owned companies, and he is not bothered by the social injustices that are the consequences of this government's inaction. Djuro Djakovic is not only an example of employers' concerns for his companies, for his employees, but rather an example of the company destroying the Republic of Croatia and Croatian workers. Gentlemen, the Republic of Croatia is collapsing in front of its eyes, until HDZ and its ministers obviously fail in the business of which they are responsible. I have already repeated several times that the Republic of Croatia needs a pay policy, needs a clear wage policy, as many things HDZ has brought down and Andrej Plenkovic in the Republic of Croatia have destroyed the wage system. Indemnity of salaries, an unfair minimum wage system, pay inequality and women and men, the untaxable amount and Minister Maric are just some of the issues that show that meaningful wage policies in the Republic of Croatia do not exist. What appeared as a major measure of tax discharge is now becoming a problem. These untaxable 5.00 kunas are becoming a problem because a number of employers used it as a return of money from their gray zone and it allowed employers not to raise salaries to workers, but to give them cash. More and more workers are being contracted instead of contracted gross wages. In recent days, companies have been boasting about good results and paying bonuses to workers, but these payments go once, as a wage stimulation ranging from 200 to 400,00 kn. It's all nice and wonderful that if you're on sick leave or if you're fostering a family member, then you don't have the right to a bonus, if you go to a thyroid surgery like one of the workers had to go because she had thyroid cancer, the employer didn't pay her a bonus, and so that 5.00 kn that advertised as a 13th salary became something that employers completely threw out and still the workers stayed on the wind. The bonus that workers receive is not part of the salary, does not retire, and that is another thing that Minister Maric did not count on when he went with this measure. That's why I'm calling on the government to deal with the problem urgently. The boat because holidays are coming and to solve this problem 5000 kuna which is definitely not something that workers deserve in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174864	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174865	The next club of representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174866	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This way, I will take the opportunity to announce a bill that will first of all be sent to the Government or the Ministry of Culture, it is about the proposal to amend the Law on Electronic Media, something that I was talking about here a good part of the time where I was informed that it might be in the making of that very amendment to that law. I will announce this through a proposal which I hope will be included, if it is not included, then I will initiate the amendments and additions of the same law myself. In fact, something that might seem like this on the first hand of the banal, let's say the smallest problem of all of us today and in general in the state of the sea, but human something like that every day that we especially our citizens face with this is the fact that probably when you've all seen certain news, the programs you've had the impression that when you've had a break to the advertising block, up to the opening page, you've stepped up the receiver, and then you're better off making noises in the house, noises and you don't know what it is like and going through commercials, the program starts to hear nothing. So I'm saying this may sound banal, but it's something that our citizens are meeting. In fact, we haven't defined and we don't have a definition that in the Republic of Croatia it's not forbidden that the advertising program is louder than the rest of it, or that announcement checkout list, you know when the Dnevnik goes and dddddum goes along with someone so the neighbors hear what you're listening to or what you're looking at. That's not defined. The European Commission has left it to its Member States to regulate, in particular, some Member States already have Britain and, say, Italy. It states strictly that ads must not be louder than other content within the programme. We can tell that there may be a deviation of something small, but it shouldn't really be such a small change, one sentence, but I believe that many of our fellow citizens will recognize it when I now draw attention to them that they really had such a situation at home that at some point something loud, some advertising, some yingle and then the program starts and it doesn't get heard again, strengthen to hear what people are saying or what's going on. And then, of course, noise, halabuca, etc. I think there's a competition that gives priority to advertisers over the program itself because they get more expression at least in that part of the subconscious that suddenly it's something louder that's happening on TV now or maybe I've been doing something else all of a sudden someone's turned up TV and now I turn my attention more. Of course it is possible now, I can understand it in this market game to make revenue and as much attention to advertisers as possible, but this must not be done at the expense of the consumer rights of our citizens. And there would be no change to the Consumers Act, but precisely the Law on Electronic Media, which should actually have the ultimate objective of protecting consumers and regulating the advertising sector. I think that even through the Council for Electronic Media that it can be monitored but even watched, but even going so far that today in technology you have TV receivers that are self-regulating, so someone has already recognized it, someone has already seen it as a problem, saw as one let's say the advantage that certain advertisers achieve by drawing attention to one let's say the unauthorized way and even have some more modern TV receivers who automatically no matter what the Imput of Audi, they bring it down to what you've given. However, we are far from the purchasing power of our citizens that everyone can afford it and I think that this is one topic that such a light topic would be but one topic that we should certainly make to avoid these various misunderstandings, noises, noises in households and only facilitate the monitoring of these programmes to our citizens. And I believe that the same thing can be done for radio programs that are there is the same possibility that is not regulated where something in one level within one segment programme should not be some major deviations. So I say this way I announce that I will submit these amendments and that amendment to the ministry, of course, wait for the answer, if not then I will refer this amendment to the law myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174867	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174869	Thank you, dear Vice President. This way I want to take the opportunity to announce the initiative again legally. I will only briefly refer to the issue of immunity, namely, I have a personal position that the reasons why an immunity procedure is covered are purely legal, thus interrupting the limitation period. And at the moment the representative loses the immunity of the person who submitted the proposal can continue to sue him, de facto that immunity and then only protects you while you're an agent, so he's not exactly as universal and he's not defending freedom of speech as universally as it seems, and of course, in all the other demands so far for removing immunity the same and we're here... So he's practically reduced to self-deposit of a slander suit that's still on the other side of the crime and always needs to find a good distinction between freedom of speech and responsibility for the spoken word that we all need to be aware of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After yesterday's announcements Amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media where I wanted to point to problems and the need to protect consumers when viewing certain programmes where the disproportionateness of the programme is in terms of the very emissions and programmes and advertising or those breaks, a break where they are deliberately strengthened. Furthermore, to remind you further, I do not know which way to the very part of the employment in the state service, the public administration, the need for a single rank and the employment system. This way I would like to announce and propose to the Ministry of Energy, amendments to the Gas Market Act. Unfortunately, little, we are also a little aware in the paper of deaths by poisoning carbon monoxide, and I believe that this state must take responsibility for itself and impose in fact certain obligations on the supplier and gas distributors. So above all, the law itself states in the first article that these laws regulate rules and measures for safe and reliable production, transport, storage, terminal management, etc., distribution, supply site management, etc. So one of our responsibilities is to protect the citizens and we can prescribe the obligation of suppliers and distributors in equal proportion. To citizens who use gas boilers to deliver that carbon monoxide detector. Countless to say, we remember the summer and lost lives on board, etc., wherever we have such a spent countless deaths happened and we simply have to take care of it as a state. This amount would not be too large for the supplier and distributor, but the result itself would be immeasurable even if it saves only one life he is worth it all. So there are also Articles 50, 63, 17, so the duties of the gas operator, the duty of the gas supplier. Those where the measurements can determine that obligation in the transitional provisions, give a certain time limit for that obligation to be fulfilled and for that basic apparatus to be delivered to anyone who pays for the supply, who pays for the distribution fee, which are all citizens, in their accounts they have those items, that they also have that level of security guaranteed to them in the distribution and supply of natural gas. That's what's important for citizens, that's what's our job, to think about the well-being of our citizens, and not, of course, stressing again, not on the burden of citizens, but on the burden of those who earn from it. Because at the end of the line, security must be above all. There are other items where, for example, suppliers themselves are responsible under this law for incorrect installations that they de facto have neither insight nor can enter anyone's house and check their installations to connect a stove or something like that. It's already in the law and it's okay, although as far as I know, it doesn't apply, but legally it exists. I don't know how to determine responsibility. And this is something that can really be that basic model, so sound reporting, if a small amount of carbon monoxide is detected, saves and one life we've done a lot of, and that's our obligation to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174870	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude today's session with my colleagues and colleagues. We'll get back to work next Wednesday at 9.30. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend. The session was interrupted at 14,24 hours. The next club of representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174872	Thank you, dear Vice President. I want to look back at something that may be going into the sphere believe it or not, but today we read the news that the opposition party, therefore, is the club of representatives here in the SDP Assembly, has collected signatures to question the launch of trust to the Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak. And now they say that one of the reasons on the basis of her statements is that the education system, primary school and high school especially in a blockade if people are even on a general strike because we probably have general strikes where everything works as usual because normal kids go to school even though these teachers strike and don't work. And they also mentioned some statements, so we're not talking about work here, the results, which I will mention, of course, but we're talking about a strange situation in which, on the one hand, some opposition parties also joined where they also said that responsibility is a certain lack of activity or not a struggle for teachers... Whatever you call it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then we have one of these in the cults situation where we hear all the time that some right wing of HDZ is against the minister so now he's joining the SDP with his lead with his president and then we don't know what to think except that we're absolutely right. Because when they get together like that, you're obviously doing a good job. Others recognize the work, praises come from the EU Commission, two, two, two years in a row, two years in a row, and make sure that the EU Commission has said something bad about this sector so that everyone can quote it from this pay phone today, but when we talk about thank you, then I guess that doesn't matter. What the minister herself said, responsibility, result and work, and in the end, she is accused of being sided with the union, and on the other hand she is accused of not doing it because she probably didn't stop enough. And the result of all, these general blockades are that the reform continues, a historic reform, that teachers will practically have 1,000 kunas of higher salary. It is this epilogue of all that we have and that we continue to work and that those who really do and do something in Croatia today, one of the major reforms, one of the most important reforms, by the way of the public administration and the justice that we need, of course, would be good if they were still paid for it, without talking about some injustice. And its responsibility, if we watch the fight against fake diplomas, the introduction of mandatory information, the introduction into classrooms, Croatia's entry into CERN, means everything in 2 years. A billion European funds, so we're talking about vocational schools, introducing dual education, a billion funds to improve vocational schools, equipping all schools in millions, so far in hundreds of thousands of kunas have been allocated to library buildings, 43 million kuna is now for the purchase of a booklet, 42.7. €200 million from EU funds in general for the implementation of educational reform. I mean, the list goes on and on. Science centres of excellence, 373 million kuna, all from the EU fund. A total of 2.5 billion kuna. But it's obviously not enough, the results aren't important, it's an impression, it's important to play politics. It's important to position how someone will outwit who, ladies and gentlemen, is not taking us anywhere, and that's why we're here and why certain reforms haven't been done when they might have been and they could have done them, and obviously they haven't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174873	The next club of representatives will be the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u174874	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I am extremely and personally glad that, according to this conclusion this year, about 42,000 citizens who were first entitled to retirement here by the end of October, there are 1166 people who have retired as participants of the second pillar, so to speak. A two-stage pension. We all know what that second pillar is, who had to, what years it was supposed to go in, who had the right choice. And what I'm saying is I'm personally glad that over 80% of those who opted for a two-stage pension have decided to make a one-time payment of 15% of the amount saved in the second pillar. That 15% for which I am personally very, very happy and satisfied is something that I have proposed countless times and something that the Minister and Ministry then accepted as a possibility, legally incorporated and today is reality and reality. In fact, 944 users once withdrew 37.2 million kunas of their savings. On average, 40 grand each. 37 million kunas entered the economy this year, created consumption, people originally took that money as one of their own rewards for all their work, effort, internship, as an severance that would take place in the golden age of their lives. Do you close the loan, do you secure anything, some trip, some help to the kids, whatever. Because in nature these money is and are and represent the individualized, capitalized savings. Maybe I'm a little sorry that they didn't originally accept the proposal that went to 30% but we met at 15 and it's absolutely nice and now here on the last day of the session this year, in this session this data makes me extremely happy to show that when someone has a good idea, when they have good partners and partners that they can really do something better for our citizens and leave something for themselves as a result of work and effort in this House. What our second proposal was and all of us were, in fact, the only two proposals were and survived the referendum, so it wasn't decided, and the basic part of why you went into retirement reform was that, how to correct the injustice among those who had the right to supplement, who went out of one-stop pension and those from the other, from both pillars had no. These 27% additions are entitled to transfer everything to one pillar and receive a higher pension if they are calculated or will remain in the two-stage and have only that supplement to that amount from the first pillar. This has also been brought to life, the injustice has been corrected, and it absolutely shows that one of the two good proposals and the good things that we have advocated and that we have succeeded in incorporating in the amendments to the law at that time. What's extremely important is that the right to withdraw these 15% has some limitations, so it can't be used to go under some minimum guaranteed pension to have someone withdraw funds and then the state has to make up for it, so it can't be worth it for all but what I think is extremely good that it's just coming for all those generations, generations that are going to go for a pension of 5, 10 years, 20 years, that means it won't be an average of 40. I expect that, given that this is being paid since 2002 and those who entered the labour market in the late 1990s or early 2000s, they will go into retirement for 20 years, it will certainly be a double and double the amount because those who have now taken a pension from both pillars have an average retirement rate of 5 thousand kuna of average pensions, and for an early 3 thousand 800 kuna, and when they are paid, they still get 15%, i.e. 830 pensions from the second pillar. So the system is absolutely sustainable. And I also thank the then representatives of the Government and Mr Pavic, Minister Pavic and Aladrovic, the current ministers who accepted this proposal, also incorporated for the addition, especially for this possibility of withdrawing these funds and nothing but continuing to do so and thank you all who supported it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175306	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, I welcome you all. Today we have two sets of laws, the first one concerning tax reform, the second one concerning criminal law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and I will propose immediately at the beginning of a united debate in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to conduct a united debate on the following 9 points are: 1. Final proposal for the Amendments and Supplements Laws on Tax value added, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 780, 2. Final proposal for amendments to the law and amendments to the law on income tax, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 781, 3. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of Taxes, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 782, 4. Final proposal for amending and supplementing excise laws, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 783, 5. Final proposal for the Amendments and Supplements Act on Income Tax, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 784, 6. Final proposal for amending and supplementing the general tax code, second reading, P.Z. No. 785, 7. FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT LAW AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE FISCALISATION LAW IN FORGET, OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 786, 8. FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND APPLICATION OF THE LAW ON SPECIAL VEHICLES, OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 787, 9. Final proposal for an amending and supplementing the law on special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, second reading, P.Z. No. 788. Are we in agreement that the debate on these nine laws is being conducted united? Thank you. So then we move on to the first set of laws, as I mentioned, it's about nine laws. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. So I would now ask on behalf of the promoter that Minister of Finance, Deputy Prime Minister Zdravko Maric, explain these drafts of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175307	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives and Representatives. As a few days ago, the debate was constructive, good, argumentated in many ways now and we continue in the context of a second reading with a proposal for final laws, tax laws, nine of them in total, as you heard in the 4th round of tax reform. Here is just as an introduction to me in the presentation, and also in some way debate and your replica, or after the debate within clubs and individually. So, this whole set of laws such as practice and over the past years has passed its procedure formal in the sense that a presentation was published on the website of the Ministry of Finance on 26 July 2019, then a press conference was held when the basic guidelines and ideas of this new 4th wave of tax changes were presented. After that, a consultation was also made on the previous assessment forms for the package of laws, and from 30 August after the agreement was made between the ministries from 17 September to 16 October there was also a public consultation. A total of 382 comments were received at the public consultation, the majority or large majority of them on the part of income tax and part of value added tax, and one part concerning the General Tax Law, I will explain, of course, the very details of each of these segments. As far as certain laws are concerned, I'll start with the Value Added Tax Act. The most important change in relation to existing legislation is the retention of the general rate of value added tax of 25%. There is a total effect of this measure, when some other measures have been taken into account, in the meantime, in terms of the expansion of the reduced rate of 13% to some other products as well as 5%, but the effect is somewhere around a billion and 800 million kuna. This final proposal, as was the case in the first reading, extends the scope of the 13% rate to prepare and serve meals and sweets in and outside the catering facilities. I've elaborated, I've also explained in my first reading, and I'm going to say this time, so with this specification and the precision of preparation and service and everything that's written in the law itself, we can actually simplify so there's no more difference than whether you came to some catering facility and consumed there or, let's just say, take the food and bring it out. Catering also, delivery therefore all in a kind of horizontal approach equally that we do not have to have certain types of problems as it may have ever been when that limit was not clearly withdrawn, although we must always be aware whenever we hit and enter a reduced rate of value added tax there is always another additional challenge for tax authorities, tax administration, but also taxpayers distinction between what is and what is not. In addition, given the changes in the profit tax that I will elaborate and then in value added tax, this threshold of 7.5 million kuna is also linked to the fact that VAT accounting or VAT determination as a possibility is based on the charges charged. There are also certain parts concerning compliance with EU directives, which are also in many other segments as well as in tax dynamics and very often change. As far as profit tax is concerned, a new threshold of 7.5 million kuna per year is introduced not more than 3 million kuna, so that way we come into a situation according to our calculations and databases available in the Tax Administration, 93% of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia will pay a 12% profit tax rate. So far, with that measure from the first round and the first wave of tax discharge and tax reform, that was 85%. So we can say 9 out of 10 entrepreneurs with the fact that, of course, we must be aware of the fact that these remaining 7 still participate in the total volume of profit tax and the highest participation, and among other things there are financial institutions, there are telecoms, there are INEs, HEPs and similar large Croatian companies. Also, as regards the administrative dispensation of a natural person who performs an independent activity, therefore craftsmen, it is for this harmonisation, you know that we have introduced the possibility that they and I would say one measure that is well accepted among these taxpayers of profit tax, that they may be burdensome between the way in which the profit tax is calculated, between the accounting principle and the monetary principle. In translation it means that if a small taxpayer delivered the goods, but did not collect this invoice and the bills he had issued, at the same time he was making a commitment among other things, here I said earlier in the value added tax here we are talking about the profit tax and now we are giving him the opportunity, that possibility for days and before he can actually be burdened and that his tax bill on profits is done exclusively by monetary principle. A certain number of entrepreneurs have already started to apply it, whether this figure is higher or lower than some of our expectations, that is the question I would say because as far as the situation figures are concerned at 31.10, 1.183 taxpayers of profit tax decided on this method of accounting. So that's what I'd say shouldn't characterise either good, bad number or news. So again, I repeat it as a possibility of a day, and here I'm just presenting the figure as a fact of how far the entrepreneurs have done it, or the taxpayer of the profit tax, and if we see them as being 1,183, that means that this measure is, after all, in the case of these entrepreneurs themselves. As far as income tax is concerned, there are a few more changes and these changes are, I will start with the first one that may have had in this public consultation in the first wave, in the first step and most echoes and most comments. I think that through some public, public presentations, and through the parliamentary debate, we have further explained that measure, which is good, and then, among other things, we have brought it closer to the people we need. Not only to the young people to whom it applies, but also to all taxpayers to understand in some way the purpose and purpose of this measure, which I have already told several times that exclusively and purely closely viewed from the tax perspective is not a perfect measure, but at the same time it has its own clear message on the one hand economically, socially, but primarily demographically. Thus, for young people up to 25 years, the tax liability is reduced by 100% and for young people between 26 and 30 years of age by 50%. By being very clear, therefore, it is not related to the date of birth but to the year of birth, which says in translation that when we look at it next year, assuming that after today's debate and discussions on amendments, we will vote this law that should enter into force in 1.1 next year, so all those born in 1995 and later fall into this first category, all born in 1990 to '94. years fall into this second category. And so year after year, that average, of course, is one year away, logically this is what it is, but again, it's important that it's related to the year, not the date. Also, it is proposed to increase the basic personal deduction from 3,800 to 4,000, which in some ways is rounding the path that started in the first round of tax changes when we first went to equalise 4 different categories of taxpayers, but in fact from those 2,600 how original it was for most taxpayers now, in fact, all the total is 4,000 in terms of basic personal deduction. Now, there would also mention one important thing, and it concerns untaxable receipts. You know well that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the legislation, or more specifically the Minister of Finance, according to the Income Tax Act, has the Income Tax Regulation in place. This Income Tax Regulation defines between other matters and heights or types of non-taxable receipts considered to be non-taxable benefits under the law, therefore they are not subject to taxation. Last year we first set out to expand that coverage by increasing or introducing, but also by increasing the total amount, so another 5,000 kuna something we called for success at work, bonuses or whatever they call it, mainly to allow entrepreneurs and employers to reward their employees in the way they will already call it, but to be of course this I would say in terms of the wider circle and coverage. The data suggests that 1,200, a billion 255 million kuna for 473,869 employees were paid only in December last year when the measure came into effect. Then, on 1.9 this year, an additional amendment to the rules where, with the two existing measures already in place in the system, some new ones are introduced, which is an additional extension of the untaxed food and accommodation benefits, by making a certain difference between whether or not they are paid at a rate of 5,000 without any evidence in the sense that there must be any substantiation to the employer, either to the tax administration or to the credible documentation for a diet of up to 12,000 kuna per year, and for accommodation that there are, of course, different prices of accommodation from the city to the city under certain other conditions. It has also expanded the possibility that, if an entrepreneur or employer pays or pays a kindergarten for his employee's child, that the cost in terms of monthly price settlement, let's say, kindergarten can and is treated as an untaxable reception. With this legislative proposal, the final proposal also opens up the possibility of extending once again what we have already announced, which is that additional and additional health insurance, which also, a certain number of entrepreneurs and employers pay their employees, is also treated as a non-taxable receipt, but first we need to change the law because this specific provision is part of the legislation, in order to change it by regulation, however, there is one more thing, and this is about rewarding and compensation to students during practical work and teaching to the prescribed amount, as well as during their dual education to the prescribed amount. With this measure being parallel to another measure, because now if we're going to read a round story in terms of income tax, as in some previous waves we've rewarded and valued excellence in terms of scholarship treatments, now, among other things, the treatment of effort, efforts and work in a particular case. However, what is most important for parents such as, if they have, of course, children as their abstention members, as was the case with scholarships, as well as here, these rewards and benefits for practical teaching and dual education, etc. will not enter that censorship, so there will be no situation for a parent to lose tax relief because his child is excellent or diligent so parallel with his learning and works and then if he crosses a certain threshold to lose it as a tax relief. So this is how we prevent or evenize it, and that is, I would say something that should also be looked at in the context, I would say family policies. What is important, too, is to say the measure which was the subject of the debate of the Assembly, I remember also in 2016. The conditions and conditions have been created to change and to change the tax on income, i.e. one of its specific segments, that is, income from renting, acceptable owners of the pauschalists. Therefore, the measure is now more clearly defined as the characteristics of non-permanent work. A topic which also in that public debate had a significant number of comments where clear appeals came from specific segments and the Croatian economy sector to make it more specific to make it a non-permanent work in order to make it more clear that there is a limit and a difference between what someone thinks is a non-permanent work, i.e., with a flat-rate craft and similar or some other forms where it comes from, I would say, to a certain difference in treatment, and then normally has its own repercussions to tax effects, which, for some entrepreneurs who do not want to enter, creates pressure from unfair competition. This is where it's fixed. This concerns the General Tax Law, which I have now stated, is more detailed, not only in income tax but specifically in tax, or in the General Tax Law, but also in all these criteria will be clearly defined in sublaws that will follow, but in any case, the principle of essence above the form is something which is also on the trail of European practice and I would say the practice that is seen among OECD countries in a way that is appropriate to define certain things in tax legislation and to reduce the possibility of tax ejaculation, aggressive tax planning and everything that we have seen, but also many other countries in their tax laws. As regards fiscalisation, since 1 January 2021, the fiscalisation of machines has been introduced, in these concrete changes, and so on is introduced. QR code. This measure is something that, I would say a standard or normal sequence as a result of a major project and a process that has been brought to life in Croatia, but, of course, on the trail and all of those experiences that we have from year to year and which the tax authorities are following, and ultimately are something that requires attention and activity in order, again, to work mainly in that part of the possible elements or aspects of tax ejaculation, and to reduce that to the least possible extent possible. As for the specific tax on motor vehicles, we have an amendment here that says that the amendments to the provisions that require the exemption from the payment of the administrative fee on the acquisition of used motor vehicles. I would remind you that this measure was in previous circles and that this measure was also quite well accepted in, among taxpayers and citizens, because it meant 50% on average a reduction in the average until then on the transfer of used motor vehicles, but at the same time, since the norm was not fully defined, we saw certain forms of avoidance of payment of administrative fees by transfer between related persons. Now, with this precision, we're going to reduce that part, or I can even say we're going to minimize it, or eliminate it. Also, as regards administrative cooperation in the field of tax, mostly or almost entirely, we are talking about compliance with EU legislation. In the excise system, a excise system such as the practice in previous circles on, I would say, the principle of restoring the possibility of returning part of the excise duty to a minimum attributed to road transport of any goods, any passengers, is now the same as for rail transmission, with the diesel part being included in the same principle as the road, however, in the stories of electricity in the rail transport of goods and services, there is a full exemption from paying the excise duty, which includes among other things also tramway transfer. Also, in a special tax on non-alcoholic beverages and coffee, a change is proposed in the way of taxing non-alcoholic beverages, therefore, the special tax on non-alcoholic beverages is 25 years old, I think already, since 94 years old and the amount has not changed, it is fixed 40 kuna per 100 liters of non-alcoholic drink. So the proposal is that not only this fixed part, we will discuss the figures later, not only this fixed part in legislation or tax treatment, but also one variable part that will depend on the content of sugar, aunty urine and methylxin for energy drinks that are in that composition. In the past few days, we have conducted several rounds of talks with representatives of non-alcoholic drink producers, so this legislative proposal defines the framework, the way and the principle of taxation, after the law enters into force, the sublegal act, the government's regulation, as is the case today's practice, for example in the section of taxation of tobacco and tobacco processing, the Government makes its decisions subject to the amounts, now in this particular case, the fixed or variable part, as well as these classes. So I repeat, we still have open communication with representatives of non-alcoholic liquor producers, which is the longest physical frontier with non-EU countries, as well as other elements we take into account, because we cannot ignore the fact and our environment as well as with tobacco and tobacco processing, but at the same time we believe that we are giving an additional step in this way in terms of modernising the way of taxing this specific part, but also since colleagues from the HZZ and the Ministry of Health are involved, they have certain broader elements and contexts of the tax story itself. As for the changes to the first reading, so I would now just briefly sum up if I repeat once again it was in certain segments a very high quality and reasoned debate, but compared to the first reading with the nomotechnical changes in individual committees and your proposals, we have several changes in certain segments, so for example the value added tax is also prescribed to apply a reduced rate of 13% and to phonograms, so the rights of phonograms. As regards the profit tax, it is prescribed that payment of the tax after deduction applies not only when the payer is a foreign person but also an foreign person. One example is an increasing and larger number of foreign productions that come to the Republic of Croatia to record different types of this in the segment of creative industries, let's say that there are different types of films or series or so on, so that we have one stimulating way to make the Republic of Croatia even more competitive in attracting these types of activities, because we know that it's not just a direct effect for a particular segment of creative industries but it has some kind of an indirect effect on consumption, tax revenues and in general on the economy. As regards income tax, along with the already mentioned fact that I explained this, the principle of volunteering for tax obligations in INO receipts for which the tax authority learns from the time-out, as well as some other minor changes, and I would say, are the real situations with which we know where we encourage taxpayers who have achieved and have achieved certain types of INO benefits to report it, of course. Tax administration gives one, I would say or tax authorities give one additional hand of cooperation in a way that stimulates them on this and that in some kind of delay, in terms of some time-out, they will not charge interest, but in any case, of course, the idea is to encourage that kind of application, however, at the same time the tax administration will continue with its additional and controls and all the activities it does anyway. When all this comes together and just one more apology before I sum up, it's a very important thing that I forgot to mention to me in untaxable receipts. The important thing is that according to numerous conferences, round tables and similar things that we introduced during and after public consultation, therefore and in some way suggestive, it seems to me, and several of you as parliamentary representatives, but also mainly entrepreneurs and accounting associations, through the system of e-tax which perhaps, here is also my little mistake, not a little bit, but a mistake, as I don't mention it enough, enough, to a sufficient extent and quantity, a very large step through all these 4 other circuits of tax charge and that tax reform we have put among others and an emphasis on facilitating this administration and this system of e-taxes that penetrates all more and more into the system and facilitates it even to additional tax bonds and that communication, the most impressive and best-known part of the tax on income and you know that the whole of the tax system with which the tax is now comes into the tax system, and the relevant tax of the tax that the tax is now available to the tax is a significant, and the tax of the tax of the other tax, the tax is now available to the tax of the other tax, and the tax is the tax that the tax is not paid, and the tax, and the tax that the tax is not paid, and the tax of the tax of the tax is not paid, and the tax of the tax, and the tax, and the tax, the tax, and the tax, and the tax is the tax that the tax is not paid, and the tax of the tax, and the tax, and the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax that the tax is not paid, the tax, and the tax, and the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax is the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax, the tax, and the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax, the tax of the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, and the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax of the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax, the tax is the tax is the to avoid any abuses, but in any case a great paperwork is facilitated, we have had several examples where we speak, where employers come to us, hire a few hundred seasonal workers in their scope, for each of them, so that would be a special form, signature, archiving, administration, etc. etc., so all of this is kind of facilitated and will be facilitated through this and the system of e-taxes, or through that kind of communication. When we put all this together, this 4 round of tax discharges, we're talking about discharging on the same principle as so far, so static approach when we look at how much tax bonds of this in the circumstances that we are currently in, of course, taking into account all of these parameters, 2 billion and almost 400 million kuna. When the first three rounds of tax discharge are added, we kind of round up to nine billion kunas. One of the remarks that is also in your replicas and I believe that today will be about us on one side saying that tax is being taxed, which is the fact, but that an increasing and higher amount of tax burden is measured by tax in the share of income from GDP. So that's where we need to be very clear, that's the difference between what we look at from the individual approach each of us as a taxpayer was income tax, or, for example, certain segments of value added tax if someone is also compulsory in profit, contribution, etc., etc., on his personal example he sees that he is taxed. In four circles when all of this is summed up by nine billion. However, it has proved to be a practice of other countries, academic and empirical analysis as well as in the case of Croatia. Every tax discharge has positive effects, mainly in the case of Croatia on economic activity and individual segments whether we talk about consumption, investment, employment, wage and standards growth and not counting further. Such effects, of course, have a positive return effect again on the revenues of the state budget. I like to highlight that first measure that maybe we in the first round tried most to highlight, but she wasn't so much I'd say was recognized in the debate, either reducing the tax rate on profit. So a direct measure, the simplest possible that, in fact, on a calculated profit, you pay no more than 20% but 18%, or small and medium 12%, means discharge. And that first year you had a profit tax increase of over 15% nominal. Our nominal GDP in that year didn't grow anywhere near 15%. And then when you look at these ratios logically that you can conclude that the share of income from income tax or total income in total GDP has increased because tax revenues resulting from tax discharge in the stage of the cycle in which we are located and this is the starting stage. So we have an economic growth of 15 quarters in a row, 15 quarters in a row growing faster than economic activity itself. And another element that we also do not ignore is the fact that through this modernisation and improvement of legislation in many segments, we have made the tax system more transparent, which makes it easier for tax authorities as well as for taxpayers and encourages them to further and, of course, to meet their obligations neatly and, if you want, to further reduce the various forms of tax evasion. Now that's what when we look at a single segment or a whole in a way we can or should say I should say lock and frame. Here I would stand, of course we're ready here, all my colleagues for further comments and discussion. Anyway, here's the thing, and I forgot to say one more segment, and that's that by the day of today's non-taxable receipts, a billion 276 million kunas have been paid on the basis of that measure since last year. An additional 123 million kuna to settle food costs. 16 million kuna related to working relationship in terms of nutrition on the basis of credible documentation. 8 million kuna for accommodation. And we all expect, together, that by the end of the year, we will be able to fix these figures further because as usual, entrepreneurs have some of their own financial plans and budgets. But in any case I think they have clear, clear reasons why to increase their employees' additional income, pay different types because this is what I would say also from the tax aspect someone can say not completely perfect measure and I can agree with that. On the other hand, however, it is evident that it has its positive effects on salaries and generally employees. And I think that... With that in mind, it needs to be stimulated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175308	Comrade Grmoy, here's your break, request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175309	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult on this fourth round of full tax reform. So we had a fourth round of full tax reform and we actually have meaning minimum corrections, of course that can be welcomed but that's not enough. In order to encourage the economy, a much stronger tax discharge is needed, it can only be done by reducing unnecessary costs if we reform public administration. And what do you offer us, Minister Maric, you and this government? You're transferring business from the state administration's office to the county. You'll pay $96 million in severance money so these people can get a job in the county again. Those legions of sorcery. So we advocate, MOST insists on reforming public administration. We've developed an action plan that we've left you in the ministry and secured 880 million kuna. You only used 17 million kunas. You don't implement reforms, you don't remove these unnecessary counties, and then you, that litter of art, and you're chugging the mayors at teachers, teachers and teachers. Today they will tell you no, it is quite obvious because Prime Minister Plenkovic took this situation unrelentingly, he treated the teachers with pride, and now you are in a position to threaten you with a general rebellion and you have not implemented any major reform and you present this to us as some kind of reform. We need reform of the public administration, we need the abolition of the county, we need a reduction of the costs of the state's apparatus, and every state needs doctors, nurses, teachers, cops, military, money to find.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175310	Thank you. It'll be an approved break. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175311	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics Club. Namely, as the minister explained in his argument, the opening argument explained again what we had warned in the previous debate, which warns the clarity that despite tax redundancies in terms of income increases, labour price cuts, our tax bite, so on. The tax bite is growing. The minister explained this by increasing the profit tax, of course, there is a key VAT. And just by giving up the rate, the reduction in the rate by 1% from 25% to 24%, Prime Minister Plenkovic said here in the Parliament that he would give up on that, as a result of a reduction in his salary to the public services by 6.11%). Today we enter the 14th day of non-participation in classrooms or the 34th day of strike. What concerns me, Minister Maric said yesterday that out of 11 trade unions, 7 of them want to sign a basic collective agreement, and 4 of them do not want to, and that it will not be possible for them to sign either. In other words, Minister Maric said yesterday that teachers would be responsible if they do not raise salaries to everyone else in public services. That's how I understood it. Minister Maric, incomes from VAT are growing, teachers strike us, you yourself said that the coefficients, if the coefficients of teachers increase that this will cause dissatisfaction in other services. Don't be afraid, correct those coefficients, I think you're the only man in this country who can return to the classrooms tomorrow. Increase their coefficient by 6%, determine at least some limit around which you won't increase, make it a gross media pay through the base, so make it a coefficient of 1.28, but make something for students to return to classrooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175312	A break will be granted. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175313	I'm looking for a party on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club. Mr. Maric, I must actually commend here your thoroughness, which your presentation or interpretation of this proposal sets the law, but it bothers me that you have failed to excavate with the Prime Minister in this past period that the VAT is beginning to decrease. You pointed out nicely at the end of your presentation, what is crucial is that every VAT reduction encourages public spending, and thus indirectly later we have a higher income in the state budget, which is nice to see in reducing the income tax that happened, so until finally one determined policy happens, I know it may not be your decision, but you should have suggested to the Prime Minister that this should happen. I don't think we're going to have any more economic growth and you know for a fact that VAT consists, or GDP, of public consumption, investment, of the difference between imports and exports and state consumption. With the fact that you won't even have state spending big if you didn't have VAT entry inside means paying VAT, but you won't even have public spending if you don't charge people tax. The second thing that bothers me here is extremely important, unfortunately, you've devoted half an hour to how much you've had, just 30 seconds of demographic politics. I'm always warning you about that, I'll warn you again. Unfortunately, neither with your ministry nor with the new ministry, the Ministry of Demography, there is no sensitivity to the catastrophic demographic situation. I now invite you from this place to lobby, to be in this next period as much as possible more advocates of the demographic recovery of Croatia through your portfolio, and these are finances because for the time being from the Government of Andrej Plenkovic we have not experienced any real resolution measure that would repair the demographic disaster in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175314	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 10 o'clock, 25 minutes. Thank you. 10:11 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.25 HOURS]] Welcome! ... Let's move on to the replicas now, first of all, dear colleague Curai, here you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175316	I thank the Honorable President, respected ministers with your associates, you mentioned this at the end of how and these were first-reading remarks, we're talking about discharge, and income growth, and I think it's best to further explain it to a basic economic postulate when you reduce the price of the product and earn more or you increase your income. Something like that, and perhaps the most classic would be to explain, given that those graphs I last drew didn't exactly bear fruit. What you didn't mention, and what I'm interested in and I believe is a good part of the public about changes. 12. The position of the General Tax Act as regards flat-rate trades and a new way of looking at their business through behaviour control, financial control, the relationship between parties, to define exactly what it means, so that there is no misunderstanding, that there are no wrong interpretations in the public, so did I say there are many times, that absolutely every way of doing business should be respected our entrepreneurs. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175317	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175318	Thank you very much, so this, distinguished representative, this first part here and I have tried to explain again as in the previous, in the first reading of numerous replicas on the subject, so the way that this can be very much presented and the kind of this explanation listed, but ultimately, each individual can see whether today pays more or less taxes than tax reform has come into force and that is, it is the simplest thing to say. As for the characteristics of non-permanent work, so simple, behavior control, financial control, relationship between parties, everything will be further specified. We have looked at the experiences of some other countries, including the United States, as well as some European countries, so we will find out from these experiences some of the best solutions for us and President HS I hope that no, no, I am not violating some provision, but if I may, an amendment of the Committee on Legislatives has arrived to the article. 16 regarding the Value Added Tax Act, we accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175319	Okay, thank you. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175320	Thank you, dear Minister Maric. So, the key thing is and this can be seen according to the data available, the Republic of Croatia in one part, which is perhaps the most important part of the tax revenue of the more developed country in the capital tax and property tax, is not, not far away, you had, I believe a good intention of introducing a tax on real estate, but I am calling you again, think about it, but don't mix it with the communal fee, don't, because you, the message was coming from those poorest, say very clearly and loudly, we'll tax the banks, tax those who are the richest, those who have a lot of property that they earn, that's what you tell Croatian citizens, and then that the tax will start, that the price, to disburse the work, and that the tax burden is directed towards those who have the most, in other words that they then increase salaries in Croatia naturally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175321	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175322	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, that was already the topic of previous circles, in this round we no longer have this debate on property taxation, real estate and the like, but I will take advantage of the opportunity in responding to your replica and teaching what you have said, so and then we have been shot, and we have, very simply, we can look at this as an international comparison, so where the Republic stands by different visions and ways of taxing certain forms, so, as far as income tax and wealth is concerned, the European Commission, the EU, is leading it united, the Republic is somewhere by share, so I don't say good, or bad, clean as a third from below in terms of income and wealth in GDP. Then someone says okay, our income tax is low, rich, because we don't have real estate, real estate tax, we don't tax that much, but by contributions we're at the top, we're not, we're in the middle somewhere, but where we're at the top, not at the top, but really at the top no. 1 according to the share of value added tax revenue in GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175323	Thank you. He's gone, so he's gone, he can't talk, he's a fourth mate, Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175324	Thank you very much. Minister, can you tell, do you have a maybe, and we should have, what's your assessment of the data from our citizens' abroad in 2019? Do I know that there was something wrong with your statistics when I said that 5% in 2018. GDP, so that I don't have to bargain in 2019, has to call people, experts is very important for the taxes of our evicted Croats, because I repeat, it was in 2018. 5%, you kept it quiet when I was saying it, it was just embarrassing for you, but that's also the main cause of emigration and Croatian growth means economic growth, so can you tell you how many estimates, statistical indicators do you have, do you have any, have any balances, how much in 2019 do you estimate that there will be GDP from donations of Croats evicted abroad? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175325	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175326	Thank you, well-respected representative, statistics and problems and hints as well as any other foreign relations, because here we are talking about foreign relations, in this particular case you mention Croats who are both living and working outside the Republic of Croatia and sending transfers back, is under the balance of payments stick, so balance of payments, in particular the current balance of payments account, parts relating to transfers, hence the receipts and that is under CNB's authority. They, as far as I know, in terms of statistics, not only as an institution are independent, but in terms of their statistics, regularly publish data on the balance of payments either to speak at the annual level you ask me as well as some projection period for the years to come, so that's the best source of this information. As for the assessment of how and how this segment is reflected in this tax revenue, as well as some others, we sort of coordinate and fit into that story when we plan the revenue side of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175327	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175328	Thank you, well-respected minister, I would like to refer to the debate on reducing tax discharge and income growth. Normally, logic continues if we have reason to increase that there is an even greater potential for discharge. I would also like to welcome and exactly this amendment to the General Tax Law where you have seen alternative behavior of entrepreneurs, select a model that actually has smaller tax rates, lower tax rates. But what happens here is that, we have one problem, which is the emergence of this form of simple society with limited responsibility that often ends its life during one calendar year, goes a shortened bankruptcy process and it's hard to actually see the collapse that goes there and often conceals certain malversions. And what should be further considered in its proposal, which is to make it easier to enter into some additional activities, that it does not happen to us as it has now been about the smuggling of truffles, which is the former mayor of HSS means additional employee activity. or County, additional activity to smuggle instead of using [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] legal object. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175329	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175330	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, thank you for opening that topic. There are fellow state secretaries and directors and customs and tax administrations, so as tax authorities and key people along with their teams, all this time, of course not only in terms of the legislative frameworks I represent here to all of us and the Croatian public, but even more so in the implementation of the same work and you know for yourself, we have discussed many times in HS how and how tax authorities work, whether in one way or another, but I will kind of paraphras one taxpayer who has said very clearly, Minister, when we address, your role, or the role of tax authorities, is to protect taxpayers in a way that we have equal treatment with all. So, first of all, from the perspective of those who regularly comply with their obligations, that was among other things the intensity of this legislation. All changes resulting, i.e. to facilitate the conditions of business in Croatia, the opening of companies, etc. have good intentions, however, we must watch them if they come up with any possible abuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175331	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175332	On behalf of the Independent Youth List Club, I'm looking for a break...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175333	Can I just ask you, can I just ask you to finish up with the replicas, and after that, that would be okay? What? [[Well, there's a lot of replicas, so...]] All right, come on, suit yourself. [[Intruder: Nothing will change.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175334	No, I'd like to take this moment right now, and I'd like to thank the Minister for the quality of the answer, but I'd like to point out the treatment that we'd be working on inside the club and discuss, so if the Customs Service stops the former mayor from crossing 20 kilos of truffles and goes against him infraction proceedings, which is apparent to have been violated by 2 art. The criminal code, then the question is why aren't you treating everyone the same? We have cases that before that were where that kind of smuggling was just running a criminal procedure where it's 2 art, I think it's an art. The 256th illicit trade and the 264th is, here, don't take my word for it now, I'd have to look at it, but so we have to have equal treatment. It can't happen that we're going in such a way that the payment of a misapplication where the fine was 30 thousand kuna, the confiscation of property, that someone was alimony of a criminal offence. That's exactly what he was, being led against the Republic of Croatia, means once you punish someone by a misdemeanor procedure, then after that, you can't punish him for the crime he committed. We have to have a model that is clear because, if there are already certain circumstances, it can be retained, the goods are taken away, circumstances have been investigated and a final decision has been made whether there has been a violation of the criminal law, in fact, of the Penal Code, and this continues to be followed. This way again we have one political person who's gone bad, so she's just being prosecuted, there's no further responsibility, we can talk about political responsibility but that real criminal responsibility, then we can't send a message and we'll always have that division in society. Let's once let the management of the finance ministry and all the bodies be uniform that then we don't have to look like this, which was a model that was almost covered up, so then the media came up with the information and made it public, but I think it's the most impact on the vaults. which you're managing. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175335	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. We'll continue at 10.48. It's 10:00.37. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.47 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175337	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, when the opposition so ironically tells you that this is the 4 round of complete reforms and when it is the only flaw they have found in the game of words through this, then know that you are on a good path, and that you are in a conversation on the ground with natural, legal persons and with units of local self-government through all three of these circles and this is the fourth round that is expected now by the end of the year, people are positively talking about it because we set it in our program and we have fulfilled it by the end. However, in your presentation, I have not heard that through the amendments and additions of the Tax Act to additional value you have touched simple societies with limited responsibility. There are certain abuses here and in the area of the electoral unit from which I come through the unique societies with limited responsibility. Is there anything you can say about this, or is it about changing and supplementing these laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175338	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175339	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, this subject is less, rather closely related to this one of the previous replicas, so the urgency and intention of the legislator at the time when it enabled and facilitated the conditions of opening and ways and new forms and the modality of companies and their forms of business was certainly good, in a way that I repeat myself again through administratively, generally this discharge and simplification opened and additional possibility. At the same time, however, we, as tax authorities, saw that in certain segments in no way can we generalise or talk very closely about some percentages, but we saw certain possibilities that such a type of this grace, which has its own justification and used it in certain elements that would actually mean something that at OECD level countries are called aggressive tax planning. And that's why we are, among other things, a whole series of measures so far, and now tax authorities and legislation, but also in the way we act. This part started to shrink. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175340	Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175341	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, this story with teachers, teachers, education can't end well for the government. So, you missed it, you didn't react the right way at the beginning, and that story unfortunately for the government won't be good. However, in any case, the public sector will in a certain way, so people in the public sector will get something. He'll get a bigger salary, sooner or later it'll be 300, 400, 500 maybe for someone and 700 kuna. But what concerns me is this measure for people in the private sector. So an increase in personal deduction from 3,800 to 4,000 kuna will lead to a rise in the salaries of people who pay taxes for 50 kuna, 500 kuna is still something you'll agree to but 50 actually It's nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175342	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175343	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I have several times, and in the introduction part you listened to a whole series of measures that are actually aimed at facilitating the tax, non-tax administrative burden of entrepreneurs, in order to open up additional space for them to raise salaries to their employees. We are not their employer as a state, we are the employer of state and public administration employees and we talk directly to them, we negotiate basics, some other material rights, coefficients and additions to some government authority or additions subject to some border collective agreements, etc. Therefore, the state creates preconditions for tax changes and facilitates business conditions, and then, of course, it is up to the employers themselves to recognize it. I just spoke to the measure concerning the untaxable income that is in the tax sense, I will repeat once again from the purely closely viewed tax aspect is not perfect, but at the same time I am here, only last year over a billion kunas, and this year which has been paid extra to their employees. I'm not going into a hypothetical topic at all, would you? Was or wouldn't be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175344	Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175345	Dear Minister, I've been asking the same questions for months on several occasions you've been here in the assembly, and I haven't had an answer once. I'm really asking you to give me a clear answer because I'm really interested, I think I'm interested in the whole public, and I'm going to repeat three of the more questions I've asked you. Why there's a tax return on profit i.e. Why do entrepreneurs have to pay in advance to the state without producing or selling anything? Why is there a limit to donations to educational institutions? And why don't you tax-deal entrepreneurs who want to reinvest their profits and increase the number of jobs? Here I am, please give me logical answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175346	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175347	Thank you very much. Specific questions, I'm going to try really the very short answer to everything that we get. The profit tax I answered the same last time, therefore the system that exists, so that the tax payer can at any time come to the tax administration and request a recalculation of these tax or profit tax advances, at any time in the tax administration. At the same time at the end of the year, or at the beginning of the next calendar year by the end of the 4th month, the calculation and annual calculation shall be carried out and, if it was a subscription and if it was a sub-payment, in order to underline the line. As far as donations are concerned, 2% of total revenues are valid in the legislation when you look at the overall system and we are nowhere near that use, and of course there are appeals from individual entrepreneurs mainly for sports and athletes, sports associations, etc. And we're always ready for dialogue, and if we need to expand that coverage, we're not immune to this at all. The third question, the investment, the uninvested profit, I'll elaborate, we cut the profit tax rate, there'll be opportunities in the next replica I'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175348	My colleague, Glasovac is gone, and my colleague, Djujic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175349	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you have already presented a whole series of measures that would be tax discharge and announce relief and business to entrepreneurs and all that we have heard together. I am now interested in whether this will ultimately happen or whether it is safe now, will you give up perhaps tax discharges if the unions do not accept the Government's proposal? Since yesterday in Dnevnik you announced what you announced and are practically putting pressure on the unions in education that I don't know the discounts because you're going to bring down other employees in the public sector and that they won't be able to raise their salaries. I'm curious now if you could explain that statement of yours to us yesterday. And on the trail of this, are you going to give up your tax discharge tomorrow because you're going to have to give in to the unions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175350	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175351	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the answer is very simple, nothing will change. Of course, it will ultimately depend on you, I think tomorrow, I hope that you too will raise your hand for this tax discharge so that when the vote comes into effect. On the other hand, as far as my statement yesterday is concerned, it's very simple, you can listen to it and you'll hear exactly what the question was and what my answer was. There are no pressures, I will explain it to the media and the Croatian public, and in this way I seek to address teachers, children and parents in a peaceful way. As for meetings with union leaders, I can also talk about it. And I know that you're not going to raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm just going to refer to the previous replica, the profit tax in the first round we talked about, the reinvested profit when the possibility of treatment was introduced. At some point when the complex criteria were very small number of entrepreneurs it was used as such and we decided to take a horizontal approach to all with a general reduction in the total profit tax rate. But in any case, through different other measures, investment activity of entrepreneurs is stimulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175352	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175353	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers with associates. We've already talked about VAT on coverage, and in particular about possible reductions for individual product groups, I mean mainly food products. Unfortunately, VAT revenues are growing, but they are growing on import goods and services, and at least it is a product from the Republic of Croatia because we have a decrease in production and meat and milk and fruits and vegetables and I expected you to go with this measure to further expand the scope of the product to which VAT will be reduced and that it will be competitive in relation to the environment, to be 5 or 7% as it is in France or Germany, why did you give up? And secondly, will this part of the untaxable 5,000 kuna be St. Nikola, promise you'll pay the workers of Đura Djakovic for Christmas 5,000 kuna untaxable and settle their salaries for October? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175354	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175355	Thank you very much. Your Honor. I can't learn a lesson that when I come here when you're present that I have to have a good breakfast first because you always have some appetite for me, now you haven't mentioned it, but we know well that you mention both the cool and all the Slavonic and the ine delicacies. Many times we talked about it, and I think that through these few rounds of tax changes from the very base of agricultural imputations for the production of livestock, through certain products that you know for sure and how we have defined for fresh meat, fresh fish, fruit, vegetables, live cattle, so you can read a lot of it yourself, I would say hearing about the needs of Croatian villages, farmers, cattlemen and all those who work hard and hard. But the problem of why we have a trade in goods and food in the minus is not just part of tax regulations, it's much wider than that. But I am glad and thank you for that and when we encourage and discuss tax laws on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175356	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175357	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister. So we already have a 4th time comprehensive and full tax reform in the Croatian Parliament, but what throws down on this reform or this proposal, I wouldn't call it reform, is that yesterday you blackmailed teachers and teachers with a statement that there will be no first offers of 2+2+2 for all public sector employees unless they accept your offer. That's another one I'd say ha gave this point on and these totally sloppy communications of unworthy teachers and teachers that the government is conducting towards them, the arrogant approach and 35 unfortunately we don't solve the problem. I wonder when you'll solve the problem, when we'll take our children to school? There's no such thing anywhere in Europe, you're in charge of it, go ahead and solve the problem because this doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175358	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175359	Thank you very much. With all due respect to you, counselor, you can easily listen to my statements. The question that I was asked and the answer on several occasions, so I was merely giving the facts the way it was at the meeting. I will explain that there is no problem in the interests of the public and the general citizens, but I have also set you up as parliamentary representatives. And what's more about this problem, we spoke and listed in the current class many times yesterday, among other things, what's done and what's kind of on the table, and it's a very clear message, so no matter what you say in the shadow of tax changes, we have to talk about that too. Of course we need to talk about this subject and it is in everyone's interest and I think that from the beginning we have made it very clear that we should look first and foremost in the interest of teachers and children, or their parents, and that as soon as they return to where they belong, these are school benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175360	Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175361	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The point of tax reform is to relieve the economy and citizens of the tax burden at the same time provide enough money to finance public needs. If not all citizens were happy and satisfied with the financing of their needs, they showed in Ban Jelačić Square the other day, 40, 50,000 gathered to warn about the unfair treatment they have regarding their salaries and their professions. Now, yesterday on that show, you already told them that if they didn't accept the government's proposal that no one would get anything de facto. At the same time, you said you weren't ready to talk about the coefficients yet, so now we're really coming up with what Mrs. Minister Divjak has done nicely to the game of power. When the government will really be ready to talk about the coefficients, is that what needs to be discussed and thus be prepared to solve these citizens' problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175362	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175363	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, I think, of course, we're going to talk about this subject now and then all afternoon and then, you probably had some gatherings together yesterday because I can't believe that no one has listened to the specific statement I've made, so you're drawing these conclusions as you draw but whatever it is, you always have a chance to listen. I've been taking facts from the very meeting that they say if we don't have most, we can't sign an addendum to a basic collective contract, period. Which after that, I said, we'll see. In any case, as far as the distribution of funds and pleasures and dissatisfactions, dialogues are concerned, so I'll remind you, although here you are, you're kind of pushing me in that direction to remind yourself of both your governments and when you were in charge. Ask your colleagues who have been in charge of dialogue with the unions how many meetings they have done with trade unions of different kinds, state, public, within the GSV or whatever topics they have discussed, the coefficients are not the subject of the talks, you know that, you have simply reduced them by decision but we as Government have said and that when the conditions are obtained we are willing to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175364	Thank you. Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175365	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. We're not just talking about a series of changes and additions to tax laws here, we're talking about a series of demographic measures. All governments are full of mouths, however, rarely or almost, so no one is doing anything about it, but nothing at all. In fact, all young people up to 25 years of age will be freed from 100% income tax rate of 30.50%, and also by income they are no longer considered receipts related to textbooks, work notes, education programmes of the unemployed, etc. So a whole series of demographic measures to improve youth status in society. Also, this proposal has produced certain criticisms from mayors, mayors and mayors, but should be clearly and loudly noted 2 years ago, 3, all budgets of local self-government units have seen growth and the government has also imposed compensatory measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175366	Time, time. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175367	Thank you very much. Well, thank you for your comment, Your Honor, and the question or the replica, and that's kind of good, I would say and it's not incomprehensible, and it's kind of a political arena and the general public whenever something good is proposed and suggested and when it's known that it's a good measure, then in some way we're going to try to defuse it one way or another, so we're going to open up the topics of how it's unequal treatment for these or those and at the same time, and at the same time, many have just advocated giving some even more concrete measure, it's not enough of what you've done so far, etc. I said earlier and again, from a tax, narrow tax aspect, this measure for young people only when the tax aspect is viewed, it is not perfect, it has its shortcomings, however, the idea and is to look at a slightly wider context and here in a broader context is not only a tax issue but also a social and economic and mainly demographic issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175368	Thank you, too. And at the end of the day, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175369	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am pleased that in the last few minutes of your opening presentation, you have tried to make a link between the increased revenue side regarding tax revenues and tax exemptions. I think it's a subject that should be talked about more because some things don't happen by accident, economy, state budget, taxes have their own legality and simply all those who, when they pull some things out of the segment, can talk whatever they want, but things have happened because something happened and I'd like to say one more thing here. You have mentioned several times that based on the provisions of the Income Tax Regulation, certain payments that are not taxable, that many employers have used this, I am interested in the future as EUROSTAT will treat and pay for the reason that wages and salary increases are the reference size for payment and the increase in some budget fees. I think that because of many who are very easy to hit on here with the expenditure side of the budget, there is a clear need to say it here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175370	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175371	Thank you very much. So I think that debate is what it takes, I'd say do it all the time and you esteemed MP, you know it very well from your term as Minister of Finance and also as a parliamentary representative. So the first one that you mentioned, this variety of I think the relationship ultimately between certain tax forms of relief is therefore different types of tax expenditures and the income side of the budget and then again closely related to the expenditure side of the budget we opened in the first round. So now that we are looking at the tax system, practically this category of tax expenditure where many analysts, the European Commission, etc. We have identified that Croatia has an average share of these tax expenditures that generates certain distortions, inequalities in the system, we have tried to make them as unpopular as it is and that is why this epithet is reforming these tax changes, and now that you are looking at practically other than reduced VAT rates and other than these exemptions in the income tax system for children and dependent members, practically everything is aligned and we have one horizontal treatment for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175372	Thank you. Does anyone want to take a word for the board? No, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Mr. Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175373	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear ministers. I have to say I expected more, I expected braver moves, why? Tax measures are a tool, an opportunity for you to influence that things, in order to improve the economy in the country, would increase the quality of life in order for the country to get a stopper. That's what tax measures are for, right? And unfortunately, I can't see a brave measure that will solve what's really a problem in the country. If we're going to look at what's really a problem, then we can say that demographic cataclysm is a problem. I don't see that there's anything brave, something strong that will stop this trend. I can also say that much greater efforts should be made to prepare the economy for what everyone warns will come to a potential recession through the reduction of the maze of administration, through much stronger tax redundancies, there is no. We also have expenditures at our level that from 2016 to today we spend 30 billion kunas more taxpayers' money. The fourth thing, so I think that each of us wants Croatia to be a country of knowledge, that we can prepare ourselves, that we can be competitive one day to other EU members or our neighbourhood. I would point out that as a key challenge for Croatia, and for that it should serve tax reform, and this way, don't insult me, this tax office looks like you have a crater, you have a hole in a ship that lets everywhere, and you're afraid of a fence, literally. You want to make a good demographic move, I beg you, I've warned multiple times and I won't stop until someone clearly explains why not? Replace tax exemptions for children with fixed amounts. You will fast a fair system for those who are employed with low wages and you yourself say that they are outside tax scissors and you cannot in any way increase their salary, so you will increase their salary, just for them. They'll get 2 to 3,000 kunas a month, and they won't think about going out with their belly after bread. It's a brave measure, it's the measure that will really bring you effect. I won't talk about what you promised, unfortunately and it's one of the things you promised in 2016, but never mind, it's never too late. I must warn you half a million people in Croatia have left for the past six years. Someone's gonna be a conspiracy theorist so they'll say we're deliberately sending them out. Why? Well, here it is. The same ones that were driven out of action today are paying back into Croatia 18 billion kuna or 5% of GDP, that there are no payments from abroad that their families in Croatia can survive every month we would be in recession. My men. And that I'm going to say Mr. Shucker, you've said phenomenally. You said things happened because someone did something. Yes, you did that, that half a million people left Croatia and in return you get 18 billion kunas that you spend how? Here, tell me, is any population in Croatia more happy after spending 30 billion kunas a year? I don't notice, and I think I'm telling you the truth, I'm not attacking you, I'm trying to open your eyes. The other thing that matters, other than the measures that you're going to save and preserve us from total demographic disasters, you can't do measures in the economy without holding back your expenditures. You have an amazing art machine, you have a camera where you don't have the ability to reward whoever's really working in that machine and that you can punish whoever's not working. So people in Croatia today when they're looking for a job and they know they won't do anything while they're hating. If you have your own company to hire, to keep someone like that on the payroll, so if you don't allow it in your company why you allow it in the state, we should treat the state money as if it were ours, because our children will have one day. And I have to say, so here you made a decision a few weeks ago giving 96 million kuna of severance money to people who are in the state service today to retire and that after they get an severance of more than 100,000 kuna they can go back to work. So explain to me where the logic is? And that's a small matter of expense. So we're talking about how many million kunas, 96 million kunas, 30 billion spent more. And you won't be able to move the economy until you go the way you do, but I'm gonna lose the election next, but I'm gonna do something right, and I don't see it. You want to encourage a real economy, I asked the minister why there's no relief for reinvested profits, the answer is that there wasn't much use for them, okay, so if it wasn't much use for you not leaving them behind, then it's not a lot of damage, so why are you punishing those who want to reinvest? I don't understand why you're punishing them. So those who wanted to reinvest now we're going to fine you because there's not many of you. Well, you don't have any damage to your budget. My people, that's how you're gonna boost the economy? I didn't have time to ask because my limit is to one minute of replication. Why is the profits paid twice taxed? Is that fair? What do you accomplish by doing that? Also, I asked, I was able to ask, why is there a tax on profit? The minister answered, so you know, when they recalibrate, I'm not interested in whether they'll recalibrate. Why is there a system where the employer credits the state in advance? Here, I've been asking the same question for months, I don't have an answer. So, the employer's lending you in advance. You're talking about recalculations. We want to be a land of knowledge. Yes, the minister said, we have a 2% limit. Why? 2% of the income an entrepreneur can donate to educational institutions. Why the limit? And yet I didn't get a logical, clear answer. Well, they didn't get to that. Well, that's great. If they haven't reached, why is there a limit? You promised, I'll tell you again, you promised 2% of GDP you'd invest in education. I expected exactly of your partners who allegedly because of education, the land of knowledge jumped into the Titanic government as they called it. Those who went against this particular minister with the government's impeachment today don't mind being with the government's minister at the expense of education. That's what they said. Now, the same thing you don't do for education, they don't care that you don't stand out 2% of GDP, you don't get up to 1%, and you're still limiting those who want to help you. You limit entrepreneurs who want for you, so your role should be to donate, help educational institutions to strengthen, don't work, okay, so don't limit those entrepreneurs who want to. Why is there no single double reduction in the tax base for all investments in education? These are measures if we want Croatia to be a country of knowledge. I'm asking you to consider some of these things. I'm not complaining and remember, I'm not objecting to you because I'm an opposition, but because I want to use the time that the citizens gave me to speak for them, and I don't care if you take this as our proposal, will you shape it so that it turns out that you suggested it, whatever you do, but don't paint the fence while your crater is in your hull. What measures are you talking about? You're talking about measures that young people up to 25 will have no taxes. They're up to 30 percent. And interestingly, it means to those who are 30 years old just when they have bigger living expenses, when they start families, then they get less pay. Explain to me where logic is. Explain to me what you have done to them in local, regional environments where the employer will see if they will receive a certain financial amount for income or not. Did you do them a bear favor? The example you gave, you say, the Income Tax Act, raises the untaxable part of your personal deduction from 3800 to 4000 kuna, and that's a measure. That's what you say. People, this is a measure where you will be able to use only half the employees of 50 kunas a month, and most regretfully I warn you of that several times already, most regrettable of all, there you went to compensate because these 50 kunas per month that you will only give to half the employees in Croatia, cost 500 million kuna, and that money will be returned from the state register to them. Who's filling the state register? So the same ones you allegedly gave 50 kunas to. It means spilling from hollow to empty. We're going to take it off here, we're going to add it here, and we're going to call it the fourth round of tax reform. I know my words are difficult, but I beg you, Croatia doesn't have much time. Croatia faces demographic cataclysm. Please adopt the proposal we gave you. In this way, I repeat, most people in Croatia who have low wages and 2.3 children will significantly change revenues and will not leave. Help employers they open jobs. They're the ones who are funding all of us here. Cut your own expenses, too. And finally solve the public administration in a way that those who work are there, and those who don't He won't be in public administration anymore. [[Thank you. Time.]] That's what you're expected to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175374	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Mrak-Taritash, who will speak for the GLAS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175375	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us 9 tax laws, 9 laws that are so-called. Four rounds of tax reform. The general question is, let's see in the context in which these laws are before us. After the budget was passed, it was decided by these laws in two readings, if you had decided ić in one reading we would not mind, so we should look at this in the context of reality and the framework in which we are discussing it. Otherwise, the minister understands sports well, so I think he'll understand what I'm about to say. There's a good-looking competition where teams compete, compete in the race, each team has five members and the best team is the one whose worst member is the best, so the best team is the one where the worst member is the best of all. That's how you feel about the government. You must see to the government that all members of the government or all who have worked together, the prime minister is the first to show this government, and one ministry or one sector can make a tremendous effort and, but there is a synergy and a common effect being seen. So when we talk about tax laws, what question do we all have to ask ourselves, what is the meaning of these nine laws, what kind of Republic of Croatia we want to have in 2030, or what kind of Republic of Croatia we want to have in 2050? Do we want to have an RH based on tourism? Maybe we do, and then it all makes sense together. Do we want everything that's thinking from the Republic of Croatia moved out? Maybe that makes sense, too. Perhaps the Republic of Croatia wants to be a large retirement home for other EU members, so we will develop a real estate business, so people will earn and work somewhere else and spend their old days in the Republic of Croatia. Let's just say it clearly, then let's say that this is the kind of RH we want to have, that we don't want people moving out, moving out at the best of their lives, moving out people who can work, people moving out with families, otherwise I think it's a good idea to experience their options, that it's much better to be fifth in the city, than first in the village, to see their options elsewhere, but what from this, all the sets of laws that we come here, and your set is small, I read, it's important for us to have some good impression, it's important that we leave as far away as possible, because in this set of tax laws for you ministers we talk about in fact when teachers, teachers and teachers are 35 days on strike. If in one word we should characterise our prime minister, there is one single word that characterises him at the same time, and that's blasphemy. After 10 days of teachers and teachers, teachers strike, the prime minister was supposed to be the one to invite them to the table and if they're looking for apples, and you're offering pears, there's no talking. If some of them speak Chinese and others speak French, they won't understand. But what do we have at this point? We have kids sitting at home, we have crazy parents who no longer know what they're going to do with those kids sitting at home, we have teachers, teachers and teachers who are outside and who have begged us to invite us to a table to talk, we have a prime minister who came here and he said, I'm willing to spend out of the budget that you're counting on 2 billion kuna, but I don't want to spend 200 or 300 million kunas on them, I'm going to give 2 billion to everyone, but I'm not going to give it to you, because that's not how the country is managed because this revolution that's a teacher, teacher and teacher is only talking about it, without us there's no education, without us having knowledge, call, sit down at the table and see how to get out of it. After 35 days, 36 days, 37 who sees the score? Let's tell the truth, this school year is ruined, that Monday starts teaching, that first week everyone's going to adapt to that sequel, behind that Christmas and New Year's, if I had a kid to graduate and go to college, we'd be freaking out, we're all kids last summer's holidays, so after summer holidays, they go to school, so the whole nine months don't even know they're going to school, or anything else, they're a fact. What message are we sending? So when you form a government, you evaluate this government not to those who are good and who are doing their job, but to those who do their job badly, and by this one government will be evaluated. Do we want to develop an economy in the Republic of Croatia? What kind of economy do we want? Are we reading from some of these laws? We don't read. Look at some other economies that do everything. It adapts to new conditions, adapts to new jobs, adapts to new ideas that are related to green economies, which are related to climate change, there is an excellent example, among other things, when we were developing an economy, the economy that developed in the garages was printing nylon bags. Those basic nylon bags, someone thus improved their personal budget, improved some family, there was something lighter. It's gone. There must be other jobs that are exclusively related to climate change and those who go first will be better off. Do we read it through individual laws that define tax policy? We don't read. Are we reading this story about incentives, which economy do we encourage? What do we want to be? We don't read that. This fourth tax reform as you call it, and we know it's not a reform. It's still at least comprehensive or complete. In the context of what we have, you're trying to do the best. I'm one of those guys who really doesn't have any problem when someone starts doing something to sort of commend it. You show some effort, you show some kind of story, but in vain the effort of the players because we are moving around in circles all the time, and we do not see any step out of all of this without one clear demographic policy of Croatia that needs to be adopted by consensus, behind that all that is done will actually not achieve its goal, all to use one such maybe a little uglier word, this is all further being a scribble. There should be one demographic policy, but this demographic policy cannot be read through a measure. This demographic policy is read in a completely different way. I'll say something that, everything changes. Today, couples are getting married, today individuals decide to have children late. They're building their careers and having kids late. Why? Because you still don't have kindergarten. The employers themselves are dealing with it in a certain way, the employers are trying to solve it all, but today jobs are different. Incomparably more jobs you can work from home, therefore, in this context all of this should be read, and we, or you, are doing the whole set as if nothing had changed. As if it's still working time, I don't know, from 6 to 2, I don't know anymore, very few of them at all work from 6 to 2, so the working time has changed, the jobs have changed, the way the approach has changed, and we're still spinning around and we haven't changed anything. But when you do something, the key question is, not what will be tomorrow, not what you will see in your term because these are some short-term measures. The key question we all need to ask together, where are we going? So the demographics are already freaked out and not in such a great time we see actually a rapid fall not only for people to emigrate but for the subject and the less children to be born, the less there is. We are now, when we cheat on 4 million inhabitants. Demographs say that in 20 years, we will be 3 and a half million inhabitants. We're not here. What are these measures for the businessmen, who will work? This year, 80,000 new jobs are open. We have consciously said, my people, we must have someone who will work because there is no, if there is no one who will work and who will earn, you will have nothing to pay the tax and charge the budget. So very simple. Oh, I was here from this pay phone about 50,000 jobs a year ago, when I came back and sat down, and I said, "I'm a little out of line, there won't be so many." So now we already have the need for 80,000 people to come and work for us. We have cases to come, to be there for a month and go somewhere else because let's be absolutely clear. We are some transition station for other EU countries where they see their future. They will see their future in Germany, France, Scandinavian countries, and we are just their transitional station. What makes it possible for employers to have certain measures to keep them? What are we offering more than they're going to offer there? From all these sets of tax laws, and that's what you need to see, unfortunately you can't see it. But the reality in which we live, let's tell ourselves in the face is this, we have teachers and teachers out there and we all hope it ends as soon as possible because it's not good. Regardless, we in the opposition could be evil and we could talk all the time, look, Prime Minister Plenkovic, everyone's out there, everybody's against it. But that's a serious problem. We have people going out of Croatia because here they don't, not because they don't have a job, they even have work to do. They don't want to be here. At this point, we need 80,000 jobs for someone to come to us, there's no one to come to work with. Try to see who's coming to work today. We have tied development to tourism which is the most sensitive branch and we are rapidly developing real-estate business. I must admit, I see nothing else, but that we have decided to be a big nursing home for other EU countries, we are safe, we have a good climate, it is relatively close, a visit to Croatia, let's say, casually in 2 days. But if that's what we decided to be, let's do it best. I don't think it's good. I don't think that's supposed to be the future. I don't want that future to my children. But let's look ourselves in the eye and say that it's here, that the moment is coming when we have to say enough. There are several sins for you, I personally have a great sin of pride because a lot, I think you're much better when you can talk to everyone, when you can sit at the table, when you can come out and come out and I've made a mistake, now there's enough, I won't do it anymore. Two rams on a hill are never good. And there's another great sin, indeceivables. When you have indicators that are good for you, when you have some trends that are good for you, and you do nothing but sit in the comfortable chair of your office, the greatest sin is the sin of inaction. And so Minister Maric, who is already leaving, and you can be a good minister, you can work hard, you can do all this and you can be the first somewhere, but the results of this government will be guided by who will be the last. And the weakest link in this government right now is Mr. Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175376	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Lalovec will first speak before the SDP's Club of Representatives. ... Please, you've changed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, this debate today is a bit of a pass, and I have to say it in the introduction because we've brought the state budget, voted, and tax reform is part of that state budget, and we've already had a debate in the first round and we've said everything more and in the meantime there's been no change that we expected until the second reading. And we could just repeat today what we said a few weeks ago, meaning something that was the intensity of this government and one of the few attempts to make any shifts in the state and something that the government and the PR-ovski very much resisted, so to speak, is this whole, comprehensive, tax reform. Today, however, it is quite clear that this large project, or at least so imagined, has ultimately not yielded any tangible and visible result for citizens or businesses, that is, the fact. Why am I saying that? So a very simple indicator, so the argument exists, and that's the share of total tax revenues in GDP, the share. I'm not even going to talk about the absolute tax level, so in absolute terms they've certainly grown, very much since 2015 the total tax revenues in the state budget, I'm stressing in the state budget, so in the central state they've grown by 15 billion kuna. I'll look back later on what could have been done with those 15 billion kunas in the public sector. And when you include all tax forms in the country, so also those at local and regional level, the total tax burden in absolute terms has increased by 21 billion by the end of 2018. These are data sent by the Ministry of Finance to EUROSTAT, meaning to the European Statistical Agency. So there is no mistake, these are the original data downloaded from the EU pages sent by our government there. Thus, in addition to such tax burdens and frantic figures, which say that today in Croatia are being collected at all levels, not only at the state level but at all levels 147 billion kunas of different taxes, contributions, local taxes and all other excise duties, taxes on consumption etc., etc. And all these forms of taxation have grown enormously in this time of the last three, four years. And why is that important to say now? Well, because it proves to be the fundamental goal of that so-called. comprehensive and broad tax reforms are, in fact, completely missed and not achieved. So what do you say next? How, then, to comment now on these individual measures in so-called The 4th round of tax reform, although it is not a reform. It's more of a procedure, adjustments in the system, you take a little somewhere, you give a little bit, etc., but in the end, when you draw a line of no significant tax discharge there. Those are the facts, as our prime minister would say, those are the facts. Now, I'm going to look briefly at these tax measures here, but first I want to say one thing very clearly. When we talk about these huge numbers of multiple taxes, then we have to keep in mind that it's paid by our citizens and that it's paid by employers, businesses. They are the source of these tax revenues and this is being poured into some budgets, into the state budget, into the local budget, into the regional budget. And the governments that rule and manage this budget at different levels are actually someone who redistributes money collected from people, from citizens, they were workers, they were employers and everyone else who spends in this country. Why am I stressing that? So you can't put the Prime Minister in a way that when something needs to be done in that money distribution that he's the one taking or giving. So, these days we've been listening all along to the prime minister give teachers, how the prime minister gives health care professionals, no matter what the prime minister gives. He is headed by the government by someone who manages the government in redistribution of not government money, but the money of taxpayers' citizens. And it can't be set up like a colleague of Dark Tarritash just before she said, bahato, that I'm giving it, that and that. If so, in this great crisis that de facto delegates, it seriously derivates everything perhaps and those positive parties in this government's term that are now deeply stuck in this problem of pay in the education sector and actually doesn't know which way out of this situation is, because every possible solution now was this compromise, there was something similar to defeat for this government, which she herself is the most guilty of. Because when you look back a few weeks or months or months, it was really minimal, I'm going to say the minimum amounts in terms of what the government through the state budget is incomeing by tax. The 400 million kuna that should have been allocated to increase the coefficients in education is indeed the minimum amount. I have already used one comparison here when I said that Minister Maric, figuratively, signed every morning with coffee for that country's 400 million kuna day. When you multiply it by 250, 260 working days then it's just the Croatian budget. And that's true, it's also a fake. And it couldn't have been for one responsible government problem at this level, but exclusively vanity, haughtiness and access you'll only have what I'm giving you, and not what you're looking for has now led to this rather complex almost unexplainable situation, unexplainable for the government, but I believe that the unions in education will ultimately be able to fight, sooner or later for what they've been looking for. And now, one more thing, every one of my colleagues in the assembly, and, of course, many in the government are talking about it, okay, so what are you SDP talking about when your time the public sector's pay has been cut. And then journalists, not me, journalists, ask Prime Minister Plenkovic two days ago, but then the prime minister was in crisis, and he says no, and then another fellow journalist says, but then GDP fell, it's not the topic of today's talks, so Prime Minister Plenkovic answers. So to every citizen, every citizen of this country is clear that the SDP took over from the HDZ government in 2011 practically what is being said figuratively to the burned country. They're calling us 70 billion kuna debt, that we've made in 4 years, and the government of Ivo Sanader later, Jadranka Kosor, in 4 years, has made a debt of 100 billion kuna. It's a fake, it's not nonsense, it's CNB statistics. So, here no figure has been given without being based on accurate data from statistics, official statistics from the Croatian state. Therefore, I ask you nicely 100 billion kuna between 2007 when the crisis began in '08 until 2011. Another data in a relative sense that was a rise in the share of public debt in GDP by 37%, Ivane checked later, 37% at 65.3%. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Greek, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175378	Mr. Schucker, you can't, you can't throw yourself off the bench, if you want to have instruments of injury to the Rules of Procedure or whatever you want to be this one, to re-evaluate your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175379	So, I'm very happy after this speech I'm offering to show you this information that is the original data.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175380	Mr. Greek, Mr. Greek, you may proceed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175381	Thank you very much. So I'm offering to discuss it, so both of us, and see what the data shows. 37% of the public debt at the end of the term of office of Sanader's government, 65.5% of the public debt in GDP at the end of the term of office in 2011. So almost double, almost double in a relative sense, and that famous 60 percent limit has been crossed. And don't tell us any more about us in charge of Croatia. 100 billion debt, and you know what happened in that time, minus 10% in GDP cumulatively. Let's not, let's not people go a little bit straight and let's admit the crisis was, let's be correct that, I understand, I understand many moves from that time. Do you remember who reduced public sector wages by 6% and who out of force put a union-government contract on a 6% annual increase in 3 years consecutively? Who? There he is, Ivan Shuker. Next, do you remember who introduced the hack? So-called Then the official crisis tax. And I understand it all, so I'm not criticizing here, I just want to say the facts. It's the facts. That's the facts. It was a difficult economic crisis, and that's how you guys had to work. And our government came, truth be told, it owed 70 billion kuna, but in that time of -10% of GDP, the GDP in the last year was pulled out on a positive basis and we ended up with 2.4% of economic growth. It's the facts. Right? Therefore, if someone wanted to be correct, then they will say, that, in the pay, the HDZ government primarily affected the HDZ government, then the SDP came to the burned country, so to speak, with minuses in each segment, with skeletons from the closets that were falling out, trying to get the country out of the crisis in 2014, unfortunately 2 years after we came to power, we succeeded. And end the term with 2.5% of economic growth and you know how much you're projecting for next year? That's 2.5%. So in four years, you didn't get away or get away from it, it's the facts. It's back on again. So I'm standing firmly behind all the figures that I've put out here today and you must always count on these manipulations that come from your ranks in these two, three segments, the growth rate, the 70 billion-long salary in the public sector, that you'll get the answer, exactly as I've given you today based on the fact that the official data of the Croatian institutions is from the statistical institutions, the CNB, the Ministry of Finance, etc., etc. So let's stop manipulating the data or rather, stop manipulating the data, talk about the real time we lived in, and today is a completely different situation and that you didn't take advantage of this situation, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175382	Thank you, time. Just a moment, Mr. Shucker. Mr. Greek, you forgot about Mr. Lalovec in your enthusiasm of speech. In the enthusiasm of the speech you forgot about Mr. Lalovec who was supposed to hold the second part...... Right? [[Greek's Intruder, he doesn't understand.]] But it says so. ... It says so. [[Greek's Intruder, he doesn't understand.]] Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175383	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm looking for a break. If I may? Thank you very much, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, one reason is, of course, that the minister does not listen to these arguments that we are talking about here, but it is much more important that the tax changes today and the tax revenues that Croatia is making need to correct the injustice that is currently at work, which is that we have underpaid employees in the education system. Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Maric and the entire set of HDZs continue. They don't listen, they don't want to talk, they don't offer solutions, they just do the opposite. They offer blackmail and tell people that this 2+2+2 will also end what they promised if the education system doesn't accept their terms. On the other hand, if that's the case, would Mr. Plenkovic perhaps reduce the VAT? If you don't accept 2+2+2? But what's more important, I ask you Mr. Radin and the gentlemen of the ministry and you gentlemen of the HDZ, from power, when will our children go to school? There's no school in the Republic of Croatia for 35 days. The kids are sitting at home, they've lost a year, they've lost their learning continuity, now that they're back in school, they're going to learn to go back to school for seven days. The holidays of Christmas, New Year's Eve, the holidays, the school year, the first semester, when are you going to let the kids go to school? That's what we're asking you to do right now. If you could agree with Bandic in 30 seconds for your corrupt activities in Zagreb, agree on the school because it is not my partner Intruder Radin: Thank you, time./... educational system.../Intruder Radin: Time, time. ...who, along with me, raise my children to be... [[Thank you. ...Bandić than partners are teachers,.../]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175384	I'm guessing you're looking for a break... I'll give you a little more time. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Up to 12 and 10. Thank you very much. It's 11:56 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.10 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with fellow Members, dear many colleagues and colleagues. So unfortunately, how does it usually happen here in Parliament when you have nothing to say about a specific subject then you talk about everything and everything. But given what is said and what will be said in the future, let me still try to make a summary of these tax laws on behalf of the club. But first of all, one question and one answer to both you, colleagues and colleagues and to remain in the record, why are taxes served? To finance public needs. And who's using these public needs? Croatian citizens. So that's a fact. Now, let's work this out a little bit. If we say here that we're going to cut some tax then at the same time we have to think whether we're able to get out of the revenue side of the budget both at the state level and at the local level to meet all the needs we've given someone in certain laws or which we're entitled to by adopting a state budget. Unfortunately, however, in the debates in this House, we deny that we are adopting this state budget in this assembly and that some documents on the state's financial situation are being written on the basis of it, which the state left behind, and what it succeeds in the following year. Also colleagues and colleagues, definitely after the 4th round of tax reform, we can conclude one fact, but if we look at it at a static level, even if the Ministry of Finance had to make an effort, and by a certain methodology, do it at a dynamic level, then that information would be much more quality. So if we look at the static level, if we look at this static then this total, release, we'll say the reduction of the tax press is to Croatian citizens and the Croatian economic past with what we're proposing, what the government proposes for the next year to Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy has put almost 9 billion kunas. And more colleagues and colleagues, don't forget when we talk about these nine billion kunas, one very important thing with a certain reduction in the tax press we took the incomes of local self-government units and we didn't, as some of us before, leave a billion and a half kuna to local self-government units, so let them figure out what they want but the government compensated it with 2.5 billion kuna from the revenues of the state budget. So that was one new item on the spending side of the state budget. And when you add that up, then that number is impressive. If there is nothing to object to then Croatia is said to have a far larger tax press. Well, maybe I didn't want to talk about this tax press the way I'm going to talk, but given my predecessor and others, I just have to say some things, ask you and the entire Croatian public one question. Has the government increased its tax burden over the past 3 years as regards value added tax. So that's the key question because if your income increases and I'm going to elaborate some figures later and you haven't increased the tax burden, then that's the result of some of the processes that this government has done. If we look at the structure of GDP growth, so if we see that from that... Let's say 2.9 as much as it was now in the last quarter or at the annual level of 2.6, 2.7% of the 2% of the points are consumption, then definitely this part of the government's government's funds from the state budget are channelled towards citizens and entrepreneurs are part of that consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where the government made some moves. With the release of investment space, the government has given air to the economy that once again generates economic growth. And now watch what happens, so the SDP, the SDP government in 2012, raised the general VAT rate from 23% to 25%. She raised the differentiated VAT rate from 10 to 13%, percentage points. And look how much their income grew in 2012, 2015. ... The VAT is just about $3.4 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now look, the second government is coming, inheriting exactly the same tax rates with some kind of petty corrections and income in practically two years, 2.5.3 years increase by more than 10 billion kuna, with over 10 billion kuna. But look, colleagues and colleagues, wage growth is simply based on certain laws that we have passed in this House of Commons has obliged the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, above all, HZMO to increase pensions because pensions have their own formulas that are related to both wage growth and everything. Therefore, it is also an additional expenditure in the state budget. And you when you take total, growth... The funds for salaries and pensions will then see what reason and why the expenditure side of the state budget has grown almost, only with that basis for nearly 10 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why colleagues and colleagues when we discuss taxes then we must never look at only one side, we must always watch the whole story because we always have to be careful that someone might lose their rights if we cut some taxes. Therefore, one who proposes tax cuts must simply create conditions to increase revenues without increasing the tax press. The tax press only increases if you raise the tax rate and if in a different way the tax revenues are charged, they are the result of increased economic activities. It's just facts. Now, if we were to discuss this in this high house, then perhaps even some suggestions might have come up a little differently, but if this debate in this house was today, it's not, unfortunately, it's not. But I repeat who raised the VAT rate from 23% to 25%, differentiated rates from 10% to 13%, while in debt to the state by 80 billion kuna, and about how much the government owed you just have to look at the execution of the state budget. That deficit of the state budget can only be financed in two ways, one is to sell the property and finance the deficit with it, and the other is to be in charge. So, we don't need to get involved here as much as anyone and convince someone else owed the state, but look if you come to power, then you boast that you've restructured the shipbuilding and then the costs of restructured the shipbuilding of some 12, 13 billion kunas just bookablely switch to the budget deficit of the two previous years to make your budget look somehow and say it's theirs, although by all methodologies that cost was at the moment that it came to payment. But look what happens, she has a national God's right, and someone else else, what happens to them at the end of the term, even though they shouldn't give guarantees to shipbuilding at once after three years of break, has started to give guarantees to shipbuilding, and this government has been welcomed by 4 billion and 100 protested guarantees. And we didn't switch that to the 2014 deficit, 2015, when guarantees were issued, but the Ministry of Finance regulated it into the government budget deficit of the year when those guarantees were paid. There was no accounting exhibition like some others did. These are the facts of colleagues and colleagues, such as the fact that the coefficients were reduced because it was simply such a situation in the budget and we can see what one of us was discussing at that time in the assembly and you can't ignore if it was a crisis that someone could give anything, but also colleagues and colleagues were the fact that GDP was practically zero in 2011, it was minus 0.2%. Now, if you have a major downturn in 2009, in 2010, he practically fell, and in 2011, the second government disappeared, and then this economic downturn suddenly grew 10 times from what it was in 2011, which is official statistical indicators, it's not an invention of me or someone else. And then you say someone else is to blame. And what you get, now we get the key difference between this tax reform that this government is doing and that they've done before, raise taxes. And no one can say that the general VAT rate is not raised from 23 to 25, 2014. The differentiated rate from 10 to 13%. The only tax reduction in the previous government was an increase in the non-taxable part to think from 1,800 to 2,400, but this government later raised it. And the compensation for that to local self-government units didn't go. Local self-government units have lost a billion and a half kuna. Why am I saying all this? Well, I'm talking just because everyone's coming up with some kind of data today that just aren't real. This all I said is in official data whether this assembly, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whether or not the resolution ministries. And that gives one extra power, one additional meaning of this tax discharge. One more thing, the government's political decision was to go tax redistribution of income tax and profit tax. It was this government's political decision, and she's been doing it all these four years, and she hasn't said it, let's cut our health contributions by 3 percentage points, then after 6 months I was joking, he was wrong, so let's go get him back. It's not a concise policy. Here you can see a concise policy, and even if someone disagrees with some things and can say you're wrong, maybe you should have done something, but here you see a conciseness. Also, as the conciseness in what the minister said about decisions regulated by the Income Tax Regulation, that certain remuneration of employees in the Republic of Croatia is untaxable. So the government realized at the moment that more than 800,000 employees came out of tax scissors and when practically 80% of our pensioners unfortunately came out of tax scissors, it simply realized that it had to open up a new measure that would be applicable to everything. Because if you gave someone a chance to pay 13 wages to 5,000 kuna, we call it the 13 wages, then it clutches everything, but if you'd raised the untaxable part, then only those who are affected by tax scissors, those who aren't affected by tax scissors wouldn't be clutching it. Also a warm meal and accommodation with credible documentation and everything else. So it's a tax measure and a tax relief that tangs everyone, everyone who's employed and now the matter of their employers wants to give it to them or won't. And cumulatively, when we add it all together, it's for those employees who have accommodation and nutrition that are on the ground, at an annual level of nearly 15,000 kuna, almost 15,000 kuna. Now, look at your colleagues and colleagues, these are the money that we have brought here belongs to local self-government units, these money is funded and not paid, but the material costs of primary and secondary education, the children's kindergarten is funded, etc. and if the government had not found a substituting of compensation measures as we call them in the state budget for these releases, units of local self-government and services would have been very difficult to provide. And so when we talk about taxes, then we have to keep this in mind, we have to keep everything in mind, one very complex story, doesn't tolerate politics, I've been expecting in view of some colleagues who spoke here today and their experience that the debate will be just like that. However, we throw the debate into another yard, and about what is today, perhaps a better and better idea might have come up today, let's say let's take this story about the release 100% and 50% income tax for these citizens up to 25 and 30 years, so how will this story be treated in the area of special state care or this on, this or the basis of the Vukovar City Act, so maybe today we've discussed it, no one will say that the profit tax rate paid by 12% is raised to those who have income of 7.5 million kuna, with practically 93% of entrepreneurs in the Republic... with 12% taxation, so a number of positive things we could talk about, but when you don't have the arguments then you go back to prehistory and what happens, but colleagues and colleagues, the rate of VAT from 23% to 25% is raised by someone else for reasons that it was simply a situation, a crisis in the world and what happened happened. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] HDZ Club with all these arguments And the explanation of some things will support this package [[Intruder: Thank you]] Law of Tax Reform of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175387	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Tomislav Zhagar's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175388	Thank you, Vice President HS, the distinguished representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, given that this package of laws is now in the second reading, I will try not to repeat in the debate what was already said in the first reading, but may highlight those important elements that seem to me to be, let's call them, the stumbling block for development and the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy, which of these concepts was more acceptable or wider and all that is happening to us today, all of these problems that have come to us because, let me still use that word, I don't know anymore I don't know that the Government of the Republic has found this situation with teachers because this is now taking too long, 14 days for children not to go to school and it should certainly be solved. But why is that? This package of laws could be directed in, or directed at 3 directions which he, which he is actually moving towards dispensing to call it, is a value added tax, profit tax and income tax, that's three things that this story is about. Now that I've said discharge, although value added tax remains at the general VAT rate, it remains at a general rate of 25% because it was necessary as the prime minister here said, if he wants to meet the union's demands to increase wages not to, to, in the way that...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175389	Mr. Sagar, one second, we'll stop time, can you give me that freedom?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175390	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175391	We welcome, since the students of Vladimir Nazor High School are now leaving from Chabra, who are here today with us, thank you for being with us. ... We stopped time and now we can, we can, you can go on, go ahead. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175392	And now that I know where I am. Let's go, let's say hello to the students. Therefore, the overall VAT rate remains at 25%, is not reduced, the prime minister explained because if wages are to be increased then it is necessary to keep those nearly 2 billion as revenues of the budget, but one fact is constantly silenced or forgotten. On the one hand, if we say that the overall VAT rate should be reduced by one percentage point and that this would result in a reduction in income, if we leave a general VAT rate at the current level, we will not have an increase in or will not be achieved what should have been achieved, that we have not, that we have not touched at all, because if you, if the pay is increased, and the pay is a teacher, those salaries are certainly which will not go into savings, these are salaries that will go into consumption, either according to obligations or for paying credit or other means of spending, and those wages will generate even more income from value added tax and there are data, and we cannot escape it is the minister this morning when he explained that, in the first reading, we talked a lot about it. Although in 4 rounds it goes with tax redundancies, we have the biggest tax injection so far, tax revenues are growing to us, but that's no longer the problem of these, these measures that are listed by this discharge, but it's a structural problem, our gross domestic product is growing exclusively, you watch out for consumption, we can say something investment, but there, on these investments are mostly investments in which the state participates, at least there are private sector investments involved, and then we have another side effect when investment is growing, when GDP is growing, imports are necessarily growing, the import component, we could see it best on the example of shipbuilding. Now why do we have things, why are things so unfavourable? The Croatian Employers' Association is a good tool where we can see, according to it, the biggest and the weakest points are the burden on the economy and the investment business barriers, therefore private investment is lacking. Why is there no such investment? Well, one of the reasons is that we have the HUP Skor again shows, the educational, health and pension system and the territorial structure that has a very bad, bad picture, so we haven't been doing structural reforms and then we don't have, we don't have enough investment in, in entrepreneurship. And of course the labour market, now in the labour markets, we need to be very careful and everything we mean today under the labour market, because surely even though in public such an impression is gained. This morning, I warned the minister that he too encouraged such thinking with his statements that must be more appropriate. Here's what we'll say specifically for teachers, given that they strike, that teachers are not on the labour market. How could they not? Well, teachers are on the labour market, and they're affecting the market. And when we talk about the labour market, then we need to be careful what we mean by that. Because the question of increasing the teacher's salary coefficient is a question that solves things in one or two years, it's actually the basis for the future. If we want to do what we've been saying here for several years, reforming the education system, curriculative reform how are we going to do that if we don't improve the physical state of the teacher? The minister warned with the right that if the teacher's salaries were increased, so if he touched, allow me that expression of the sanctity of the coefficients to then make a chain reaction and others would ask that the coefficients be corrected. But I don't see that fear, Minister, why that fear? The regulation on the coefficients that the government has adopted, which has been amended many times, does seem a little strange. And you over there are one coefficient forest that's like a shovel being thrown at. There should be a thorough job and you say you won't negotiate the coefficients until an analysis is made. But who should be doing the analysis? Well, we have people in the public sector who can do it today. Let an analysis be made as soon as possible, and my advice is to you once again, do not be afraid to increase the coefficients for teachers, you will see that the effect will not be fatal for the budget, and if that is the basis for correcting other injustices then it will not even be bad. But now we go back to the economy and what with the right of the people who are employed in the so-called so-called economy. They object to the real sector, and also to this increase in public sector wages. The biggest problem is actually the burden of the economy in unclear rules in a large number of procedures from building permits to be obtained from taxes themselves. Someone here today also mentioned paying an advance tax on profits, all of these are the things that tax collectors put into a uncertain situation, it's the biggest problem of entrepreneurship, which you find in a uncertain situation. I remember the conversation, and here I think it was at the Agency for Encouragement of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship when it was negotiated on co-financing, and I think it's the area of pig farming, so someone asked the question of meat prices for the next seven, eight years, right? Who can calculate that for you and who can guarantee it? But if you have a systematic policy, if you insist on it, then no matter what the price of meat is, the project will be justified. And in that sense, such tax discharges that are short of breath will not bring to short breath the changes we need to make in order to bring the economy to life. This morning I read again to make sure that I read well the statement of the bankruptcy manager of the Oilics who proposes the rescue of the Oilics in such a way that they would have to go into liquidation of the Oilics d.d. Because the creditors will not accept the bankruptcy plan and now it proposes that the state as one of the distinct creditors transfer some of the assets to the company's daughter Uljanik 1856 and that other creditors do so in order to be created, otherwise this company was founded I think last year, has a core capital of 20,000 kuna so that it would increase the base capital of this daughter's company in 1856 should be employed as it says, 450 people and it should provide some 50 million euros of HBOR to continue first construction, I think that's the Stocar ship 526 and continue to work. And this story in the context of these changes is very picturesque. What are we actually doing? Are we kidding ourselves? Are we trying to make that look like a perpetum mobile? So something that didn't work, something that didn't work out now we want to make bypass, so we're going to run it. It's the same thing with determining the level of wages, it was either a minimum salary or an untaxable part in this case is proposed to increase the non-taxable part of the salary. Of course they won't feel the lowest wage because these salaries can no longer be taxed or taxed when they are not taxed or burdened. And any artificial pay raise that doesn't follow productivity growth is long-term devastating. The Minister knows this very well, and what in this case I think the Minister of Finance is, in my opinion, even one of the most important people in the country, again, I would like the Minister of Finance to be elected as president of the state directly that no one can do anything, so when he says there is no money, then there is no real money, but there is no one, and not just for a teacher, there are none at all, you can spend as much as anyone wants. This is how it really feels to the ministers that there are no teachers, there are other things for them. The finance minister is in one situation where he must balance between income and expenditure. A fellow Shuker spoke rightly when talking about taxes we must bear in mind that taxes cover all those expenditures that are necessary in society. But what bothers me in that and such a relationship of power that the finance minister doesn't really have or I don't know that there are instruments that he and he's also the Deputy Prime Minister, as he's going to tell his fellow ministers so you don't do anything. 2.3 billion kuna is less withdrawn from EU funds for this year, 2.3 billion kuna, 555+1 units of local self-government, general government revenues, I don't know if there is a country in the world, there is no country in our environment whose general income is half of GDP, the general state income is half of GDP. That kind of state, here's my colleague's suggestion, Branko, thank you, there's no such state. Then something structural is wrong with us. Today it's these commissioners, the sheriffs, the local sheriffs, the local arrests, tomorrow it's the teachers because they don't want to do anything, the day after tomorrow they'll be the cops, no. It's the government of the Republic of Croatia, whichever government it was, at any point, it's the government of the Republic of Croatia who has to do something to change these things. The Deputy Prime Minister should have the authority to tell the ministers of his colleagues, be serious, start working, Minister Kujundzic, an 80-year-old man from Zdenci municipality, is going to see Osijek with a red so-called. The C1 manual, in Osijek hospital, tells him he has to build a head CT so he can jump there to Zdence where he lives so he can get a red C1 key card for the CT, but with that manual, he won't go to a CT checkup, but he'll come to the day hospital, he'll get a daily hospital manual, in the living hospital... I think it's a white card in D2 and then with that white manual, it's going to go to CT, a man of 80 who doesn't have a car, he can't, he's having a hard time moving, he's going to jump from Osijek to, and then when the doctor said you have in the system, you have, you're networked, you see that manual, someone out there, a sister, or who's already said on call, so let him jump, if he can't, he doesn't have to come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, she said if she couldn't come, she should die. These are problems, and that is why the finance minister needs to talk seriously to Minister Kujundzic. We also have this State Office for the digitization of society. The Republic of Croatia has a way out of 3D technology. I'll call it that. 3D is important here. Digitalization, digitization and digitization. Without that there is no progress, all of these measures that you ministers are doing here are, they give, they can't be bad and say they don't give results, they give results, but structurally, they don't show significant success, let's look at Estonia, let's look at what people have done, so we have examples of where this can be done, in the Republic of Croatia we just need the will. And when we talk about coefficients, once again, we're here all the Parliament, all the MPs met to vote the coefficient to the Chief State Inspector to get paid. For the Chief State Inspector we could negotiate his coefficient, meet, for teachers we can't, here for 14 days the children don't go to school and to clarify that, school founders, I see they're silent, I don't know what's with, not everyone, some, most of them are silent. Founder's school has, they're mayors... or mayors, there are from all political options. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Minister, they are teachers of all political options, it is not about any political planting, pressure, it is simply about fighting for a better Croatia, Croatia where education will be a priority, in which we will give teachers at least a material part of what belongs to them so that they can educate children because they will... Tomorrow go somewhere further educate the kids out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175393	Time, thank you. Now it's Mr. Branko Hrg's turn in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175394	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with Associates. We are today discussing in the second reading of a package of tax laws, the fourth round of tax reform, listening to a variety of discussions, in the end we talk very little about what is really before us and these are tax laws. The tax laws whose changes and whose reforms were therefore due to tax discharge, with this package of about 9 billion kuna and that which we used to unload, we used to dissipate the man, so the citizen, the employee, the pensioner, and we used to dissipate the entrepreneurs. It is a fact that very rarely we can hear here in this assembly, in this package, and if there is anything to say, solidly done in this mandate, in the term of this government of this parliamentary majority, then it is generally difficult to combine something else in general with these moves of tax discharge, so citizens and entrepreneurs. Our club will support these amendments to the law. In particular, because they are aimed at increasing minimum wages, tax further tax redistributions on income, so they are further focused on the tax redistributions of entrepreneurs of certain groups and I will mention this part of the young tax exemption. This has caused a lot of controversy, even the expression that it is discriminatory, that it is discrimination of people and then at the same time we have a situation that we all swear on young people, we all want young people, we all want to stay young, we all want to finish our schools whether professional, whether colleges and stay working and live in Croatia. I do not see any reason to say at any point that it is discriminatory but that, I think it is a good message for young people who need to start their working life, who need to start bending their family nest and thus try to keep at least one part of Croatia, in their midst, in their local self-governments. There has been a lot of criticism about local self-government because, of course, to local self-government that is financed from income tax, they feel that this will lose some of that income but in the long run, they will not lose that part of their income, because if these young people stay, if they stay in those units of local self-government, they live there, they do not go out in the long run, then they will, of course, in the long run, make sure that the units of local self-government and pay taxes and other taxes that go and ultimately preserve life in it. There was also a lot of cry for that part of losing those revenues from local self-government but there was not enough perhaps not enough to say commendation but positive comments when for the first time towards local self-government by the state, therefore one fiscal decentralisation was made and when local self-government was suddenly, most of the local self-government, of course not all of them, more developed, those who were stronger, they should not have received any money from the Balance Fund when suddenly and local self-governments that had not previously received significant funds. And then some local self-government leaders and their representative bodies turned towards investing, developing, creating better living conditions, some began to organize concerts, festivals, forgivenesss. Some still go and buy shoes, all kinds of things we see. And I think that maybe a little of the ministers were wrong and maybe in that fiscal decentralisation we had to define a little bit more strongly how and how it's going to be used and spent because you know when you suddenly have a lot of money and you didn't have all kinds of ideas coming to mind, and we know that people like to do a little bit of it to their voters on the ground, and then they use that money that's citizens' money for things that maybe shouldn't work. But everyone has their own responsibility, they have choices, so everyone says so so the citizens will evaluate it and it will be either positive or negative but in many things it's gone, one part of that money is gone irrevocably and in principle it's gone, it's spent and maybe not some things that have been done. So I'm not generalising, I said in the introduction that there were those leaders and representative bodies who went very cleverly to invest that money, they used it, they used it especially for their components to use European money, since at this time in the mandate, so this government still started a whole series of various infrastructure projects and programmes, and that investment cycle is very much felt in all parts of Croatia that today there are almost no mayors of the municipality or mayors when you come into possession, when you come to the day of the municipality or of the city that you don't boast so many projects, so many and so many European money. Therefore, criticism that it has not been done, that investment and the use of European funds have not been launched does not stand and the good part is the fiscal decentralisation that local leaders could therefore have followed all this together. And I know there's only one real investment cycle in local self-government before us because many projects have been prepared, and especially in this part of the water utility infrastructure, agglomeration. So there will be before us in this year and next year a whole series of competitions and projects, huge projects that will only take place in the area of Koprivnica and Križevci County in three agglomeration programs over a billion kunas. So investments like we don't remember, in the end we don't remember them being there and that's the fact. Now that we're talking about the overall situation and, of course, everyone has mentioned salaries and pay-outs in the public sector, we at the club particularly welcome the Prime Minister's decision to give up his pre-election promise, to cut the VAT by 1%, and to direct that 1% of the VAT to people's salaries. What is sad for me, I am saddened that here in this assembly, even in our public statements for daily political purposes, we are trying to use the problem that did not create this government that has created all governments so far in the Republic of Croatia, which is the problem of the degradation of educational workers. So it's sad that anyone from the opposition today is trying to catch some petty political points at it. And the message is don't try people because you won't catch them. We're all responsible for these people and we're responsible and we're all guilty or less. But in any case, it's not time for petty politics and small-time political points, because they're not there, but it's time to really find a solution. And I am convinced that the solutions will be found, that solutions will be found, that one reason will prevail, one rationality, that emotions will still be put aside a little bit and that there will be a final solution. And then in that second part and to the corrections of all these things that are present in the public sector so that people are not degraded but would have some starting position and start based on equal conditions and then according to their work, according to the quality of their work, according to the time spent in work they were adequately rewarded. Now, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, Minister, so the club will support the entire package of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175395	Thank you, too. Now it's your turn, sir. We've got two agents. First, it's Mrs. Crescent. At least then, Mr. Curly in front of the HNS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175396	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, here we are today discussing 4 rounds of tax reform which unfortunately did not reduce the overall VAT rate, but we also have the view that it is better to keep the rate of 25% and 1.8 billion kuna to be used for other purposes that are really needed at this time or in the wage correction and many other things. But we also hope that the time will come in view of these trends and this situation which is in the Republic of Croatia that we will actually be able to think about a more significant reduction in the overall rate of this 1%. Now there would be little reference to some laws, between the first and second readings there were no significant changes, except some small adjustments, of course, to further improve these laws. As far as the Value Added Tax Act is concerned, we must certainly set aside the possibility of paying the VAT at the charge of up to 7.5 million kuna, so anyone can now decide whose turnover is up to 7.5 million kuna whether to pay the VAT when it is charged or to continue to decide to be invoiced. What's even more important about this part is to isolate, which is to reduce the VAT rate to 13% for meals and sweets, and there were different solutions, we had a first rate of 10%, so it was raised to 13, so it was increased to 25, so there were some exceptions, but now it's precisely defined what 13% is calculated no matter where it's served, so they're meals and sweets and it's really explained there. What are changes compared to first reading, it is to be in art. The 5th century 3. changes point z) and this is taxing the reduced VAT rate of 13% for phonogram rights holders, which is related to copyright, which is actually a logical solution. As far as profit tax law is concerned, we also have a new threshold of 7.5 million kuna where the profit tax rate is now paid 12%, we heard that 93% of the total number of entrepreneurs will now pay 12%. But unfortunately, again, I have to remember the entrepreneurs from where I come from, which is not a resolution of this law, and it is they will pay the same, many of them or most of the rate, the profit rate of 12%, but it will be a very small absolute amount because it is a working intensive industry where it is really low, where the salaries of workers are small and we need to find a solution for that branch because there are a lot of entrepreneurs who employ a lot of people, who are now going to increase the minimum wage by this Regulation, in fact, a part of them should grow in wages, but what relationship it will be, we will see because they are only able to pay the non-taxable part of those who have now added to the results of the work, now many of them will have to pay in the form of wages, so whether they will be able to keep this untaxable part of the work plus pay, but they are still calculating, but this same amount of money that they have not been too much in the same amount of the money, which they pay, which they pay, which they are not paid in the most. However, I must commend many things in this part of the Income Tax Act, in particular I would set aside measures relating to demographic policy. Here we have a personal deduction now extending the receipts that do not enter the censorship for dependent members where we have first included and rewards to students during practical work, but also fees to students during dual education. An additional demographic measure is also the payment of the non-taxable part for kindergarten costs where the employer can untaxably pay his employee the part he pays for kindergarten. And I'm glad that in this part of where it is, you don't pay taxes for young people until the age of 25. by 30 g, respectively. 50% is paid to the respected part not to be the employer's obligation per month, that this will only be the first time after the final calculation, so somewhere in the 5th month, and I hope that the same solution will be found by then to make up for the units of local self-government unless they have so much revenue increase that they can satisfy or comply with their budget. As compensation measures are due to this personal deduction from 3.800,00 to 4 I am sure there will be a solution in this section, and now I will ask my colleague Curaj for a follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175397	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. So not to repeat myself, I'm just going to briefly absorb not only, I think the most important thing is this last round of whole, not whole, total, non-total, so anyway, what matters and what citizens feel in their pockets, what economic senses and that's what, the only thing that really matters in this whole thing. This whole peri-pedi, whole, half-full, half, no, yes, whatever, it's important that we, like this time, make tax changes that go in favor, means to the citizens, according to the economy, no one is prescribed additional tax obligations, but that they are disbursed. It's of course on the side of the opposition, he says you can always do more, you need more, of course, to get everyone to a nice touch. On the other hand, you have to be responsible, and I've already said it a few times already, you can't do everything overnight. I've shown a graph here for the last time which is the best,... It actually shows what happens when you reduce or increase tax burden. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if tax revenues are increased, or tax revenues are increased, revenues are reduced at one point after the dot. Same thing when we go backwards. This dot where it's balanced, nobody knows where it is, it can't be said with certainty it's such a VAT rate, it's such a rate of income tax and all those untaxable or any other taxes. This must be gradually determined because this is a consistent change, the size of the economy, the economic movements, extremely, extremely variable. And that's why we need to go gradually, so we need to monitor and watch how the changes react. And of course, if they're good and they're going in the right direction that when we reduce the tax burden, there's an increase in economic activity and income increases. So that's the same thing as I said you cut the price of the product, someone would logically say now you're going to make less money, you're going to sell more of that product and you're going to finally earn more. Now that should mean how long. It's the most basic graph, whoever little economy is looking at offers and demand in flexibility to what extent you can have a price impact on your income and how that price will move. And more or less, that's the same graph. Now, what have we done here? There are some things that have really been mentioned here for years as burdens, as something that is excessive. Everything goes into further discharge. Of course, what's good is that we have the principle of the cashier's payment of VAT so that you can now choose up to 7.5 million kuna that you're a liability only when someone pays you to be owed by the state. You used to have those retail companies going bankrupt, small companies that were invoiced, generated one indifference. They had the state sitting on the bill, and you're in charge of VAT, and they didn't charge for it. And op, op, op, one, two, three laps, block, goes all, goes bankrupt. Companies are neither guilty nor debtors. Now we can do it for these little ones, we're absolutely giving you a lift, and that's a very good thing. Furthermore, the same for profit tax, that's what the minister was already saying, is increasing the threshold for those who go to 12%, and it's also equal to 7.5 million kuna, so I think it's going to be over 90.93% of those who are going to be small and medium enterprises in that class. So again I say it goes to the benefit of the economy and all that. As for income tax, here I had some remarks in my first reading and personally if, I will now try to do something with the amendment. When we talk about disbursement of the salaries of young people, it is good that our proposal is accepted to give little air to local self-government units as regards their incomes that they can be calculated and that it is really in favour of these young people that they will eventually receive tax taxes for all of that part of the part in their tax application, i.e. in the tax solution. 50% if 25-30, 20-25 or younger 100% of that income tax is going to be some sort of accumulated savings, and when it starts year by year, it's certainly something they can count on. That's how we do one demographic measure, though we don't help employers, they don't have a smaller cost, but their workers have some delayed incomes to count on. What I would like and what I will personally submit to the amendment to include the craftsmen younger than 30 who are incomers, therefore, in the VAT system. So one strictly targeted group, it's not a lot of people, we can't do that for the cobwebs because they're not in the VAT system, they pay very small taxes according to the receipts, so they wouldn't have as much as possible to cut it down, it's up to 80,000 kuna income per year 1200 kuna tax, so it's really some of the smallest part because it's so popular. That's where I'm gonna look back on just one other part of the cobwebs. So that's something I think we should think about. Also when we talk about young people then we talk about professional training, I think it would be good to include them, and I will also submit an amendment for untaxed givings to enable those in vocational training, so today they do not have the right to Christmas, regression or employee rewards and anything else that belongs to them as other workers. There, too, we must find a solution especially if I am well aware of the announcements that there will be no more of this next year. Then it really is, for at least these existing ones who now sign for a year something they too can feel because de facto they are not paid by an employer but by a state. So something the employer might choose to give them as a reward would certainly be convenient. What we've touched here that I would certainly like to address is an amendment to the general tax law relating to the so-called so-called. The flat-rate twists where we actually introduce certain instruments that are not currently defined but that will be defined by the rules there would really like to define it not wide but really narrowly, that those who really play and there is no dispute if someone opened the flat so it has a connected company so it extracts financial benefits and less taxes over it, it absolutely does. Also if someone constantly changes those organizational forms a little... , a little bit of paushale and shifts some of the business to one and the other, but as far as work is concerned for a certain employer, that the level that will be assessed in relation to the characteristics of unsustainable work to be really just and only if, the financial aspect is the only income, if it really does not change anything, if a man is sitting there, gets directions, orders, etc., that these are really all cumulatively fulfilled, not just one of them, because once again, in the case of pausal crafts, let's not punish those who willingly gave up the day off, the yearly, the sick, the regress, the Christmases, the untaxable giving, the protection of the Labour Act, the cancelled deadline, so that all of these institutions that guarantee you the Labour Act they knowingly leave so that they would naturally and reduce their contributions and their pensions, again, have been more likely to the labour market, and the more likely. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to respect that, it's freedom of choice, and that's what we're going to insist on, so I'm saying that if something is thrown out, but it has to be not either-or-or but-and rather tightly tied up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175398	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175399	Thank you very much, and we are done with taking a stand and we are going back to our point and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Youth will be the first to speak to the respected representative Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175400	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed representatives of the Ministry of Finance, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing a set of laws here whether we call it a mini reform or a continuation of reform, a systematic reform, which is certain that none of us will probably say something dramatic, find problematic in these items that are here. I consider them positive. It means something the ministry suggested would make a certain discharge. A crucial debate should actually be whether the discharge intensity is sufficient to make a certain change. I can understand the position of the Ministry of Finance, which looking at the total, primarily on the revenue side of the budget will consider how much budget revenues are reduced, whether the balance sheet of state finances is then sustainable, whether they can cover expenditures, whether they will show surpluses, whether they are achieving Plenkovic's objectives to enter the euro zone in order to through all of this, means a number of mechanisms that affect the possibility of adopting the key changes that the ministry and the finance minister would propose to us with their co-workers. Therefore, I will say, however, that this is a change that is acceptable to the Ministry of Finance in the context of budget revenue consideration, but I would point out that Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs expect stronger procedures because the numerous examples and practices that are happening in Croatia show that without such a strong shift in fiscal policy, we will not be able to make a sustainable state primarily on the labour market, and this will also affect a number of economic flows in the country. Perhaps someone who is still in the developed part of Croatia, such as the capital of Zagreb or some other position, does not feel it yet because there is a spilling of labour from other parts of Croatia towards such centres, but we MPs who come from the most demographically threatened area feel the fall, one economic downturn is already experiencing a sense of the imperceptibility of further investment which, which has opened the effect, opened our membership in the EU, the possibility for Croatian citizens to go to work in other EU countries, and there are no expectations of strong support through European funds that will create new added value, which will create stronger local markets in such endangered areas, which will allow products that are emerging, primary products or raw materials in those areas to have their own processing component and to close one cycle. That would strengthen the whole internal market. So I'm going to go through a little bit like this, to comment on these proposals, and I've already said through the replica of the minister that it really needs to be kept in mind that Croatian entrepreneurs are being taken, and if they see within the legal solutions that the government is proposing, and the ruling majority adopts that there is a possibility of finding a place to increase their incomes or reduce their expenditures, primarily tax ones will use that model. We can't blame anyone for what they're using. One thing is when it's positive, in a way that the entrepreneur creates an environment, economic development, respects his workers, and then through the savings that allow legal solutions, he creates his own progress then we could say yes, it's a positive practice. What we most often have is that there are negative phenomena and then entrepreneurs avoid paying their taxes to the state but not only to avoid to the state but also to their employees and to the environment, the community they live in, and then we have one negative phenomenon. I also warned at that time that it happens to us that companies are using the possibility of establishing a connected person or even companies to use the possibility of setting up simple companies with limited liability and within one business year to carry out an illegal transaction which in principle looks legal but essentially leads to their closing business and trying within the same year through a shortened bankruptcy procedure to avoid questioning all links with other companies. I had a question about the Vinkovec water industry that rented their own machines through a series of such companies to themselves on the second construction site in Croatia, it was a bit of a fuss, of course over time it all disappeared but it shows that sometimes it should be thought that opportunities, legal opportunities, are not being misused and that I would, if efficiency would rise, have given support just to amend the general tax law which recognises that entrepreneurs can abuse such opportunities. A lot of public space has been talked about dispensing the work of young people and there is a lot of information that is positive, there is also something that belongs to the domain of disinformation. Of course, we are all discussing the young people and the club from which I come is taking up the rights of young people, so they will support this measure, although of course we would like to see how the legislator sees the development of this particular measure, whether this measure will really keep young people from staying on their own to stay where they have been educated in the Croatian state, to see their perspective and can financially calculate it, now we are monitoring these events about the demands of teachers where they are, through all these negotiations, talks, percentages, coefficients, in fact, looking for some 1000 kunas more on the salary they have, let's say on average, while the government has offered a maximum of 500 kuna. Somehow a man always looks at, okay, what I mean by a percentage of this or one or who's going to give me, through which form, in which way, rather than how much in the end it's to me. Whether 1,000 kuna is enough for such work, I don't know, but those who work in that job, who are teachers, who work with children who are asking for 1000 kuna, probably have a valid reason to stand firm behind it and to keep this up during this time of year, communicate and try to strike that which they have launched, to come out of some right. But why is it against them if we have a prime minister who every time he comes to this assembly and through his interviews in the media, he says the state of the country is great? To make progress, to have the biggest GDP growth, to fill the budget is good, then of course those who think they are underpaid or where they have difficulties in any form of their work or business, are therefore looking for greater rights. Here, it was debated that certain rates were reduced and the revenue side was growing from those positions of the budget. And then we can just say one thing, okay, if you're making such a good income, then give an extra discharge, help more and more, that's not the goal of reducing some rate, so you've increased the revenue of the budget, so you say we've reduced some of your donations and we're all happy, we've got bigger budgeting, but we forget that sometimes it's the full satisfaction of everyone's goals and not that we have certain groups that are very satisfied, we have others who are very unhappy, and then here we bring even society into the debate whether teachers have a right or not, whether children will lose their education if they don't attend school during a certain time, whether it affects holidays and a number of other issues that they impose on themselves, and I also ask for young people, when this measure is applied, really means its effect will be visible only in the return of taxes, whether all young people will be satisfied. And those who begin, who have the lowest wages, how much will they feel? It's going to be 100 kuna, 200 kuna, 300 kuna or someone will tell you, but that's 1,000 kuna? So if teachers are looking for 1,000 kuna, do the young ones get 1,000 kuna? Let's see what those salaries have to do with young people. Now, this information about how much the state budget is going to lose, believe that any young person is irrelevant, imaginary, can't experience it, but is expecting it at what job he thinks he's going to get, to see if someone offered him 5,000 kuna, some net salary, how much do I end up getting through these measures? If I get 100, 200 kuna, then I'm just as unhappy or just as happy as I was and now you haven't taken a step that will give me a reason to stay here. So dealing with large numbers isn't something young people expect but want to see themselves, their pay, sort of their calculations. The profit tax, the increase of the threshold from 3 to 7.5 million kuna for a rate of 12, of course the discharge is there, we have to be honest, it's one discharge that will cover all those who make the profit. So if we create an environment, that everyone realizes and has a good opportunity, in our market they make a profit, then it's being maintained, but here I've just been doing it during the day and I've been looking at the business of companies, companies that have the majority state property, so when I see data there, I'm kind of wondering, and what is the fate of private entrepreneurs if the state can't manage its businesses in quality. What does this rate mean for a person with difficulty in business? Very little. How many of us have these successful ones, how many will actually take advantage of these possibilities, and in preparation, I got the question, how do we recognize the workers, through their release. And the man lists me to a whole series of companies in my county that have double-paying work, one is that legal model that the tax administration tracks, where it's visible all, where they get something more than someone minimumer, something a little more, and they get another part of the payout that's black-on-hand. And then we need to ask ourselves, and through these tax reforms that were going on, if we haven't been able to influence that entrepreneurs are going to legally report their entire business, then tax reform hasn't touched the depth of the problem yet. If the entrepreneur shows his income, all possible incomes and insights, he is afraid that the state would significantly tax him that it is simply disproportionate and goes in the direction of business on black, then we failed, we failed to indicate to our entrepreneurs that this risk of black business is something that is unacceptable if the rates are small. And maybe there's also a search for a solution, let's be so small and radical sometimes, positively radical we cut and impose on profit, I know that the profit of the state budget is significant, let's cut that down so we can see how much traffic that real traffic is, what real traffic has our economy. Because we'll always be statistical in some kind of mistake, we'll always say there's a black market. Of course I'm not a utopian because I say everything on black will disappear, but if a number of companies are listed only in one county that pays their workers a part of the salary on black, then it's certain that there is a significant problem. And a significant problem is for the institutions of the state that need to disclose such cases, which should be dealt with. Therefore, such a reduction in the rate, an increase in the threshold may even need to be strengthened and ask for exactly that measure to see how far our entrepreneurs will actually show double business and thus endanger both the future and the workers who through these wages they receive on black do not get a chance to have a pension from which they will be able to live normally at their age. The reduction of VAT to 13% for preparing and serving meals to catering facilities should contribute primarily to increasing traffic, the sustainability of some facilities lower, I hope that our citizens will also have sufficient resources through their revenues to go to restaurants. Because when we speak, here it is now mentioned here in the free speech the possibility of a working week that, with more and more entrepreneurs themselves, is portrayed as a solution to labour problems. If you have a rough Sunday then that doesn't mean that the person who prepares the food, whether it's a woman or a husband, should use that Sunday to cook and spend all that time on it than we should just tell her then here we go to raise the standard that the family can go somewhere further into the catering facility to enjoy the food. Then it's a real day off, so maybe this 13% reduction will be real too. A non-alcoholic drink according to the share of sugar, we're talking about the inexplicability of the offer, actually demand, and then the question is whether a little coke will be less sold if we do this. Here, but generally some of these proposals have our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175401	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175402	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state, associates, related to this package of 9 laws, should say that every boss, every good businessman, saves money when he has, every good businessman, every good boss invests when he has. This package of laws goes towards making a certain tax discharge, however it does not follow that step further, which is to be proactive in terms of supporting the growth of the economy, agriculture and cheaper and more quality lives of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Because the fact is that tax revenues have grown and this has grown at a rate of 1.3% and remains an impression when you talk to economic representatives that there is still too much tax pressure and administrative pressure on the economy in the Republic of Croatia and instead of taking advantage of this opportunity that positive economic movements, that they are positively full budgets, that they have surpluses in the state budget then a more serious reduction in the cost side could be considered. Because the fact that somewhere over 400,000 are employed in the public sector, that it is more than 10% of the total population, and we like to compare ourselves with successful countries such as Germany, where somewhere around 5% of the population in the public sector and what we constantly seek to have an efficient administration, that we have a quality service to citizens through the service of our citizens can do anything and the owners only 30 to 35% gain through e-service while it is in Germany 85%, while there has been no reduction in the number of employees in public administration. In crisis years, the Republic of Croatia has remained somewhere in the economy for over 100,000 jobs, while the number of employees has increased in the public administration. So the question to be asked on behalf of all citizens on behalf of all taxpayers is how many employees in the Republic of Croatia are in ministries, agencies, state-owned enterprises and other bodies because they pay all of this from their own tax income, they and their employers. It is simply that disproportionate between the number of employees and the number of employees and the number of those who should continue to provide public service through state bodies to those citizens and the economy. There's no more serious involvement in that part, and there's no serious cost cuts, and then this excess capital that's coming, the extra money that's coming into the state budget is being invested, you know where? Well, rema to target groups because this is the budget that we adopted should be said to be a pre-election budget, to satisfy the interests of those groups that are considered to vote that this government and this minister would remain in power, which is simply what it is, but it is not good, because we need to think that the crisis will come and most of the EU economy announces that the crisis is already a little present. And that's what our exporters see because they already have a reduced number of orders for some products that they planned and increased and that says there's a crisis at the door, and we're still living on some kind of take-off on that wave of increased tax revenues and we're spending it as drunk millionaires. So we need to take the cost side more seriously and see how best to invest that tax kuna to create a society where everyone has the same chance and to create a society in which the economy can grow. And to create conditions to strengthen the market and business position of businessmen in the depressed areas of Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, Lici, Dalmatinska Zagorje because what we do through these tax measures is part of these measures and is not enough and reflects on the total economy, on all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. And never the one from Županje or the one from Konavala can catch up with this one from Zagreb and Varazdin because it is not the same business 200km from Zagreb or in Zagreb itself where the headquarters of all European companies and where the costs of business are certainly lower. This government does not think about it, it is not seen from the measure that it has targeted measures for target groups for targeted areas. There are some other resolutions and ministries of support measures, but this is not enough to stop this demographic problem and move out of Slavonia, Like and other undeveloped areas. And we are constantly talking about this, but these policies and these reforms do not show that anything more serious has happened but simply needs to satisfy the pressure of political groups, targeted groups of whom are expected to vote to remain in power. Just how long? It won't go on forever and it's not good to think like that. And that's why I'm saying that every boss, every good host when they have savings and then they're thinking about where to invest so they can have more tomorrow. This government, this minister doesn't do it. And here is an example of the Value Added Tax Act where the minister boasts with increased income and growth is significant from VAT tax revenues. However, it is necessary to tell the truth that a good part of these revenues is achieved from imports of imported goods. We did not give an impasse to help through all these measures that have so far been taken by domestic production, especially agricultural production, is all the statistical indicators talking about the decline in pig meat production, the decline in milk production, the decline in fruit production, vegetables and not counting further. I don't know if we have a segment of growth. Why is that? Well, because it only went with the segmental support of this group, this sector through a section of agricultural and food products where VAT was reduced from 25% to 13%. And then we said it wasn't enough, that in the environment the VAT rate on those same or such products was lower. You have examples that for groups of these products are agricultural-food in France VAT 5%, in Bavaria there is 5% and in our neighbouring BiH there is 10%. And we asked for VAT to be reduced to agricultural and food products to make our agricultural production competitive. And our proposal here and in the first debate was to come up with what the target products in Croatia are and to reduce the VAT rate to 5%. The government did not accept that, the finance minister pledged at the time when the third round of tax reform was that the part still produced by agricultural and food products would be considered to reduce VAT and how to lower the rate if the state budget is available. We now see that the state budget is able and that the expansion of this group of products to which VAT would be reduced would not jeopardise significantly the income of the Republic of Croatia, however, it is obviously not in the interest of anyone in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to produce in Slavonia, Baranja in Srijem to produce agricultural products and to generate income from domestic production, to generate income from VAT on domestic products, but it is obviously easier to raise imports and import lobbys and some groups that advocate such a model and the fact that VAT revenues have increased, but I will repeat they have grown mostly on products and production of foreign countries, foreign producers, foreign products. Another detail here should also point out that a good part of our fellow citizens is such purchasing power that they cannot buy these products in Croatia but unfortunately go shopping where it is cheaper in neighbouring countries, BiH, Serbia, Slovenia and Hungary and beyond. And I asked last time, and I will repeat the question, whether the Ministry of Finance, the state of information on how far this traffic has been achieved in BiH or Serbia. There are already significant amounts, I've been researching and I've received some of this data, and I'm going to collect more, and then I'm going to get out with that information, a significant part of the income, a significant part of the tax revenue, that's how the Republic of Croatia loses. Why did we not assess what products our citizens are buying, how much tax burden in Croatia on these products, as much as in BiH, so they reacted? No, no, it's a lot of work or someone's not interested. I don't think it's much of a job anymore if it's not an interest in this ministry, this government, and it's certainly not good, and our fellow citizens are forced for their purchasing power, because of preserving their family's standards to go shopping outside Croatia, and we're just looking at these columns at the border both in the Old City and in Slavonski Brod and at Župa and beyond. And I think that we should seriously consider reducing VAT on agricultural and food products, we have put forward a proposal to be 5%, and even has a part of the product where, specifically, when it comes to agricultural production, it would be good and to introduce a zero rate because it is not enough just to reduce VAT on inputs, raw meat, on feed, etc., it should also be on a finished product for our agricultural product to be competitive and to support our agricultural producer so that it can finance that production. Also, when it comes to profit tax, I reiterate the need to introduce tax reliefs for profit-reinvested entrepreneurs in areas where emigration is present, where a large number of people are jobless and I think it would certainly contribute to the employment and remnant of young people in that area, but here, this government has abolished that tax relief and I see no reason why it would not return it because it would certainly help economic recovery. Also, it is not good to have the largest share of the profits achieved, the tax pays towards the company's headquarters, and most of the company is registered here in Zagreb and other cities, and they have their own businesses in both Slavonia and Lica and where that income is achieved, that, and the environments get nothing back from it. When it comes to support for young people, we welcome this to dissipate young people and to enable them in this way of employment, but we have pointed out that it is not good for it to be only up to 30 years. Our proposal was to expand it to 35 years because if we want our young people to study high schools, colleges, to finish them, then we give them a chance to after they graduate college, which is usually 24, 25 years old, they can enjoy these tax breaks for at least 10 years because it takes them 10 years to get a job, buy an apartment, buy a car, get a child, surely these 5 years are not enough stimulating measures and think about it, but here, this government has rejected our proposal. When it comes to excise duties, especially this part of the fuel, we believe that one part of these excise duties should be over 60% of the fuel tax goes into the state budget should be allocated to local self-government units, back and that is already several times in the community of municipalities of cities commented, that this part of the excise duty should be returned to them both as income and infrastructure, but also to support the creation of new jobs. So targeted for such measures, and this would contribute to the remnant of young people in these areas because, with all the facts that they have increased their incomes will not reach a larger investment cycle, they do not have money for the EU projects but have spent it, because they have to prepare, co-finance and lack funds, and this would be one of the models that could help local self-government units. Of course there's no state development without investing in education. If he does not invest in those who are holders of knowledge and education, teachers, teachers and teachers, then we cannot expect a better future of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we at HSS are in favour and we're asking this government to finally end the strike because it can, that students go to school tomorrow and increase their coefficients to teachers, teachers and teachers for those 6.11%) because that's only about 350 million kuna. If it's not for them, I don't know who it'll be for tomorrow. As for the support of the economy, I have already pointed out, you have rejected the amendment of the 200 million kuna to Đura Djakovic's recapitalisation. Now you have a strike again, a payoff, and that's a shame. Only the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture has reduced the budget, and here Europe responds to agriculture, the 27.11. Regulation is published, 467m euros are given to farmers for not paying all direct payments in the crisis, and Croatia has reduced 600 million kuna to our agricultural producers and has refused the HSS and SDP amendment to pay them back. Well, now you have an example from Europe, so bring it back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175403	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of IDS, PGS and RI in the name of which they will speak a respected representative of Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175404	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry. My colleagues and colleagues. Today, there was a lot of talk about this package of laws about education, about the current situation, and from my point of view, some colleagues used an inappropriate term in the context of politics in relation to the situation. Today, we have an intellectual community dissatisfied, on the streets that primarily points out and not puts pay among the priorities but their status in society and the conditions in which they work and operate. Investment in education is investing in the future, investing tomorrow in the development of the state, and when someone uses the term politics is actually blind. These aren't tents, these aren't gas bottles this is much stronger, what this state has in intellectual capacity is definitely the most powerful. Today, parents who are fighting for their existence because of the hasty life, ways and style of work, in fact, all of us together do not see as a society that these teachers are not only teaching our children, but that our children are in the good part and raising them. And now the question is whether we have the strength to admit that from the independence of the Republic of Croatia we have not created a regulated system in any area. Do we have the strength to admit all those mistakes that have been happening and whether we have the power to invest energy at the point of understanding. To achieve this, we need a leader, to achieve it, we need a vision. And now I'm going to try to get through this package of laws to show that only through a few examples of left-hand ones does not know what the right-hand one is doing and that the finance minister can neither, nor is he able to solve a number of accumulated problems in this society. The finance minister is primarily in charge of the stability of public finances. The stability of public finances without consensual amendments to the laws in other ministries, in other resolutions without clear enforceable measures and with this package of laws will not give effect. This package of laws, without the Law on city financing, municipality and county is not complete. It is not all because every discharge proposed by this government, proposed by the state level, is always overrun by the financial burden of municipalities and cities, which directly reduces the standard of the citizens themselves living in these municipalities and in these cities. Many statesmen have realised centuries ago that from one centre of government, it is managed at the level closest to the citizens. Many EU members, successful countries that have least felt the global crisis, which have the biggest economic growth, have realised that without functional and fiscal decentralisation, there is no response to the crisis or progress. Decentralisation or autonomy of the management of financial resources means that incomes are created to the greatest extent and remain, but that these units of local self-government incomes are generated in the state budget for the normal functioning of the state, from the security elements and everything else, that funds are also paid into the state budget for those areas and those areas where the need is incorporated and the social component, but most of the income should remain where it is achieved. decentralisation means the autonomy of resource management, and when we talk about resource management, we have a completely absurd situation in which I spoke much more in detail about half an hour ago, but I'm going to go over it and say that the government knows how to manage its assets, the situation in the state budget would be much more favourable. State bodies don't know what property they own, nor do they know how to manage their property. I'm asking you, every single person who owns the company and that you own an enormous property, and that the person in that company who's in charge of managing that same property, and that based on that property, enormously, there's only a 10% contribution, what would you do with that person? They would immediately replace it, and what if you had a person who knew how to manage this enormous property, they would have additional income and then we could talk about investments in new added value, and investment in new added value is other than modern infrastructure as a prerequisite, investing in new technologies and creating and investing in a whole new system of science, education, based on modern age. The era of digital revolution, green technologies, individual freedoms and responsibilities. Then we wouldn't have the consequences of what's happening today in our society, because these are just colleagues and colleagues' consequences, and the cause actually lies as I said before in the lack of psychicism, in the lack of vision. In the absence of targets set where we want to be in 20, 30 years. The cause lies in the irresponsible management of the state and its own resources. With the responsibility of managing state property and governance autonomy at regional level, local level today would not be a topic of whether enough money for the salaries of educational workers is enough money to invest in the full modernisation of school and scientific institutions. After all, if it's enough money for our state budget to have more revenue than expenditure. Instead of such responsible management of state property, we have on the other hand a completely absurd situation, where the state takes incomprehensible actions, that it takes away property of municipalities and cities, and it does not know how to manage them. Only these examples prove that at the government level, there is no agreed strategy among the ministries that provides clear answers to current, serious issues in our society, on the issue of demographics, education, health situations, justice as well as many others. And I'm going to finish, the finance minister can't solve a number of accumulated problems, he's in charge of stability of public finances, but that there's non-coordination within the government that's a fact. I'll end up both colleagues and colleagues next. When we know an external enemy as it was in the Homeland War, we are all unique and could respond to such a terrible and difficult challenge. Today when we live in a time of peace, current social difficult problems are present here, is it really possible that in a peaceful situation we don't all have the strength to invest energy in the points that bring us together, to be constructive, to make our contribution that people who work in education today, who expect people who work in the real sector. I repeat, the solution is both in leadership and in vision and in investing energy in those points that bring us together. If only in this term we had solved two areas of this assembly, and this government would have been a successful government. A successful government is also a pride for me who is part of the opposition because I want to show respect through a responsible approach to contribute to solving those issues and those problems. How we acted on the previous budget and this year's budget shows that we are far from it. People live in peace, we invest in energy, let's not argue and a lot of populistism and a lot more responsibility please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175405	Thank you. We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first to appear is Honored Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175406	Thank you very much. The colleagues and respected co-workers of Minister Marić who are not present here, but of course this fourth overall, was the first complete, second full, third overall and now we have a fourth full tax reform, I would start here from the right reforms and make proposals, so I would make proposals, and one of the main proposals is what is holding back our system and what could be improved both by the budget and by reducing VAT and full meaning and the possibility of making it easier for our citizens from entrepreneurs to education, police, military, means everything to work. We have a problem in the system, we have a systemic problem, and that's the problem with excess management. division of the Republic of Croatia in the management system, and these are the counties. I'm curious, here's what I'm proposing to the Minister to remove the county immediately, so he'll see by calculating how much money he has left for health care, which he centralizes, how much money he has left for school, how much money he has left for the farmers, how much money he has left for our citizens, for our local self-government, and this is how we've created a surplus. So it's county, I know when I'm running for mayor my only program was that I'm gonna fight to lift the county, I'd really show that they're unnecessary, because only decentralised money that goes down is transferred to mayors and mayors who are loyal to mayors i.e. who act mostly behind the Lex Sheriff like the Pharaohs. And that's one for, Nucleus basically to control party and voting machines. Croatia is a rescue right away, as soon as it comes to spending how much the secretaries would be saving you can say that you abolish the counties, how many fewer party employees, how many fewer of these levels, means the Ministry of Finance decentralises the funds for health care, then that health care comes money into the county and then the county employs 10 lawyers in the home of health, 15 of these least for the specialization of doctors, for diagnostic equipment, and therefore we have a broken medical system and never worse health services regardless of the economic growth you are calling for. And economic growth is solely because of what you've moved out of the government, if you're going to listen to what you've moved out of our Croats, I've been saying it for days, you wanted it, Minister Maric and the Prime Minister to cover it up until it came out in the media and when it was a budget, I'm saying they were saying it was my push-ups, the prime minister was saying. 5% of GDP is out of reach and I'll say that. And the key move because we have, in 2/3 of Croatia, we have no organised health care, never worse, and we have no education. It's a fact, the fact is, it's the fact that the county's excess and that it's not a county and that it's not a party nuclearus, you control everything from school to cleaning room. That's a good point. Ivan Nasic when he was a member of this administrative body of the Split-Dalmatia County home of health, when he said without the prime minister, he could not hire a cleaning woman, a porter, when the video came out. So you control the system for the sole purpose of party and schooling, and you should talk about how one should control education, money, employment, administration, how it is solved. Therefore, I think the trialo on this spending-side abolished counties they are excess. We are a small state, not a tribune of so many counties, so many employees, many mayors, the Pharaohs are special these little kingdoms that simply spend money in this way. So, I'm sorry that there's no minister here here, that it wouldn't be if we didn't make any proposals, I'm interested in the secretary to get me out of the calculation of how much savings would be, and not only that, you're now also transferring the state administration under county control, and the counties are a key problem and brake development, a key problem. I'll repeat it again, I'll repeat it 1,000 times just from the Dalmatian burn since the county founded 100,000 people came out, only 100,000 went away and, of course, these people are now sending money to their families and you're boasting about economic growth. That's one of those measures. Of course the policy determines what kind of system this system is, this system is so tuned that simply when in matters in the replica of Minister Marić, which I say tell me which forecasts this year are how much you will get from the remittances from the abroad of our citizens that you have deliberately evicted as well as in the 1960s, it is empty, two-thirds of Croatia are empty, he says it follows the CNB. Whatever National Bank which Croatian Bank. They are to blame for everything that is happening in matters of monetary stability, in terms of the functioning of the state. Nor do they do what neatly the CNB requires waiters and chefs who know how to make wine with low-down fish, quality white wines, black wines, and that's what matters to them and that the uncontrollable CNBs are. Statistically run by the Croatian Bank. Well, my Minister Maric, so how do you follow how much money he's going to be in GDP is it affecting taxes? Of course that money's being spent. It'll be like a fisherman's pleasure, finger-to-mouth, then watch where he's going to take the wind, so he doesn't have to say any projections. How much this year, 2019, will already be able to see how much money our citizens who have been deliberately evicted, again, willfully evicted to remain only a party base employed by the county and that structure, and therefore we have chaos. So it's a real reform, it's a real reform. The abolished county of Croatia is not such a state as to have such mayors, such as Pharaohs. You can still get them the lex sheriff law. Of course you won't do it or have the strength to do it to free up education, so teachers have bigger salaries, so doctors have specializations, to have better trained police, more invested in our police system in the military system, and all the RS needs is that we have receipts. Of course, when I look at these reforms and then I look at the increase of the base from 3... to 4 then I wonder once again, I wonder because the prime minister is always invited to the EU you can tell him everything to the prime minister, but don't just criticise the EU. Brojo, you're gonna have to cut yourself like that cat when he sees a chicken, you can tell him anything but the EU, don't criticise it. And I'm curious why in Croatia the cashier doesn't have the same salary as in Austria if she works in the same store as the owner? If he's the same owner, why? And this foreign product is much more expensive in the Republic of Croatia than in Austria. That's what I want to know. I would like to know what you've taken in this matter, that our people stay here, not that... times we have bigger salaries in Austria, if we are the EU, if we call on the EU. It's not funny, it's facts of life. So you have two-thirds of Croatia empty, and you boast about economic growth. Croatia has been evicted, targetedly evicted, but you were told that the same donkey is waiting for grass to grow, too. So go down to the people outside these lights and out of the lights of Brussels, and you will see that the villages are empty, and you will see that the fires have been extinguished. They refer to funds, to European funds, please, to agriculture that are easier for farmers when we no longer have agriculture. Which will make it easier? Now the foreigners will buy you this and they can buy you agricultural land from 2020. So make one cut, here I suggest one. Cancel the county, they're unnecessary, I repeat, unnecessary. They are exclusively needed to control employees to hire people who will be exclusively voting machines otherwise would never have received the elections. And on the other hand, everyone who doesn't have a party card, no matter who's in power in that county, HDZ or SDP, in my HDZ, has to move out and have to pay by hand, and they pay you, and they have no right to vote. You're not ready to give these people an electronic or correspondence vote. Make one reform and it'll be the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175407	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Emil Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175408	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I had to react, you know, dear fellow Bull, not all countys are the same. There are some olives that are defenseless, and there should be an olive region number one in the world. Incidentally or not, I come from that place and it's called Istrian. But there the strategy was made 20, 25 years ago in which direction it was going. You need to look differently at the whole point of things, be responsible and call for responsibility, not to be politicized. And imagine where we'd be if we were decentralised. And there is one more thing in Istria County: solidarity, solidarity of the rich coast towards the humble interior of Istria. It is not necessary to remove the counties but to invest and choose a quality fit to manage the counties as well as other public institutions. Here I had to react even though I don't see how much this is about tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175409	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175410	I will never agree because HDZ is in Split-Dalmatia County in most counties and SDP in individual so-called IDS in Istria. I believe and know where I come from, and it's so likely that you'd have more developed Istria if it weren't for the county, much more developed Istria would be. And you control everything just as it controls from employment to everything, to concessions of maritime good, you control everything. Without you can't do anything, you need to be abolished like any county. The county's something unnecessary, they're excess, they're trust me to scream. You've evicted the people for the county, the people have been evicted for the counties, the people, exclusively the people. There's nothing we can do without you. Well, we literally won't even be able to go to church without you without your approval. You're the ones who control life and death and job and layoffs, all controlled by mayors and counties, everything. I'm telling you, the only real reform is the abolition of the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175411	Thank you very much. I would draw everyone's attention just to look at the papers that are in front of them and the laws we're discussing because it seems to me that someone who accidentally turned on the TV or listens to what we're talking about wouldn't understand what laws we're talking about, so I'm asking everyone to commit ourselves to the subject of these laws. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175412	Thank you very much, Vice President. Chairman, you have injured Rule 238, so please write to us a second time as Prime Minister Plenkovic writes, before Karamarko or Kosorica or Sanader, which we will speak to parliamentary representatives. You won't do that to me or you can't, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175413	But I'm going to give you a warning now because you abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Yes, I'm giving you a warning. [[I don't understand.]] The individual debate will now be held by a respected representative, Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, respected colleagues and colleagues and especially welcome you fellow citizens who follow us. As we know, there is a growing lack of confidence in the Parliament, why, as we can see, there are always 10% of elected deputies here, which is unfortunate and the ruling party has presented today the fourth round of tax reform. So hypothetically if they were in power for 10 years, we would be discussing the 10th round of tax reform today. So, this is neither tax reform nor anything from the party change Croatia we have made an analysis, our experts, of this proposal so-called. The fourth round and I will make the most important observations here, but as you know, we on the side of Change Croatia always go out with arguments and I will make some constructive proposals here that this government and the Proposer can use for the benefit of all citizens. I hope that at least some of this will be adopted. What is not good is that the government's economic policy is, unfortunately, reduced to only one narrow segment, which is tax policy. So no industrial policy talks, no monetary policy talks, no labour market talks, no regional development, new technologies, etc., and so on, but always a new round of tax reform. Viewed pragmatically, PR means from the sphere of political marketing, this is good, why? Because whenever a government announces a new round of tax reform, people count on percentages, whether they get a little something, whether they lose and people have fun with it, and they're actually worried, they're worried. Now I have no intention of criticizing here, there are too many criticisms and not only that, but the citizens are bitter. I can't listen to any more wild criticism without anyone suggesting anything meaningful. So here in front of the party let's change Croatia I submitted four amendments to these proposals. The first amendment refers to an increase in the non-taxable wage. The government has proposed that the untaxable part of the salary from 3800 kuna increase to 4000 kuna. Well, please, it's insignificant changes. These are insignificant changes, but it looks like the style of this government and Prime Minister Plenkovic, increase 2+2 edifice, give these others nothing, so give the crumbs to those who work and who are pillars of this society such as education and education, such as health care system, give them crumbs, but no one thinks or wonders why this government pays 8.5 billion kuna to banks and funds on government debt interest and should pay a maximum of 4.5 billion. So 4 billion kuna can be saved and then, without any problem, all demands of workers in education and health care can be met and pensioners, pensioners and pensioners, of course, will be increased. Now, what do we propose? We suggest that the untaxed part of the income so-called. personal deduction, to increase from 3800 kuna to 7500 kuna. At 7500 kuna. These are respected colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens, these are real, rooted changes. Why? Well, the only thing that can turn this difficult situation around is that people stay here, take less from their pay, and what would the state or the state budget on the other hand get? When the worker remains more, so if we do not tax him, 7500 personal deductions will be, so he will be left with much more money and he will spend that money on buying various goods and the good part will return to a sustainable form of VAT and the producers will be more producing goods and services. So that's why this is a good proposal, adopt it, it's supported by all the workers in this country. The second amendment is related, concerns our request for corporate fissalization, means all VAT debtors. Who today, what is the meaning of this decision? You see, today the manufacturer, for example, delivers for 100,000 kunas to goods to a wholesale mall that sells further means in retail. 100 000 kunas are worth goods plus 25 000 kuna VAT and he must pay for about a month at the latest means VAT to the state and on average he will charge for the best case in 2.3 months. The invoice and the trade chain will only be paid to the state of VAT for a month afterwards. So this is where the shopping malls got involved, those damages to both the producers and the state, and they're being financed by that little producer that's the hardest one anyway. I ask the business community, the people who listen to this exhibit, to support such a request, this is a reasonable request. Why? Let VAT pay only the final obligor who sells to someone who is not in the VAT system. In this case, with the full application of the fiscalisation we are also looking for, the daily tax administration will have the state of payment, payment, means VAT and will not have to submit a report on VAT at the monthly level. But why won't this proposal be adopted? Well, because right there, you have companies that are founded today just to do crime, not to pay, to avoid paying VAT. When we get into a situation, if God does, in the next election from the party, change Croatia, this is exactly what we, dear citizens, are going to do and no one else is going to know right away every day who's keeping the tax, yeah, he's issued the invoice, he's looking for that invoice, and there's no tampering with the invoices. That's the story you've never heard before, so this is our solution. In that context, in that context, and there's no more, there's nothing to do or DORH, etc., actually there is, if he realizes that's the case and that's it. Now, what do we do next? It's called a tax transfer. She exists as such, but you know who the user is? Just certain contractors, the sector, and maybe someone else. No, they have to use everyone. You ask grandmothers and maids to fiscalize them, they have to show, and those big ones who mess with hundreds of millions and billions, they don't get touched, and that's what's going to change, and that's the only thing that's going to change Croatia. 3. The amendment refers to your proposal to release the income tax entirely from young workers up to 25 years of life and 50% to between 25-30%. Oh, guys, don't get complicated. Give 100% exemption from income tax to meaning, in the age group of up to 30 years. Up to 30 years old. You do this kind of discrimination, it's counter-constitutional, and someone's gonna challenge it. So, introduce up to 30 percent, no one pays that young people, meaning in the fertilized profit of the so-called. Let's keep it in Croatia. What is further proposed by the parties Let's change Croatia. We're suggesting that the next thing I know, I forgot to say this. I asked for an answer to the tax administration's parliamentary questions and after eight months finally got it, I thank you for your answers. However, I did not learn anything from these answers that I could not read, and the questions were very clear, and I will talk about it in particular. I asked how many unpaid taxes there are, how many unpaid taxes there are, the answers are 28 billion kuna. I repeat, 28 billion. As much as you've written off your tax due to antiquity or something, I haven't gotten an answer to that question, it's billions of dollars so far. I asked how many profit taxes were not paid by foreign trade chains, they told me it was a business secret. It's not a business secret, our analytical team, it's available data, we'll analyse and dear citizens, we'll keep you informed, you'll be literally shocked to hear that they don't pay taxes on profits. This is not subject to tax secrets, so don't put individuals on a tax pole if you do, publish all the data because there's no tax secret for those who are, which means, that don't behave properly. And in the end, therefore, the tax system, the changes don't solve these countries, they entertain us because we have to We need to make radical changes already. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175415	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175416	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, dear fellow Lovrinović, I believe that it is not tax reform if 20 billion kunas are collected more, if we are being bred by craftsmen, entrepreneurs under the burden of tax duties, if our agriculture falls in all sectors, if by all indications, we are all at the bottom of the EU, we have been overrun by both Romania and Hungary and Poland and the Czech Republic, countries that have been far behind us. It is also bad tax reform when we get 350 thousand people out of Croatia with a bread belly and this is tax reform, i.e. One in a series of reforms that could call survival reforms in HDZ authorities by buying chips and coalition partners. Here, it's the only tax reform, the goal probably because this collection of these funds makes this possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175417	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175418	Thank you for asking, colleague Lenart. You see, when the geese are running too far, they're growling, and when you're corrupting Croatian taxpayers, they're silent. It's a real phenomenon. I don't know what else we need to be done, so here's what I support all in the field, let's change Croatia, but we need to get to the bottom of these problems. It's not a reform. Therefore, Croatia has one of the largest tax presses in Europe, these are Eurostat indicators, it is quite clear, there has been no disbursement of nine billion kunas that have been bombarding us for a year. On the contrary, the share of taxes in GDP when you cumulatively count, it has increased. My people, we have to tell the truth once to the citizens, but tell the truth that we have people who know how to solve these problems, but until we get rid of people who work for themselves, for stakeholders, who don't work for public good. We'll never get out of it. [[Thank you very much, next...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175419	Replication response. Excuse me. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175420	Honorable Vice President, respected ministry representatives, Your Honor. Taxes are the revenues of the state budget. My replica has a basis in economic theory, but also practice. What do you think of taxes as a unique rate? What do you think of the unique tax rate on everything, even on property? But one low rate, cca 6%, so you pay 6% on a bike, but also on a Ferrari. All citizens have the same obligation to the state, to the community. So, without the many maneuvers, what is taxed and to what extent and what is often subject to, of course, manipulation. Income is taxed, but part is not taxed, and those who have a small income, and great wealth, they are almost not taxed. We're talking about property censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175421	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175422	Thank you very much for asking. The question of the so-called question. Flat tax, same tax for all tax rates, at first glance looks interesting, even sweet. Why? Let's go one step and we won't bother, it's all paid by, say, 6%, bought a bike or a plane, but it's a deeply unfair colleague, now that I was in Iceland two weeks ago, I asked the former finance minister, what they, say, did in the tax sphere. In 2008, when Iceland was nearly crushed, one of the key and first moves was that they immediately abolished such a tax. Why? Because he's being promoted by people who are rich, too rich, so they can have various forms of property, huge amounts, and practically pay a little. No, so in some countries it might work, but this kind of state and this system, it can't just stand or it's just. as I said in the system.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175423	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Lovrinović. You didn't mention that what is actually trying to show is that the reform is being implemented entirely through the state budget, and it's actually being carried out well through the local budgets. And it's not accentuating enough. Whether or not the deductions from 3800 to 4000 are so compensatory measures only for a year, but the projection continues to show that it will be very little and miserable, whether it is the income tax for young people, which I repeat, that it is supported, but should be stressed. All this goes mainly through local budgets because income tax is in its largest part of local income, in fact, entirely local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175425	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175426	Dear colleague. Of course, right away, people who work in local authorities are immediately asking and what, how are you going to settle this loss of income tax revenue, etc. You see, that's exactly what the point is, on the one hand, to increase the income available to these young people, and on the other hand, to make a selection in the sphere of public administration and self-government, why? To finally disappear those who cannot be maintained, I assume that in your case it is not questionable because this serves practically, are indeed right those who claim, to finance the voting machinery of parties that have been in power so far, which we pay through VAT, through everything else, etc. So the state has to earn the tax that it charges. So it has to be a good country. This country and this state do not deserve taxes, so we will make sure that Croatia is such a country that we gladly pay taxes to it, but it must be just new people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175427	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175428	... Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the 4th round of tax reform goes somewhat into the shadow of the fact that yesterday the State Statistics Institute announced that the Croatian economy is growing at a rate of 2.9% which is more than twice as fast or higher, it is more appropriate to say higher than the average of the EU Member States that, according to Eurostat data, rises at a percentage of 1.3%, while the State Statistics Office has singled out several important data that are generators of GDP growth in Croatia, which is primarily the growth of personal consumption, which is at a rate of 3.3%, and the growth of personal consumption, among other things, is the result and the fact that during the 4th cycle of tax reform, they are Croatian citizens, but also entrepreneurs, as we have heard from the Finance Minister, was released by 9 billion kuna. And due to the fact that tax changes, primarily income taxes, due to tax reform, are growing then wages, and clearly, wage growth increases and personal consumption in Croatia. I'll talk about it later. The second major generator of GDP growth is exports that are growing by a rate of 4.7%, and is said to be export growth, that goods exports are growing at 7.1%. When I hear from our colleagues from the opposition about, who weep over the fate of Croatian employers, then just... First of all, employers should be grateful for this 7.1% increase in goods exports and for the growth in exports of services of 3.2%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these few important indicators are about the fact that, thanks to and among other things, I say again, it must not be crucial, but thanks to, among other things, to the fact that through the 4 rounds of tax reform, we leave more resources to entrepreneurs, if they do not reduce the price of their product, that difference can be left to themselves, invest in improving equipment, invest in their own production complexes and thus be competitive, and that they are competitive on the market, the European market, in my view, is one of the sufficient indicators. When we talk about these tax reform solutions, then I would especially single out, and that's what I was saying in the first round, first reading. I would set out as an incentive measure to amend the Income Tax Act, which is free of charge for young people, young employees in Croatia up to the age of 25, abolishes, disappears, disappears, does not account, or is exempt from paying income taxes of 100%, and those slightly older between 25 and 30 years of life, 50%. I believe that this is an excellent measure because it is precisely a young man who, when employed, has a lower salary because yet, he has yet to enter the world of work, and on the other hand, the provision of 0.5% salary based on the years of employment does not contribute anything, so at that point, such measures are welcome, they are also demographic, they are also justified and they will allow that, at the level of the average wage in Croatia, this release to be between 5, 6, to 7 thousand kuna, which is not small. The second thing that I would like to point out is the provision that we have mentioned on several occasions through these three rounds of tax reform, which is to change the provision of income tax, according to which income tax is paid to the place and location of the property, and not to the place of residence, it is very good and I think it is encouraging for those units of local self-government on whose premises are mostly such real estate, i.e. buildings that are rented because I think it is justified and fair, although it is an exception to paying income tax paid to the place of the taxpayer, it seems to me to be an excellent measure, it is welcome, especially it is also encouraging because it increases the income of those who invest in raising the value and the same property, which can then especially in the second phase of their value, and thus increase the income of those who pay, which is not necessarily used by the tax institution, which is therefore, which is therefore, which would be necessary to pay the same amount, which is the same amount, which is the same amount, which I would be paid to the same amount of the tax, which I would be paid to the tax, which I would be paid by the tax, which would be paid by the tax, which would be paid by the tax, which would be paid by the tax, which I would be paid, which I would be paid. i.e. renting fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third important to me is a provision that I support and that will have a reflection on the pay of all employees, which is an increase in personal deduction from 3800 to 4000 kuna. This increase that started with 2600 and eventually came to 4 thousand kuna in large part increases wages, and thus, clearly then, after the salary increase certainly has that reflex that I initially mentioned, which is that there is an increase in personal consumption. This when I say it all applies to all employees in Croatia. And to those, to all employees in Croatia, to all workers in Croatia, such as those who are the employer of the local self-government unit, whose employer is private entrepreneurs who work in the real sector, but also those whose government is an employer. I have been saying this for a long time that the government is the largest entrepreneur in Croatia. It pays, the entrepreneur, the biggest employer in Croatia, it pays about 250 thousand a month to its civil servants and tenants and provides also salaries for public servants and tenants. And that, in the past three years, we are now in the 4th year, for example, the fact that for all government and public servants and tenants, for example, will increase the salary of 18.5%, and on the other hand, education workers 23.1% speaks of the progress made during this government, when it comes to the salaries of employees whose employer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Great. And I would be interested because if there are any other employers who have made such a concession, I am further saying that in the fact that the government is reducing the tax system. If we were to compare taxes as the basic income that the state budget fills with the final product, which the employer has, then we could say this in a way that the employer is successful, that the employer is successful, which reduces the price of his final product by reducing the price... on the market and selling more of this product and as a reflex, on the one hand reduces the price, on the other hand increasing the volume of its product, selling its product and the effect is that its higher income and through higher income it can then make more profit and pay higher wages to its employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is reflected in the state level, we cut taxes that are ours, not the end product, but which is the source of income, we cut revenues, we cut taxes, we increase revenues, and as a result we can come... to consolidate the state budget, that the state budget is in surplus and that, thanks to this, without further responsibility, which was the case before, and this was over 70 billion kuna in the term of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, we can increase the salary for everyone by 18.5, and even more educational workers by 23.1%), and knowing that we respect the position of all teachers, teachers, educators, yes, it is easier to say that in Croatia we are entering [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The creation of a coefficient regulation and as a guarantee that we will do so ensure an additional 1% increase in salary. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175429	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175430	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Bacic, you've highlighted economic growth, export growth, and that's a fact. However, you should be reminded that among these exporters and those who have achieved this growth in exports and the wood industry that employs in the Republic of Croatia is more than 50,000 people and certainly deserves the attention of both these governments and ministries. And as you treat them both as exporters and as economies, it is that 80 million kuna was planned in the 2019 budget to support development projects of wood growers, and in the 2020 budget you put only one million kuna. What kind of message is that to the owners of the woodworking industry? What is this message to workers who work in these companies and will it contribute to export growth? And secondly, if you are already in favour of the economy, will you allow Đura Djakovic's workers to pay their salaries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175431	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When I was talking about GDP growth generators, I forgot, I missed out on saying that one of the important growth generators at 5% and what is important when we talk about the government's work mention that out of all public investment in Croatia, almost 70% comes from these investments in the public sector, implements thanks primarily to EU funds or EU funds. This suggests that the government has made it possible to use EU funds more quickly, in a very short time. When you talk to me about the wood industry, so you know very well that through the Minimum Pay Act, in the term of office of this Government, this announced increase in the minimum wage that will go by 100 euros next year, and 750 kuna, respectively, will increase the minimum wage and that we have had It's for the industry you're talking about compensatory measures. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175433	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bacic's. I must refer again to what you said to reduce the personal deduction, i.e. an increase in personal deduction from 3800 to 4000 kuna. So that's the difference of 200 kuna, when you're counting taxes by 24%, that's 48 kuna in total. So all the people you mentioned in the private sector can grow at a maximum of 48 kuna + interest. So, nothing more than that. And now really, we're going to have one absurd, but well, okay, the public sector needs to be supported and we support it. There, wages will grow 300, 400, 500, perhaps 700 kuna, and in the private sector will grow to a maximum of 48 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175435	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Greek, you would be right if you were not denied by the State Statistics Service. In this period that I'm talking about is also the amount of the total average salary, and there's a million and 350 thousand workers you're saying are going to increase them by these changes of 48 kuna salaries. So there's a million and 350 of them and they've increased the salary of 800, almost 800 kuna. In office, 800 kuna and you are now telling me that this has nothing to do with tax reform. It has a lot to do with tax reform because we're a personal deduction.../incomprehensible/... to 2600, and now it's 4, that's one thing, which is no longer, as you say 48 kunas but much more. And the other thing, which I mentioned earlier, is that by cutting the profit tax to employers, we left the possibility of instead of paying the state. tax at a rate of 20, pay at a rate of 18 and can therefore increase wages to its employees. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175437	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175438	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, I will also refer to this minimum amount, which will make it easier for people to earn 40 kunas a month, unlike the military, more cent of former ministerial assistants who will become directors at the ministry of prominent HDZs who will be paid to increase 6%, more than 1000 kuna. So these people who are now reporting as a fol to the ministry's competitions, all will be accepted who want ministerial assistants who don't have old jobs so they don't keep them, all those who want to, will apply and become directors at the ministries, have 15 thousand kuna salaries, and only they will have in common that they will have 6% more, or more than 1000 kuna per month and the HDZ party card. And for teachers, you don't have 6%. For teachers, you don't have 6% to raise the coefficient. But you've given these over 1,000 kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175439	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Maras. We'll see at the end of the total number of ministerial assistants how many management directors will be. Director of the administration of the newly elected, newly appointed. I, to me, have not asked a single minister, the minister who has proposed, proposed the law, claims that no one will answer from his assistants. And why won't he answer? We already have that experience from before. What you're talking about is 6% growth, he's losing his right to an apartment. Living in Zagreb and paying for the apartment is much more than you say that he will get from the base 6,12, much more, or much more expensive apartment because now someone from my Korčula or Dubrovnik or Slavonski Brod would become the director of the administration by now, as assistant minister, he had an apartment and he was provided there and something else by the apartment you know well because you were also a representative and you were a minister, and when you remain without it, I am not sure that anyone will answer. So, no, I said let's wait for this process to end, and we'll see who's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175441	My colleague Maras, you've done your job in violation of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175442	So I have to react, in 238, I just have to do it for the public, I didn't intend to do it specifically, Mr. Bacic said...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175443	No, you can't if the Rules of Procedure isn't hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175444	... yes, yes, but the Rules of Procedure has been injured because it is not a fact he has spoken truthfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175445	It has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175446	So with that side, with that side, I didn't have...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175447	Please, I'm giving you a warning from my colleague Maras. ...but don't do I didn't have anything secure, the man said I had something secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175450	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you forgot to mention one very important thing, and these are receipts for employees defined by the Income Tax Regulation and why it went to such a variant. Because they tang all the employees, and if you raise an untaxable part of it tangs, it unfortunately does not tag 800,000 employees who are outside tax scissors and over 800,000 pensioners. But when you touch this income tax, when you say about 5,000 kuna about that famous 13 salary or how, then the cost of transportation, then the cost of eating, if you document it with credible documentation of the cost of accommodation and the cost of eating, that's 15 thousand kuna. It's just facts you can't get away from. However, I say some simply distort the documents adopted in this assembly, but I guess that's style.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175451	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleague Shuker, that would be an additional argument to Mr. Greek, but here's what I didn't think of. I talked a lot about it in the first, first, debated when it was in the first reading, on the monthly level, it is about a million and 300, a thousand and 300, at the monthly level for every employee in Croatia who does this, can compare the salary on which he accounts for income tax, and you yourself said about 900,000 of them are not at all in income taxes, can add around a million and 300 thousand, 1,300 kuna a month to increase his salary, and in any case, it is also an incentive for the growth of personal consumption, and I think the minister has said how many of them in the first month of the employers used that opportunity to pay their employees this untaxable income.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175453	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175454	Thank you, Vice President. So, colleague Bacic, you're talking about some wage bumps, you're talking about some averages. You know what averages are when you eat meat, I eat rice, my coworker cabbage, and then it's a charm on average. That sounds nice, but it's not like that. Unfortunately, you do not talk about how much prices of goods and services have increased in Croatia, how much this trend of balancing prices in Croatia with older EU members is present, how much all around us, and now you have mentioned the cost of renting apartments, how much it is growing, how much maintenance of apartments, houses, vehicles, means our citizens suffer a lot of collection, a lot more expenditure, and what you're talking about is very minor, and when you go out, and I don't know clearly you're not circulation among ordinary regiments, as it looks like, you don't realize how much they have a burden on themselves, how difficult it is for them to educate their children and maintain their homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175455	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm glad to have Mr. Lenart on hand who's every day among the regiments, among our people, has information, and I don't have that information. Mr. Lenart, I know very well about the standard of our citizens, and I know what the standard is, but I think I'm with the salary growth data, about the growth of minimum wages, about the growth of pensions, about the growth of personal consumption, about how much more you say about how much and what standard it is, a lot more than your opposition rates say about wage growth and pension growth, about the growth of minimum wages, about the growth of consumption and everything that's going on in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175457	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175458	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so I will at first and again repeat this debate that I am sorry to discuss this after the adoption of the state budget. I think the debate would be better, but also if some normal sequence were to discuss these tax changes first and second readings, especially when we see that they were practically discussed within a week. So, this break that's been a week. I don't see why we couldn't discuss this a week ago so that we can normally discuss this budget because the effects that should be visible from these tax changes are already shown in the budget, and they are practically not yet adopted. I think it's important to stress this, but well, I made one whole series of remarks in my first reading, or suggestions that I thought might need to be incorporated into these tax changes, that they should be discussed. I'm sorry that you didn't actually accept it, but you didn't show yourself at all, except for one of my remarks between the two readings, so I'm going to repeat here, so when we talk about income tax and this measure for young people who are now all from the ruling majority so much praise, I suggested in the first reading that I do it to support that measure, and I support it even differently from you, or I suggested that young people be released by 30. all 100%, not up to 25. 100, then 30. 100%, and why do I think that? I believe that this is how you punish those who go to college and who are educated and who invest in themselves and in their knowledge, who, until they finish their education, will not be able to use this measure. I don't think that's good, that it's not stimulating for young people, and I think that should have changed, that you should make a 100% release for everyone by 30. without this 50%. I also pointed out to you that units of local self-government should compensate for this loss from income tax, so whether through compensation, through a fund of alignment or in some other way, but I think it is time we all thought together about reforming the units of local self-government or the way they finance it, that we have now reduced the units that are essentially only income tax, the only source of funding units, and in fact you in each tax change from year to year, every year you reduce their share and practically all of these tax redundancies work most of the local units of self-government or our cities and municipalities because each of your tax circle they have, they have this less income for themselves, so maybe in the future you should consider other sources of finance for cities and municipalities. The second thing, a colleague of Greece was saying the same thing when we talk about income tax, we suggested that you give up the VAT rate reduction by 1%, which you finally did and did, we are glad that you listened to us in that part and that you direct these funds to wage growth in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, you did something different than we said, we suggested that you raise your personal deduction to 5.00 kn which would lead to an instantaneous increase of 300-350,00 kn to each employee, which is much, much more than these 48, which will be yours, your proposal. The second thing, counterpart Bačić, colleagues from HDZ here all the time, is that you ministers in the public as well as the prime minister that in the term of this government's salary is growing 20%, okay, we talked about it the other day, so they grow in the public sector, so there's a state employer and Mr Bačić has been pointing out all day that the state has increased its workers as the highest payer 20%, he mocks the real sector and the people who create values in this society, saying what a better employer than private workers is doing because the state is raising 20%, private workers cannot raise 20% of their wages due to all the heavy taxes they have in this country, because of the red tape of business, because of the lack of labour and xy stuff, we have to import workers and that is all the reasons why employers or the real sector cannot raise their wages and it is embarrassing that Mr. Bačić is even thinking that we are talking to the whole of the government that we are talking about the real sector. I think it's inadmissible, that we should say, and when we take those figures that he's talking about who they're denying, so if the pay in the public sector was up 20%, and the average salary in the Republic of Croatia in the term of this government grew about 12% then exactly how much it grew in the real sector, and it grew below 10% in the government's term, and that's also the government's responsibility, if the successes of growth in the public sector are due then you're responsible because private workers can't raise their salaries anymore because of what the government does and implements, and I think you should say that. The same thing is this story with, with teachers, that we have this strike for more than a month and that it doesn't end at all, I have to refer to it again, so you point out that you're charging the state budget, you're pointing out huge revenues, you're pointing out that financials are going well, low borrowing rates, and on the other hand you're saying that you don't have money to increase, to change the coefficients for which it would result in an increase in the salary of teachers, and that's the cost of 400 million kuna per year and in the budget of the history of 145 billion kuna that there are no 400 million kuna for teachers, it's a hollow story and totally unconvincing. I think it's just about the self of the Prime Minister who initially said nothing, we're reading today statements from anonymous HDZ sources that they're ordering, I wouldn't give them a millimeter, I wouldn't give up lip, what kind of messages are these, how do you treat people in this country? So these are the things to talk about, and I think it's inadmissible and that in such a way the country is not being led and that you need to blame the ego and that the whole state can't be the hostage of one man because it doesn't want to give up, that now for a month now, the government is making a new offer to some kind of chemistry, a little bit of it, I'm going to be 1% there, and basically what you're doing, you're scratching on that proposal, you're not making any concrete suggestion, so in the woods you offered at first, on the first negotiations now this is what you've offered yesterday, and now you have to do something about it because this situation is unsustainable and we have chaos in the country, so as much as you're saying, this government is often at the head with the prime minister's stability, that there's always been more stability in our country, and that there's always been a lot of stability, and that we's a lot of stability in the need to say, so much more stability in our country. We have a country where months, more than a month, children don't go to school, a country where military helicopters are smuggled, guns smuggled, where the police shoot a migrant every day, where police officers drive across the bounds and squabble each other inside the ministry, and then the one who showed him up gets fired instead of who's guilty. The system doesn't work from the police, the military, the state, nothing works. And give yourself more of that, move your ego, move your stories, and start solving the problems of the citizens of this country, not telling this fairy tale here that Mr. Bacic is telling. And he was well told by his colleague Leonard to live in a world of his own and not to be in touch with people at all like he's not even the prime minister. You too live in one of your clouds and get down and start solving problems in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175459	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175460	Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Djujic, you said this, that the government had listened to our proposal to increase the personal deduction from 3800 to 56 thousand kuna not only to raise salaries to people in the private sector who are now paying about 48 kuna but also to raise salaries in the public sector, and that is to say to these people in critical groups when it comes to wages. And these are nurses, technicians, teachers, teachers. So the most relative salary would grow between 5 and 7 thousand kunas, which is precisely that salary. And in this way, the government would solve a significant part of the problem and talk with the unions would be much easier and more pleasant because everyone who pays today's tax in those categories would profit by 330 to 500 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175461	Thank you. Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175462	Exactly, my colleague, Greek, and not only that, but when some colleagues did not say that, but some colleagues said in their first reading that as a minister he was talking about tax evasion and growing tax revenues. It's normal because it's the effects of that discharge. And that's right, if what we're proposing were done, so the personal deduction was raised from 3800 to 5, which would lead to this salary increase that you were talking about, it would also have the effect of increasing personal consumption, which would again fill the budget further. So the state wouldn't be at a loss here. We've been, we've been listening to announcements from last month's gonna be a crisis, there won't be a crisis. And everyone was focused on the German economy and the British economy. Well, Germany has just escaped this technical crisis, so the third quarter is down due to the growth of personal consumption. And instead of learning about it, what are we doing? We're working, I don't know, let's get it started.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175463	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175464	Thank you. Dear fellow Djujic, you've made this very clear, but here I am going to try to sum it up through a joke. He says, he was riding Tito on the train, he stopped the train, he asks what he is, they say Comrade Tito doesn't have the railroad anymore, he says he calls the young girls to build the railroad. He was driving a Franjo Tudjman train, stopped the train, he asks what he is, says Mr. President no longer has the railroad, says he invites the army to build the railroad. And recently, Andrej Plenkovic was driving with the whole government train, stopped the train, asking what he was, saying to Mr. Prime Minister no longer has the railroad and he says take the ministers out to rock the train to make it look like we're driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175465	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175466	It's a good joke.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175467	The next replica is the respected MPs Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175468	Thank you, Vice President. So, you said in the first part of the exposure that employees whose employer is state had a salary increase of up to 20% and you sided with employees in craftsmen and in the economy, entrepreneurship where there was a far less increase. In some ways you said that all these increases in employees where the employer of the state went to the burden of those in entrepreneurship in crafts. In the second part of the exhibition, however, you said that we have riots both in the education system and in the police, social workers and so on, and that they deserve to be increased. Tell me where you were going to settle this increase, and wouldn't that help a new pay gap and raise wages where the employee of the state is and where those who work with craftsmen, or entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175469	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175470	You were just interpreting what I said. That's not what I said. You said, "No, you said it right away." You said it in a way. No, your club president Branko Bacic talks today, and in the term of office of this government, he's raised his salary to 20% where he's a government employer. What other employer boasts that he has paid a 20% salary? And what kind of employers are they in the state other than the government, the public sector and the private, you give me that, who's the other? So I was just reacting to how Mr. Bacic, your club president, your... Make fun of the public sector in this country, insults them in a way that speaks we're a better employer than you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And your income is full of taking them. That's what I said, I wasn't saying I should take this one or that one. And I think it's inadmissible and that someone was supposed to react to it today that he hasn't been talking about this nonsense for five days in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175471	The next individual debate is the respected representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175472	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Well, here's the whole day we've been making sure who did what and how. The fact is that, for the mandates of these governments, income tax was reduced, in one part, or value added tax remained the same, income tax was changed on several occasions. The profit tax is also reduced. So when we look at what the burdens are, then we can measure it all and finally tell how total it is with all these measures that have happened. In this last change, i.e. this round, total burdens have been reduced by 2.4 billion kuna. When we look at value added tax then what you mentioned before, it remained really at 25%, but that rate was actually on several occasions when we looked at how selectively applied to individual product groups, then it was visible that in 2017 there was a reduction of total by 350 million kuna per year, in 2018. In 530, in 19, the discharge was about a billion and a half and what is predicted in 2020, it was a disbursement of 900 million kuna. So, all that was happening in all the changes and additions, and it was about value added tax, when you look at it, are big effects that allowed both the caterers and private entrepreneurs in those segments that were really benefiting from these changes, and it was primarily about small entrepreneurs in this last package, where the total turnover of 3 million kunas is changing to 7.5 million kunas, so the entrepreneur at the time when he reports his income tax obligation and when he pays it, and when he pays it, then pays it by invoiced realisation, which is a big step for small entrepreneurs who in this way keep their liquidity, and at the same time have a better charge because it's actually the purpose of all of us to make money and to make money as soon as possible and thus also to be paid to the state government in time. When you look at the Income Tax Act, then you look at all these segments that have happened since the beginning of these tax changes. You're saying that income tax, that he's actually undetectable and that nothing important has changed. However, when we look at that from the non-taxable part that was now 2,600 it has grown in this year, i.e. from 1.1.2020 to 4 thousand, then it is quite a large part of the available income that will remain, both for pensioners and employees, either in the private or in the public sector. When you look at that exactly in the tax shears of these, in fact, pensioners who have about a million and 240 thousand, 800 thousand in this way do not belong and do not enter tax shears at all, and even more than 800 thousand employees, then this is quite significant and precisely these effects that have occurred since the increase in consumption, personal consumption actually proves that in this way the larger basket of goods was possible to spend, i.e. at the disposal of each citizen himself. If we see that additional benefits have been made in the amendments to the Income Tax Regulation, if additional remuneration is made possible for workers and employees, if it is additionally possible to pay the cost of kindergartens, to pay the costs, or to recognise as a tax recognition of the cost of the employee’s diet, and even in those previous changes when it has been made possible for employers to pay the cost of staff accommodation, then it is quite a major step where the employer can thus attract a larger number of employees and reward them, which can actually further stimulate it. Well, I've already mentioned that it's just like a reward that was paid in the period 2018 and 19 to the end, here's the 10th month. there were a total of a billion and 276 kunas, millions of kunas paid just as rewards to employees, which is an extremely large amount, not to mention other fees paid, therefore, and primarily from private entrepreneurs. In addition, when we see that with all the redundancies that were happening and the increased non-taxable part, when we look at it as parallel to that, that actually income from income tax was still growing, so it increased and actually expanded the tax base, and in this way they actually created a prerequisite for local self-government units to get as much income available as possible. When you look only at that tax, the profit tax that was reduced from 20% to 12, and 18%, respectively, since 2017 when it was 8.3 billion, it was almost 8.5 billion in 2018, and in 2019. 8.8 billion kuna, which is the original plan, and we'll see what's going to be done, given that the changes raised it to 9.2 billion kuna. The value added tax since 2017 has now increased to 54 billion with a new plan. So despite all the redundancies and the selective approach for certain groups of goods, we see that this consumption is very much raising revenue. Therefore, this does not mean that the total tax premium is higher than it proves that the schedule of tax revenues themselves is different or that the base is much wider and more high-quality which actually enables one more quality revenue of the state budget, which can therefore serve all other obligations. When we look at the fact that there has been a significant decline in the unemployment rate at the end of the 10th month of this year in Croatia, it is 7.2% and the EU reference rate is 6.2%. Then it also says that in all directions it was taken to leave as much income as possible for each employee but also for the pensioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175473	Thank you. Next individual debate of the respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175474	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here I would point out once again at the very beginning and say that this fourth package of tax reform provides for a new discharge for our citizens, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, for 2.3 billion kuna, which means that from the previous 3 is a total discharge for nearly 9 billion kuna. The fact that there are colleagues who will say that these are small and insignificant benefits that little and no one will use. This is if we look only at the benefits that came into force on September 1st of this year that the untaxable expenditure also became the cost of accommodation, the cost of eating, the accommodation of children workers in educational and educational institutions. Well, here's the other day we're reading saying that the 13th salary has already been paid by more than half a million employees. I believe that half a million employees would disagree with what our opposition says that everything we do and that it's small and insignificant. Further in two months, more than 115 thousand workers began to receive compensation for a warm meal. A colleague, Lovrinović, often tells the truth, needs to know our citizens, and for this very reason I would like to say that with about 6400 kuna net and about 8800 kuna, Croatia's average gross salary is third highest in wages among the transition countries behind Slovenia and the Czech Republic but we are ahead and we are ahead and Poland and Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, because it is often said that we are always last in the last place and worst in all possible indicators. As of next year, even our position should be improved because the preparation and modification of the methodology of statistical wage statement will also include untaxable fees such as Christmases, regressions and 13th wages, a warm meal and other similar fees. Since early September, when a warm meal became an untaxable fee, it has started to pay 11600 employers for 115 thousand employees. All of them totaled 133 million kunas. Equally, 1192 companies started paying kindergarten costs for 1588 employees, leaving 3600 million kuna. The new option is also to pay for the accommodation of workers, which was also used by 187 companies, which is particularly important at this time when we are talking about the lack of professional staff, when the requirements of mass entrepreneurs and craftsmen are for the import of labour that has the appropriate professional equipment. The big surprise is that 32 thousand 850 companies have already paid a billion and 280 million kuna bonuses for their employees, resulting in nearly every worker getting about 2.5 thousand kuna bonuses. I was part of 32 this week. The Congress of Guests and Tourist Employees of the HOK in Solaris and there were first and foremost discussed conclusions from the previous congress, while commending the government's efforts and changes that this 4th package of tax reform has just brought. Namely, the first conclusion of the 31st Congress was to reduce the VAT rate to prepare and serve food and sweets, though also drinks. This exactly tax reform and this proposal extends the application of a rate of 13% to preparing and serving food and sweets in and outside of the catering craft, thus disowning revenue of around 900 million kuna per year. When we talk about this Congress, I would also pass on their requests and requests from this Congress, which is closed, except for a reduction in VAT rate which provides for this package of tax reform to be considered and in the coming period they have also requested a lower VAT rate of 13% to prepare and serve non-alcoholic drinks, warm drinks, wine and beer. Guests also require recognition of the costs of the team at 100%. When we talk about craftsmen and entrepreneurs, they will surely be pleased with the amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, the Law on Profit Tax, but also those not covered by this tax reform, these are amendments and additions to the Law on crafts. All that has been done so far and what the government is investing in the development of safe entrepreneurship and crafts has led to a 5-seat jump on the competitiveness scale. On this occasion, she would also once again commend changes to the Income Tax Act which predict that income tax becomes the income of that unit of local self-government where the apartment or room is rented, not as so far as it went towards the place of residence of the tenant. The change in income tax compared to first reading is also in the part relating to the tax, namely now other than income tax and tax heading towards the place where the room is located or apartment, this especially means to us in Sibenik-Knin County where the largest number of accommodation facilities that are not owned by that city is located. So, for example. The largest percentage has just the city of Sibenik, as much as 64%, the town of Vodice is slightly above 60%, while cities like Zadar are 34%, Split 30, Dubrovnik 36, which are the same in these cities as in Vodice, for example. The guides should receive nearly 3 million kunas only on the basis of this tax plus the tax goes to it. This government shows that it is extremely responsible, that it seeks to have fiscal stability, which it also achieves and I am proud to reiterate that GDP grew 2.9% in the third quarter, which is 2.7% more than in the same quarter of 2018. Compared to other Eurozone countries, it should be said that the Eurozone had a growth of only 0.2% compared to the previous quarter or EU countries 2.3%, and the Republic of Croatia even 0.2% and 0.3% respectively, while the Republic of Croatia achieved that 0.8% increase in expectations. It grew faster and exports and should be said that the largest growth had a sector of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, it grew by as much as 4.5%. This is just for the record because, as my colleague Lovrinovic says, we need to tell the truth, so let the truth be heard by our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175475	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Muscle, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175476	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleague Martincevic, you mentioned craftsmen and entrepreneurs in your speech, I personally think that this government has made some twists about entrepreneurs and craftsmen in this short time. Under no. The 1st income tax is 12% which is very important and 92%, 95% of craftsmen enter that part of tax reform. The second thing, they raised from 3 million traffic to 7.5 million, which is very important and a lot of additional things that craftsmen were freed. Furthermore, they gave a lot of encouragement to young workers whom we crafters can receive and train and eventually leave in their companies if they leave some good knowledge and so on. I think this government has done as much as it could at this time, of course you can always do more. and relieve as much as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175477	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175478	Thank you very much, true, my colleague Misic in the Republic of Croatia has 86 020 active crafts, which is 39% of total business entities, especially in my Sibenik-Knin County, with us even the share of craftsmen in the economy is 58% and we know very well what improvement means, administrative discharge, financial discharge, new non-taxable expenditures and all of those benefits that enable this government, and certainly that it can always be better and that in the coming period, we will have on our benches next week changes and additions to the Law on crafts that provide for new and discharges and new benefits for our craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175479	Next individual debates by the respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175480	Thank you, Vice-President HS, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues since 2016. So far, three rounds of tax reform have been ahead of us, today is the fourth round, through these previous 3 rounds of citizens and entrepreneurs have been relieved with nearly 7 billion kunas, in this 4th round of tax reform with almost 2.4 billion kuna and all of that, when we add up these 4 tax circles, that's over 9 billion kuna. I'll look back at some measures from the previous 3 rounds, so in the first round VAT was reduced from 25 to 5% for all medicines, newspapers and magazines, then reduced VAT from 25 to 13% for the supply of electricity, baby seats, diapers and... in agricultural production, delivery of animals, meat, fish, fruit and vegetables, the threshold for entry into the register of VAT commitments to 300,000,00 kn, increased personal deduction from 2.600,00 to 3.800,00 kn, increased coefficient for dependent family members, increased the amount of income for a dependent family member from 13 to 155.00 kn, scholarships do not enter benefits for family member status no matter how much they are, new non-taxable receipts were introduced, cost of accommodation and food for workers on seasonal work, cash prize up to 5.00 kn, salary in nature from 400 to 600,00 kn was increased, support for newborns at 10,000.00 kn. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] With new measures, I will especially highlight one of the most important to me, of course, and all the others are significant, and we can call it economic, social and demographic, it's a measure for young people. So for young people up to 25 years, tax obligations are reduced by 100%, by 26 to 30 years, by 50%. This measure is not related to the date of birth but to the year and will cover more than 300,000 young people. This is particularly important for the neighborhoods and counties that my young people have moved out of, and I am sure that this will be one of the measures that will certainly help young people to stay and survive in their regions. Furthermore, the cost of accommodation for all workers, the cost of eating up to 12,000 kuna, the cash compensation for accommodation up to 5,000 kuna, the cost of regular care of pre-school workers, the increase of the non-taxable amount of daily travel logs from 170 to 200 kuna, the increase of personal deduction from 3,800 to 4,000 kuna, the fee for students of dual education and the reward during practical work for all those valuable students does not enter the censorship of a dependent family member, which will certainly help parents no longer lose their right to tax relief due to some few kunas. And what's significant, and as far as local and regional self-government units are concerned, I'll point out that this tax reform my county received more than 22 million kunas in the last year, when we recalculate and add that fiscal balance to that is certainly a huge asset. I therefore commend and support this 4th round of tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175481	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175482	Thank you very much. Comrade Maximchuk, we, in fact, have reduced the tax return in these tax changes from 25% to 13%, but only to prepare food and sweets. Which is why you didn't make a drink, especially if we know that this affects domestic production because many of our entrepreneurs or farmers in Croatia are winemakers producing huge quantities of wine that must now pay 25% of the food tax instead of returning everything to 13% as before the arrival of your ruling majority to power. So again, there's some kind of half-assed solution going on. First you took the first step in those first tax changes you raised from 13 to 25, now you're returning something but again half way, and you're essentially leaving out a strong economic branch in the Republic of Croatia right in your area where you come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175483	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175484	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, a 25-to 13% reduction is certainly a significant measure. Of course we expect from the minister through further work that will improve measures and certainly facilitate the work of the caterers, but here is one of the measures that will certainly at this point significantly help the work of the caterers, but I say relieve the businessmen and all the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175485	The next replica is the respected representative of Lipoščak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175486	Thank you. Well, colleagues Maximchuk, we've heard a lot in this debate today, and actually those who listen to us are at least a little confused with what they're hearing. Some say that nothing is practically good, others talk about increasing numbers and generally very many numbers actually on the air. That's how I recently got a text from my fellow Ogulin citizen who specifically asked me what amounts we're talking about, and what's changing? I would only repeat once again that the personal deduction, or the non-taxable part, rises from 3,800 to 4,000 kuna, not so long ago it was to 2,600 kuna, and young people up to 25 years of income tax is reduced by 100%, respectively, to those up to 30 years of age by 50%. The comparisons work on the net salary of 7,000 kuna in my Ogulin some income tax is about 1,000 kuna and it is not difficult to calculate how much it is on the annual level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175487	Thank you. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175488	Thank you very much. An esteemed colleague, that this tax discharge of about nine billion kunas through these four circles has been disbursed citizens and businessmen. This measure that you and I have looked back on I said that it is economic, social and demographic, it is a measure for young people up to 25 years free of liabilities in a 100% amount of 26 to 30 percent, and you said it was a net amount of salary of 7,000 kuna 1,000 kuna. It is a very nice amount that will certainly help young people and all those who want to stay here and live in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175489	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175490	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. Very briefly, I'm just going to sum up through two readings of what I've already mentioned with some small accessories. In fact, what is good is that it is certain that these tax changes, like many before that, do not go to harm or burden to the citizens or to the economy. This means that nothing changes that would cause and require bigger taxes, higher taxes, less funds in the pocket of our fellow citizens or economies for further investment. That's the basis. We can argue here that we should do something more or less, it's legitimate. I always like to remind myself that nowhere should we go with our throats into strawberries and go too much than always to look slowly at the effects of what has been done and it's been done in these last 3.4 years, and I'm glad that today we don't actually hear that there are more taxes here than there are increasing tax revenues, so as a tax burden, I think it's clear to everyone now that this thesis is not standing, and that we can only discuss how we still have what we have, the opportunities we have better used and it's absolutely legitimate. Accordingly, I would also like to submit several amendments, I would like to include in these extensions and untaxed receipts and persons on a professional basis, on professional training without any relationship, to find a possibility for them when they are already sharing all working conditions with their colleagues to allow them a certain type of non-taxable income, thus making the measure both more interesting and more fulfilling their objective. And also to try to get involved in these measures from the young, and here we can discuss whether we should extend or not to those who go to college and what our goal is, they gave us the goal of those who leave most of the artisans we want to keep or those who have colleges. I think they're both important, but we can say that now it's our priority to keep the craftsmen, because such a labour market is now, a lack of a large price, etc., especially the masters, but right here when we talk about these craftsmen, we'd like to include themselves in them and get tax reliefs as much as in the proposal and the people who are younger than the 30th to make the incomes from independent work, so crafts who are not in the system of flat tax. So, someone who is 25 years old, founded his own trade, whether it's in the VAT system or not, but it's not a flatulent that it's the same thing on the annual tax returns, since we've now changed this from that original idea, that it's exactly the annual level of accounting for that relief, that they're going to be able to do the same in their annual application and the income tax billing, because they're the incomers, to make it possible for them. So, not the ones who already pay a very small tax, I mean if they make an income of up to 80,000 salaries of around 1,200, so it would be really, really unfair of them, give them extra, but to everyone else who taxes themselves as minors and those of unsuspecting work to make it possible for them, and accordingly, the amendment will go. Of course, I would just like to point out that since we have the whole next year, we have to come up with compensatory measures for local self-government units that will lose a certain part of their income, and most of all this applies to cities that are largely not in that, that fund for balancing because of their own development, to see what I said in the first reading, through the memorial rent, income from the monumental rent, to be fully transferred as incomes of the local self-government unit and also income from buying out social housing where it is now shared 40 60 for rent, and 55 45 for the benefit of the state for ransom. So they would sort of compensate for that and not get us some utility services, fees, kindergartens, public transports, etc., if you don't give it to God it would happen somewhere. Of course, a lot has already been given to local self-government units themselves, it doesn't need to be lost through, just by allowing them full income from income tax, but let's just try to think about it in that direction. Also, what I'm going to end up with, when we're talking about these tax-related measures, or avoiding any kind of tax-indulgence taxation, that we're going to absolutely follow that and the rule, that it doesn't happen that it goes too narrowly, too rigidly, and that's just what it's worth when we talk about financial behaviors that really have not one but maybe more forms of unsustainable work and that this is how they abuse it. So, the one who just started the craft, the one who works.../incomprehensible/... for the employer and only goes to him and takes orders from him because he has a job there, then we can say about some avoidance. Everything else would be to enter into certain market freedoms and the choice of the flat-rate person I say once again, he chooses to have no benefit from the Labour Act, so neither severance nor sick leave, no annual, no days off, so none of what protects so-called contract cancellations, etc. And I think they're doing it consciously, and they have to be adequately rewarded. So, these two things we're going to hope that the Proposer will be able to accept, but first of all, this thing with the rule.../incomprehensible/... we can't afford to get into this story of freedom of choice and business. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175491	Thank you. The replica was sought by Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175492	Thank you very much, Vice President. You mentioned this income tax to your colleague Curaj in terms of tax relief for young people, so you mentioned craftsmen and those who are schooling, so what should be our goal, and I actually agree with you that our goal should be one and the other, and then I wouldn't be doing it that's a bigger goal, which is smaller. Here I have submitted an amendment to free 100% of all up to 30 years, and here I call on you to support this proposal and the amendment, because I think it's a greater shame than that detimulation of young people's education, and at least to you in HNS, at least it's a declarative education, so I think you'll support this proposal, and if we watch who leaves Croatia the most, it's just those 30 to 40 years for which there are no measures, so I don't see why, why you wouldn't support this proposal. And one personal question, here's the whole day I've been waiting for you, what do you think of this government offer to these teachers since yesterday, you yourself and you at HNS? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175493	The answer to the line, Mr. Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175494	First of all, I'm going to do this on the agenda, so I'd like to go with an amendment, say, for those who regularly go to school for a period of regular schooling after compulsory high school education, to extend this part of the first use so much. We're still with this amendment of yours if someone's been educated for five or six years he won't be able to use it as the one that didn't. And then we can talk about some justice no matter what it is 50 or 100%, but then when we go like that it would really lead us to understand the promoters to lose that focus, which is to encourage those who are now deficient interests in the labour market to, what they stay there, to be hired and to be really competitive with their employers and first of all, this has a demographic aspect. As far as the government's offer is concerned, surely what we can agree is that those who are doing the only major reform that should be rewarded and should be recognised but that there should be justice, absolutely, and I hope that they will also agree that everyone gets what they absolutely deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175495	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Josip Boric, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175496	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I want to say something about this 9th law, as we say the 4th round of tax reform. We've had an interesting morning, a day, a fourth time the same story on the other side, they're all lame, simply if I understand it correctly, whatever someone writes, brings to this Parliament, at least the Ministry of Finance sucks to them, not to say the uglier word. Because listening to them, we have managed to determine that they have figured out this whole tax reform, they know the exact effects of such tax reform so that some will get a salary greater than 17 kuna, some will get 45 kuna, some maybe 100, and they are not very happy about it. They cut everybody's wages, some 200, some 500, mostly did what they knew best, and everything went down. By listening to Mr. Greek, this was also the same today, because when he was then tax reform was done every week, every month and these reforms gave birth to leaving us where they took us in 2011, identically. As they said it was a burnt country, it was probably the burnt ground that they left behind. And, of course, you have to deal with the one who took responsibility, the government because it commits and you can't act the same way they did. Because I'm saying, creating budgets like the mayor of Sisak who makes Milanovic and Mr. Maras political patrons, that's a special story. When you create what they say is an over-inflated budget, you invent the revenue you know you won't have, then we can just go back a few years and figure out what they were doing back then. We'd been doing the calculations and then they'd be fixing them after three months because they figured out they were doing the same thing they did to the lady. in Sisak, which Mr. Maras and Mr. Milanović is a political sponsor. And with those, we need an argument. And when we say 2.3 billion we release and give to entrepreneurs, citizens, I don't know, local self-government, etc., they say it sucks because they took away local self-government 2 billion and never returned anything. That's what the citizens need to know, they need to hear it because they didn't care what happened to the citizens, teachers, teachers and all those who were in public and state services. Cut off without any big story, they said either 10 grand right out of the system or the coefficient regime, supplements, regressions, goddesses. And today we're listening to an explanation, he says it was such a time, we had to do it, not whether they knew or didn't know but it was such a bad time. And that's what citizens have to take as a serious message. I don't agree with that, it was time as it was today, and if they knew for sure they wouldn't be doing it the way they were doing it. They see that they are better than them today, and they are in their way. And every day this country draws some kind of heavy color, causing chaos and dissatisfaction and trying to make sure that we all end up in some kind of depression at a time when each number justifiably shows that this government has a result. And to them, that result sucks, too. They say 2.9, so we had 2.5 in the last year. What progress that is. But they didn't count all those minuses in the previous years. They didn't care. It's always been seen just that one number so they look successful. And what should we expect from them now, if we didn't support three rounds of tax reform, with the 4th being a disbursement of 9.3 billion kuna to all, we expect them to support the 4th? No, we don't. They should be against everything because they've been doing it for four years anyway. And now we've heard, here we're reducing the VAT which they've been heavily advocated, they've been saying that for four years, for food, for sweets, for food in catering facilities from 25 to 13. They raised the one between the rate from 10 to 13 and dropped everyone from 25 to 13 and then Mr. Linic came here and abolished the famous Law of Contributions that he made so many minus that he had to contribute that they were reduced back. We remember that, so we didn't forget that. That they gave the caterers and almost destroyed the health system. It was their policy, Marasov, he kept his hand up for it, everything was fine. Nothing's wrong with him today. When Mr. Voter cut his salary to teachers for 500 kuna a month, he said it was great, I guess that's when everyone respected the party's discipline and there was no problem. ... Look, I don't know, 7.5 billion people, I just, 7.5 million people say the threshold, 93% of small entrepreneurs can get into it, pay a smaller profit tax, that sucks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When he was a minister who had his own elevator so he could drive up to his floor he erased them, a few tens of thousands I'll say because the last time he told me that 50 thousand is too large, a few tens of thousands. It was his concern about small entrepreneurs. It just erases you and that's it. What is 200 million kunas to them? Nothing. 70 billion were beaten in 4 years, 70 billion. That's what citizens need to know, public debt. Asked them where you spent it on deficits. It's these budgets that you'd blow up and eventually end up being finished, someone should have paid for it, and now that you want to fix that situation, it sucks to them. They don't care if we release the young person from paying income taxes, says he won't be able to work, can study until 45, so let him study, which he wouldn't, I guess it'll be okay to finish his study and do his time, why not 100%, why 50, why here, why, and always some doubt, nothing good, the effect of 700 million kuna, no matter, because we watch and others, I don't know, here we increase the basic deduction from 3.800,00 to 4,000,00, they say too little, at 5,000,00, then we come here to debate about, I don't know, local self-government, tell them what you took from them, that it's not a shame, that it means raising another 1,000,00 a deduction, how you're not ashamed of taking local self-government money, that's their policies, for the citizens, don't have to be trained to know everything, but it't be followed here and so there't be any policy that doesn't have any more than any day, which I't have any choice, so much, which means every day. and we have to fight with those, in which way, only in this way with these changes that people feel, it's not true that the wages didn't grow, it's not true, as well as pensions, it's not true, it's everyone's going to know best about themselves given what they get from the state, whether from any privateer as pay. To edit everything as they suggest is simply not possible because even when they were in power in two governments, their effect of all their tax changes was not as much as it was in the fourth round of this tax reform. So she... From 2000 to 2003 and in this next worst ever, they were the 5th worst government in the world, so they put them there, here's a table here you don't have to laugh, I'll prove it to you, I have an argument... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175497	It's not a debate club, let's let him finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175498	...and that you, the 5th worst from behind, are the worst. So I say, you have to fight Mr. Maras' arguments and you don't have this answer except that tomorrow you'll squeeze, I don't know, red, we've been following you all, we're not giving you anything, but we're protecting you, we're protecting your protectors, we used to protect the working class, they've left them, we've heard from a presidential candidate who they support is probably going to recognize at the time, and with this kind of opposition that's in this way discussing tax reform, this story when the time and time comes... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175499	You have several replicas, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175500	Thank you very much. My colleague Boric, when I listen to you, I actually realize how much Croatian education lost when you began to deal with politics as a class teacher, you gave a lot of students, and when you see this argument that you easily handle matter, I believe that you were one of the better teachers that students could get. So my recommendation is also a benefit for the Republic of Croatia what you could do to get back into school benches, help education and do what you do best because really this simple can't be explained by everyone. So I'm looking at Kleman now, and he's probably attracted to the quality of the debate, he ran into the assembly because he's heard with what ease and with what confidence Boric's barata facts, every one of you, it's an honor and I'm sorry for the students who lost you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175501	Mr. Boric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175502	Thank you, Mr. Radin, Vice President. I'm glad that my colleague Maras praises me every time, so I have a good influence on him and I worked at school and because I'm a class teacher I've experienced a lot of problems especially in a policy where such hypocrites are used with a dictionary like this to humiliate someone who's a teacher and a teacher because they're doctors of the economy, when they burn down a white-haired or destroy a ministry or entrepreneurs, they're doctors of the economy, we have them no more, it's not just Mr. Maras, so they need to be forced... There's nothing behind them. There's no trails left to be more striking than a few words spoken a day. You'll see, look behind them, there's nothing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am proud to show what I left at school and what I left as chief of staff, which I left as assistant, secretary of state and parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175503	This was at the level of irony and cordonism entirely within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. Second, Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175504	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, dear colleague Boric, as one craftsman, I listen to these stories and I have to admit it's strange, and I don't find it strange, people who spend public money in the public sector looking for salaries, give us more, we do a lot of work, I wonder how much pay they pay, Marić thanks for this untaxable part of up to 4,000,00, it's good for small entrepreneurs, it's good how much you charge, but how much you'll charge tomorrow when they want bigger, when they want a little 1,000,00 euros for one teacher or teacher, I appreciate it, but gentlemen, remember the workers and who work in factories, in Vartekst, in Borov, in Đura Djakovic, in Uljanik, at 3. May and everywhere, as they can raise their wages, where these unions are to influence employers, they're gone. It's easy to be on the budget and talk and smart like a coat of arms what he said That I'm in conflict of interest because I've been working 40 years. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And he was in politics. [[Intruder: Time, time, time]] His failed... [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175505	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure that has priority over the answer. Injury of Mr. Grbin's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175506	An esteemed colleague hurt Article 238, and not in this part when he called me because he has a lot of rights and it is not something that is acceptable, but it is not even a breach of the Rules of Procedure. However, he injured the Rules of Procedure and this article in 238 when he so eclantly insulted all those valuable Croatian citizens, public officials, whether in education, whether in health care or elsewhere, where he practically called them unemployed and denied them the right to seek higher wages. It's a major violation of the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Vice President, I think she deserved a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175507	Time, time. Thank you very much, Mr. coat of arms. You asked for the same violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175508	Mr. Grbin, I didn't insult anyone. I was just talking about public salary from the budget. And I personally, as a man who spent 40 years in the economy, and in the real sector, know how to make a living. And you sir who turned me in for a conflict of interest because I worked 40, now 45 years of shame on you whether you can talk that way. I appreciate teachers and appreciate all public sector workers, but gentlemen turn around and see what they do to workers in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175509	Time. I can't get into your attitudes, everyone's responsible for their attitudes, and everyone's responding to the electoral body based on their views, so I won't give any notice. But we could've saved time. Mrs. Voter. I'm sorry, he's right. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175510	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Misic, it doesn't matter what you said but what your associate understood. My colleagues Maras and the coat of arms always misread whatever you say, and that's their relationship to you as an entrepreneur. They didn't make a mistake in the sense that when they look at you as entrepreneurs, they experience everyone, it's all nonsense to them because their presidential candidate with the Minimal is going to Pantovac says it's normal. So the consultants don't know who, we ask no one, the media doesn't care at all, who he consulted, how much money, who these people are, etc. and a minimumer of normal. At consultations, not on some hard work in craft, but at consultations, and it is presented as great in Croatia with the Minimal, and they experience it and we are not surprised at this debate in the Parliament. We're the ones who need to get them back on track a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175511	Now she's Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175512	Thank you very much. Well, at least one commendation to my colleague, you did not at least detest teachers and teachers as some entrepreneurs in the Croatian Parliament, forgetting that without teachers and teachers there would be no entrepreneurs. Without knowledge and education, you'd be a taboo race almost. Mr. Boric, you insist on holding this historic, historical moment here, you're a bit of a pervert, though, historical fact, so I have to repeat. We did, we cut the rights not only to the employees of education because Croatia was robbed and there was no money. Today, when money has unfortunately enlightens are not on the list of priorities, so here I am asking you as a teacher to teach the prime minister the difference between the base of the coefficient and the supplement and to show him that this is only about political will because there is money. And if you do not give up forgiveness of debt to the University of Mostar and expensive limos in 2019 you already have 400 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175513	Thank you. Mr. Boric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175514	Thank you very much. Mrs. Glasovac, we have a prime minister who knows very well what the base is, which is the coefficient and what's the supplement, and there you can't compare at all. And it's rude to talk to someone who manages and tries to solve everything that's been trying to come down on the back of those teachers and teachers for 30 years and what you've put on their backs to correct everything in the last year. It's that relationship, it's hypocrisy. And you're the ones who stopped at the beginning of that whole story all of a sudden. What about you? Well, you're the last one who needs to order these people anything. That is because you have reduced their wages, their allowances, their coefficients, and all that you have been able to do to them. They didn't matter to you. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175515	I'll give you a warning, don't. Last time we agreed I wouldn't give you any more warning, remember? It's Mr. Greene now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175516	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Boric. Since Mrs. Ikic Baniček took the lead in the town of Sisak, the town of Sisak has shown fantastic results. For example, last week the town of Sisak had a plus, a positive balance on the account of over 8.5 million kuna. Every year due to the successful management of the town of Sisko, the budget is growing and larger than that of Sisak-Moslavina County, where since HDZ came to power, losses have been constantly showing up, so in last year the budget has lost 70 million kuna. But you don't know it, Mr. Boric, and you don't care, so you talk nonsense. And if you knew then it would mean that for the planning of this gentleman sitting right in front of you in 2018 from the European funds, there were 3,3 billion kunas less than planned. According to your logic you said about Mrs. Ikic Baniček then Mr. Maric should also end up in prison. But should I? Well, of course you wouldn't, because that's the wrong assessment, but it's not punishable. For her, he will be punished only by voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175517	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, as a lawyer, you know you can say it differently than talk nonsense, right? ... You know it can be different. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175518	Speaking of the Sisak-Moslavina County, we have such a process if I am not mistaken against some SDP mayor, whom Maras was a sponsor as well as Mrs. It's a bath. They don't care. I say to them, it's all normal. We can't tie that to them. It's not theirs. Minus and pluses, why isn't it plus because of the tax reform in that budget? That's not why, Minister, no, the ability of the mayor who shuts the door of the hall to some club, who doesn't want to make a road to some local board because HDZ is there in power, that's your policy, that's what you do, the division of the people, the citizens, us or them. You didn't care when you put 100% disabled people in the church of St. Mark, you didn't care, it was normal for you, they ran inside, bravo. Great. It's you. And that's what citizens need to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175519	Time, time, time, time. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175520	Comrade Boric, you can see how the opposition of the lax census and the limit of the untaxable... 7500, that's no problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happened to local self-government and 2 billion less that were not compensated, so there were no compensatory measures, they didn't care what would happen to cities and municipalities and counties, that's what this government was worried about and worried about and their neither did or will.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175521	Here you go, Boric. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175522	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Peric, I remember them, so I say we must remind them, I remember Mr. Greek who came here as Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, so he controls finance and regional development, and what does he do to us? It takes us 2 billion to narrate here today about a hundred million kunas that we're going to compensate and write exactly how much to whom. I know exactly how much I'm going to get by the year because we're going to take action. They wrote that they would pay us back 700 million kuna, you know what they gave us? Nothing, one big zero. And we're hearing it as great experts here that we have to watch, listen, they know everything. Citizens must hear that, as Maras says, they must know because we simply deal with people who simply don't want to admit that they were bad, that they didn't know but justify themselves with some kind of legacy or some kind of circumstances. You didn't know, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175523	Thank you very much, we're done with the replicas and now we're going to the last individual debate Mr. Gordan Maras will have. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175524	Thank you very much... Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, this is not a replica, this is a debate. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So thank you very much for the words after this special but very thin we will agree all, debates and by facts and by myself would say what was said, we have to really look back at the current situation in the Republic and scandalous I would say today, a statement and Prime Minister Plenkovic who not only had solved the problem 35 days that there is no school, but today he sent a message to teachers or employees in the education system that they did not understand what he was offering them. So 90% of people today said no to HDZ and to Prime Minister Plenkovic who work in the education system and he told them today not to talk, not to change their attitude and listen to what they are entitled to, but to tell them that they did not understand what it was about and what he offered them. As far as I'm concerned, I have to be really and hard to be surprised and at the debates, here we looked at Mr. Misic here, who explains that teachers have no right to ask, that they are practically as a burden, so it's no wonder that the ruling coalition has no hearing or desire to make justified and meet the legitimate requirements that teachers have put before them. So when you have to decide what to invest in, then you have to invest in what the future holds and that's certainly an education. And then we go back to some topics that are truly good to talk about what happened two, five or ten years ago, but it's much better to talk about what we can do today. And whether the increase in education isolation is Croatia's priority or not is Croatia's priority. And it's a strange communication in the ruling coalition, so let's say the HNS that's being threatened again today under the 58th time I guess it's going to come out of the coalition if Mrs. S. The savage is moving away from the minister's post and as for her participation in the whole story, she almost doesn't exist, so she's nowhere, so she's lost full authority among her fellow ministers and amongst the profession, and I really don't understand why she still insists on staying where she is when she can't do anything anymore. They don't even invite her to meetings. So for the sake of protecting your dignity, the lady should resign and get out of the government, that's precisely why I'm talking to her. So this is muttering her personally in a way that, I would say, no one deserves. And as for the solution to the problem, so it's simple, people need to increase their coefficients. As they increased in diplomacy, as they increased in one piece in some other ministries, as the new coefficients for directors of the ministry's administrations, which will have salaries of 13,14,000 kuna, were invented. So for them the regulation has changed, the coefficients have been formed, and for teachers, teachers, aunts in the cafeteria or in the library, it can't be made for them. And I am glad and proud that people have opposed it and that they do not understand what Boris or Misic is saying here and what's weird is that they do not understand what Minister Maric or Prime Minister Plenkovic is saying, and they should give answers, easily for Boris and Misic, they can say anything here and are not responsible for solving the problem but for raising their hands on Friday, it is their only task to press the green button and vote what the government has served them and Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric are in charge of bringing the children back to school, that is their task. And that people simply after such a long period exhausting for everyone and most of all for children who just don't know where they are, are on holidays, are at school, when school will start, when they'll catch up on what they haven't learned, etc., these problems need to be solved, unfortunately, we have a dysfunctional government that doesn't know how to do it. As far as the law itself and these sets of laws are concerned, it is really unclear why we went twice to discuss when we adopted the budget on the basis of these legal solutions that were not voted. So it's something that I think is unacceptable or what shouldn't be, the laws should be voted first, and then on the basis of them to vote and plan a budget and we've made a budget proposal that fully corresponds to something that we haven't adopted in the parliamentary procedure and so maybe it confuses some of the representatives against Boric some of the TV shows when he doesn't understand what it is planning, what the budget is, in which way it can be planned on this more conservative little or more optimistic way so that on that side of it I can also fool certain shows and, yes, I'll say the same thing here, I'm proud of how Mrs. Ikic Baniček runs Sisak, I think he is doing an excellent job, that Sisak is a different city than it was before her mandate, that there is a lot to be built, and that there is also an ice hall where ice is available and that can also be recreational and carry out certain sports activities and ultimately, about how she runs the city will not decide either Boric or some TV show, but will decide the citizens of Sisak in 2020. What I'm saying here, I agree with some of the things in these proposals, so I also agree, let's say Boric doesn't understand, that when you pay by law in some company, that another way of paying taxes is if you own that company and tax on profits. And it is the right of entrepreneurs to choose how they will fulfil that obligation, whether they will pay the profit tax or whether the success of its firm will be its profits, or whether they will pay the salary twice as much or three times as they have so far. Unfortunately, Mr. Boric doesn't understand it and it would be good for him to organise a small course at the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration, so that people explain that in the case of profit taxes, the same tax is paid, no. So the state pays taxes when you pay it as a profit tax. So there is a lot of ignorance on that side but again I say it is not a problem, Boris or Misic, the problem is that Prime Minister Plenkovic does not solve things that should be dealt with on a daily basis. So we're not going to have schools tomorrow, probably not on Monday, and who knows when classes are going to start, they're very fast and Christmas and New Year's holidays and holidays and everything that goes for each other. So here, as far as this law is concerned, I can say that I think it's not the right thing to do to adopt the budget first, so the laws are being proposed, on the other hand some of these changes can be welcomed, it would be happier to say that the VAT has not changed at all since the start of the mandate, for example, that the untaxable part of the salary is significantly increasing, or a personal deduction, and that in some ways I leave more space for the citizens to have more amounts of net income, and that is what I think can be done at this point but unfortunately the Government is not doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175525	Thank you, too. A few replicas, you guess. First, Mr. Steve Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175526	When someone is born 15, 20 years after the death of the lame Titus when they cut off his leg and he quickly joins the party from some initiatives, and the party buys him the first suit and tie in which he served the army and then the same party to run the state, to run the Ministry of Defence and entrepreneurship, and he never knew anything about it, so that he could also be a member of the Supervisory Board in HBOR so that he could give credit to his boss and his family and others he gave everything to, and then he can stay here only in the Croatian Assembly to race. Until the small hours of the night, and that insults. And when he insults Croatian defenders, how did they call them from the church to flee, from whom did they flee? Why did they go to church? You broke into a church with boots, bats, tonfas, guns, into sacred ground. What were you doing there? What were the defenders supposed to do? So, look for the employers to ask them why you're sending an army to us and the police, why? Is that what you expected? Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175527	Time. Mr. Culey, do you find Mr. Maras offensive to you, do you? Do you feel, do you feel that you have been offended by the findings you had on Mr. Maras as a human being? Do you think so or not? ... We'll get over it, but I find you offensive. [[- Intruder Culey, you don't understand.]] Let's move on, Mr. Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175528	Thank you very much. Look, I'm not going down to Mr. Culey's level because it doesn't make any sense, man has no elemental knowledge, I was born in '74. Sir, you know so much history that you can't say that I was born 14, 15 years after J. Broz Tito died. That's how I'll tell you, '95. Sir, so now he'd be 24 years old, he'd probably be happy if I was 24 years old, and no one can get back. On the other hand, don't be proud of some of the things that have been a violation of the law, we remember how unloved the scenes were, nobody is pleased, nobody is glad about tenting or dragging them here in Mark's square with the police, etc., but that's what you've been potentialing only from HDZ's initiative to bring down democratically elected power, and it should be a shame to you, what you've been using defenders for years to rebel and bring down democratically elected authorities when SDP is in power. And when it's HDZ, there's no demonstration. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] And you should be ashamed of yourself, not me. [[Intruder Radin: Time is inexorable, and now it is...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175529	And now it's Mr. Vučetić's turn, Mr. Vučetić's turn. What are you looking for? No one's looking for anything, I hope. Mr. Vučetić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175530	Here after this nothingness of demand and nothing of debate, I would refer to what my colleague Maras said and refer to the strike of educators. I also supported the strike... employees and I am actively strike and I am on strike, today as an act of solidarity with colleagues who have a lower coefficient than mine, I did not sign up for entry into the Parliament because I expect the government to take away from me at the job where I was paid and from the representative's co-chair, and I would like to compare it at the end of the month that the public knows how much it is taken away from the parliamentary pause, how much it is taken away from the salary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other side, interesting is this verbal level, HDZ representatives began to say that they must hear it, the citizens must hear it, apparently the representatives of HDZ Prime Minister Plenkovic settled in their minds and it is obvious that he began teaching them instead of teachers. It's time for teachers to go back to schools with higher odds Otherwise the minds will be inhabited [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Vučetić.]] with what you don't need to hear. [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175531	Unfortunately, time. Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175532	Thank you very much. I agree, but only in part with your debate because I'm sure Mr. Culey hasn't settled in Mr. Plenkovic's mind. It means because Mr. Culej was brave and he was very fierce about some of the things about the laws proposed by Djakic, he did retreat before Mr. Plenkovic and eventually obeyed the party's discipline and that's what's the problem in this Croatian Parliament, meaning what is supposed to mean, the party in some situations at HDZ and not common sense. There were many members and members of the HDZ on Monday, who were also disappointed by the ruling party's behaviour and the strike had nothing to do with parties unlike Culei, who asked the defenders to destroy the democratically elected power, here politics did not interfere at all, here is the rebellion of the citizens against the government, which is the reason why the government is not in charge. doesn't listen to what's logical about what the citizens want. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175533	Time. As I said to Mr. Culey before, I'm telling you now, you've been replicating Mr. Wolfletich, and you've been replicating Mr. Culey all along. That's what I honestly don't understand, but you're going to explain to me maybe after 4 o'clock. Now it's Mr. Mouse's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175534	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maras, I look at life only realistically, my whole life I've worked and watched realistically what's fair in this system and what's not fair. As for the professor and the teacher, I absolutely don't mind, and they needed to be paid. You've broken their salaries in your government, taken away their goddesses and their regressions. This government has given enough money to professors, and I don't think that's a pay issue anymore. This, personally, as a man who is not a member of any party, I believe that this against the prime minister and against this government continues to be one level of insubordination that has nothing to do with wages, this is quite another story that you want, of course, which you potential and which you support. I'm about teachers to be appreciated, to have good wages, but this is what this government has done, so I don't think I'm against professors, but I'm against reality in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175535	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175536	Thank you very much. I think it's clear to everyone why we support the protest of teachers, teachers, teachers, non-teaching staff, and that's very simple, Mr. Micic. So we don't want to have tomorrow, here's the job obligation, there's been blackmail by the government about the coefficients, we don't want a bad situation in the chambers and classrooms tomorrow. If you can't figure it out, I really don't understand it. So we want the protest to be resolved correctly, slow and I am the first to cheer for Prime Minister Plenkovic to solve it because it is in my best interest that my children are not at home tomorrow, but to go to school. Well, no parent wants his kid to sit at home right now and not get an education. So I want this problem solved as soon as possible, but this isn't how it's gonna work out. They'll only get rid of it in a way that you can touch the coefficients and lift them up. That's what you have to do. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you very much, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175537	Mr. Chury.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175538	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, I'm glad it's here, and now we're actually making it clear to everyone what we've been saying all along is what our basic and main condition and the rest of the government is and that we don't have any questions about it. What was important and what we were saying from the beginning, which is that those who are the only ones who are carrying out this kind of reform that first came into a system after a decade, which is this time education, are adequately paid for it. To introduce one level of justice that we need not only on the subject of teachers but generally on the issue of the entire state and public administration, it's everyone here I think very clearly here. My proposal is certainly to start at this point, to run an analysis and every month or quarter when it is not made, to raise that coefficient so let it start over, but it is important to recognise that those who have done something other than those who have not yet, to encourage others to do reforms and to adequately value it all. That one justice must exist and this government proposal is, and we're glad it just came out and made at least something to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175539	Thank you, time. You still want to answer? All right, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175540	Thank you very much. I said Mr. Hear another thing. So now you ask on the road someone who follows, this everyone follows, so media every day is a very monitored strike of enlighteners, people are interested because it's a very important thing to them. To ask if Mrs. Devereaux was here. A savage decides anything in this whole story, no person would tell you that she decides anything about how this strike will end, which means that the lady has no authority, no possibility of acting. I don't know what she's looking for there anymore. I really don't get it. The gentleman who came to the government yesterday, from Požega, Aladrovic, here it was hard for me to remember the first name now, and give lessons about what she is and what she said. [[Intruder side: Aladrović.]] Well, that's humiliation. If you had what you'd say, if you kept to yourself, you'd get out of the government right away and she'd retire but we don't expect that, of course. I'm just saying it would be good for her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175541	Okay. I realized this whole debate and those replicas about the IRS that they had to do with the IRS because... taxes on education, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Anyway, that was, well, that was why you had those discussions. Mr. Miro Bulj will now be performing finally on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175542	Thank you very much. Here we are finished so the full tax reform for the fourth time, the Honorable Minister, I'm interested, I asked when I was in an individual debate, which is your position and what the effects of the financial impact would be. The effects, you didn't hear that, if you'd shut down the county. The abolition of counties as Croatia's largest early development cancer would essentially have major effects on the spending side so that there would be money and education because you control over counties and education, you control health care, you cannot hire a porter not to report from a governing body or a health institution or school, not to be called prime minister, it was admitted by Ivan Nasic when it was posted by the National, that no porter can be named. Minister, I'd like you to give me an answer when the county is abolished, there would be real reform, if you'd abolished the county, and certainly today the professors would be much more pleased because it's a party-involved factory that exclusively serves to preserve the electoral body and you've given too much authority to the mayors. So that there is no decentralisation in Croatia, there has been a Pharaoh's decentralisation towards the mayors who simply have so much power that any mayor who does not listen to them, so decentralisation of what Boric said, absolutely this decentralisation has not been carried out, the counties are an unnecessary body in the Republic of Croatia, it is a body that has evicted the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, and either you spoke about Sisak-Moslavina County or my Split-Dalmatia. And that's the truth and the fact. Decentralized school money, how's schooling going? He's going to the mayors. Who's calling the school council? In what way? School boards? And the boards are appointed by the mayor's majority section. ... Names, names, names. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Name is the owner Named owner, don't be nervous. [[No, no, that's fine.]] Countys are the brakes of development, so it was IDS, that it wasn't the county, IDS [[But you can't do that.]] It's like HDZ, it wouldn't exist. [[But you can't do that.]] Or the coastal-goran SDP. So you'd fall apart if it wasn't for the county I've only run for mayor and it's the only reform. [[Intruder Radin: Only the Most would exist.]] Fair reform, Your Honor, what are you nervous about? What are you nervous about all of a sudden? What's got into you guys?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175543	Excuse me, please. My parties are lifted here, the parties that have been elected to parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175544	It would disappear, the IDS would also, the Istrian County is the same as in my Split-Dalmatia County, so Furio Radin and Furio Radin's brother would lose his job, probably the problem, Vice President, right. If that's the problem, then I didn't know, I apologize to you if that's your problem, you rightly gave You're right... [[Intruder Radin: The problem is.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175545	Now I'll tell you, now I'll tell you, stop the time. The problem is, you want to end the parties, not the county. We didn't talk about county, you said there wouldn't be those, and those parties, you understand what I mean? You can't end parties in the Croatian parliament, I'm sorry. [[I see you're nervous.]] Go away now, let's move on with time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175546	So you weren't here in the debate, I was when I said you should lift the county, then IDS's... Then the IDS, you're nervous, I guess your brother's the mayor and of course he's got Pharaoh's powers and it's really unimaginable for you that you don't have Pharaoh's powers but the mayors have Pharaoh's powers, you decentralize the funds, and that's how party infrastructure is financed. [[- Intruder Radin, you don't understand.]] That's how it's financed. It doesn't go health care money that we have specializations, that we have arranged, there's never been diagnostic devices up there, there's never been worse health care here in my Dalmatian burn, never health services. Never less doctors who specialize, we don't have the ability to have a radiologist. They don't have a lab on Hvar when they have to take it to Split, from Makarska from Kaštel, and it's county, you haven't decentralized anything, here's a triba cut, here's a triba cut. That's right in agriculture, which are the effects on agriculture of any reform you've given here. You said you and your government were going to export milk to China when you received a Chinese delegation here, i.e. When he was their prime minister or who he was, you couldn't get through the square, that you were going to export milk to China. How much milk did you take to China? I asked you one basic, how many financial effects would be on the spending side if it were to abolish the counties, which are unnecessary, how much of it would go to school and education, how much funding would go to health care, for irrigation, for the survival of people in those areas, because only because of the counties and your decentralisation are the other people who have party cards and whose mayors are in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175547	Now it's time, but we're not gonna end the parties, are we, Mr. Bully? At least that. Mr. Maric has the final word, Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175548	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you all very much for the discussion in this second reading, as in the first, there were several really quality and good discussions. As far as the amendments are concerned, as far as I know, we'll be pleading tomorrow, one of the Legislative Committees is within the scope of the replica, so I don't know if it's all right in business, and then I'll repeat this once again that we accept this amendment for the sake of clarity, precision of Article 16 of the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175549	Mr. Bull's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175550	Here I asked the question, as far as the effect is concerned, how much more resources would be left for both education and health care because I knew, I didn't know that Mr. Radin's brother was mayor, otherwise he might have been more thoughtful here, since his brother the mayor probably offered him that, too, not to ask about it, but I'm asking you, Minister. how much effects would be in billions of kunas, on the spending side and how much could affect education and health care. [[- Mr. Bull.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175551	Mr. Bull, when I interrupt, please stop. Don't speak that way because it's below the level of dignity No, when you said there wouldn't be parties in this assembly if the county were abolished, there wouldn't be these, those and those parties. [[You were interrupting me.]] You do not have the right to talk about the cancellation of parties in the Croatian Parliament The one where you are selected [[I have a right to speak.]] No, you have no right to say that. [[I have a right to speak.]] You have no right to say that. [[I'm right.]] No. You don't. [[I'm right.]] Good, 'cause you're [[You won't be the one to ban me.]] Okay, you have a little more time to finish. [[Intruder: Speakers speak at the same time, they do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175552	Well, you took it from me, please give it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175553	You have a second warning, but we're the end of the debate anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175554	Once again, Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175555	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175556	I ask the minister, the replica is the minister. Minister, I asked you about the effects of abolishing the county, of course it is a major impact and these signs of which we have 5% of GDP, and please tell you honestly how many of your GDP projections will be this year from all of the evictions due to these counties in the budget that will pay for your campaigns and your employees in the counties, party arrests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175557	Mr. Secretary is finished today. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175558	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, Second Reading, P.Z.E. Number 780. Here you go, colleague Chikotic. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175559	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to ask for a break on behalf of the Most Club in order to consult on this tax reform that is not. You approve of my break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175560	I approve, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175561	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian citizens need a tax discharge, they need a higher charge in order to receive higher salaries, and so do our entrepreneurs. High taxes and high tax burden are what symbolises this government. In order for this to happen, we need a government that will cut down on administratively unnecessary people who do not serve their purpose and we need a greater tax discharge to actually get bigger salaries from our citizens. As for the county, they have long since fulfilled their role, the county has not fulfilled its educational role, nor its health role, nor its waste management. Public Administration Reform Action Plan 2014 – 2020, which was adopted during the SDP government in 2015, there is no shift. According to the Ministry of Labour and the pension system of 880 million kuna, you used only 17 million kuna. I am looking for this government report on the measures implemented because this reform is simply not being implemented. Today, Mr Plenkovic boasts that we have a Commissioner for Demography, and in Croatia it is such that our children have neither school nor school since the great demographic policy. It is high time to take responsibility, politically for what is happening in this country and step down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175562	Like I said, the break was approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? Here you go, Comrade Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175563	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I seek a break to repeat once again the facts that are irrefutable, which is that through tax reform in the past 4 years, the government has given Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy about 9 billion cuts in tax liabilities in terms of income tax and profit tax. That's when we look at it staticly, and if we look at it dynamically, then that amount is far higher. However, what is very important, tax revenues in the budget are increasing, but this is not the result of increased tax rates, because when you look at VAT rates, then it is exactly the same as what was inherited when power was taken over. But the revenues in the state budget from the base of value added tax and from the basis of the most excise and profit tax are the result of what the government has started with its burden. So, by leaving a large part of the income to Croatian citizens, the government encouraged consumption, and when you look at the structure of GDP growth, then you will see 2 percentage points in the GDP growth structure, both citizens and Croatia are involved. And these are simply facts, because the one who neglects these facts is malicious, the one who neglects these facts is wrong for him that Croatian citizens have received that money. No one can dispute that these proposed reforms were also freed by the government of the Republic of Croatia, a part of the funds being taxed by Croatian citizens. And what I also want to repeat, the government has made one political decision, gave up the rate reduction, the overall VAT rate from 25% to 24% and has rerouted those funds to raise wages among others and those who strike today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u175564	Thank you. Is there anyone else interested in taking a break? There isn't. Then we move on to 12.55. I'd like you all to be here at 12.55. Thank you. It's 12:45. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.58 HOURS]] Final draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 780. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 1 abstention and 18 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177616	Which three do we have now? So that's what we've already decided, right? We decided to unify the three proposals of the law: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, Provision of Reading, P.Z.E. 775 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 776 - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on protection against domestic violence, first reading, P.Z. Number 777 What? The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Justice, Family, Youth and Sports, for Gender Equality, for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177617	If I miss hearing you apologize, since the united debate on three laws, is there going to be an extended debate time for clubs for 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177618	.../incomprehensible/... Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic will have an opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs are therefore before us the amendments to the Penal Code, the Law on Protection against Family Violence and the Law on Criminal Procedure, so a set of laws that we have a fundamental goal of strengthening penalties in certain segments specifically related to violence, speeding up criminal proceedings to move faster and to actually make decisions as quickly as possible. And clearly the third is a better distinction between offenses from the crime of domestic violence because there is also criminal law and the Law on protection against domestic violence and in order to avoid being able to apply criminal and criminal law for the same factual situation, which is, in fact, by the decision of the Court of Justice of the EU and the European Court of Human Rights, which is not good, we are doing a clearer distinction here. In the case of the Penal Code, apart from what I have already said to tighten the legal legal policy, in the case of criminal offences related to domestic violence, we want to tighten the criminal policy by prescribing different, more severe criminal forms for individual crimes. We also prescribe qualified forms of criminal acts committed towards a close person and the close ones are family members, former spouse or extramarital mate, former life partner or informal life partner, persons who have a common child and persons living in a joint household. We also want to extend the definition of the official person and clearly by this law we want the same answer to what was happening in society, we want to determine a new crime of coercion towards a person who performs matters of public interest or in the public service. There is a major change in the eradication of the criminal act of sexual intercourse without consent, and we end it, and in fact, we put this act into a crime of rape. And we're also erasing the crime of severe disgrace, as you know, we have now an insult, we have slander, we have in the present system a criminal act of severe disgrace, but in fact by analysing practice, we've seen that it's too often not done in the process and in some ways we can sanction it through civil proceedings damages. With regard to the tightening of certain criminal offences related to prohibited sanctions, we have in the violence of criminal offences under Article. In the 179th crime of domestic violence, today, according to the applicable law, the prison sentence is scheduled for up to 3 years, and we propose from 1 year minimum prison to 3 years. We have a sign. The 116th mutilation of female sexual organs, there's a prison sentence prevented today by 6 months. Up to five years old, we're raising here from 1 to 8 years old, and the qualified shape is 1 to 8 years old today and we're going from 3 to 10, we're proposing a new one. Body injury, therefore, from art. The 117th of us today are up to 3 years old and now we raise that minimum means up to 1 to 3 years. Heavy body weight, so today we're from 1 to 8, we're proposing a lift from 3 to 8. Especially heavy bodywork of art. The 119s today is a framework of 1 to 10 years in prison and we suggest that it be 3 to 10. Insane stores, it's up to 1 year old today, we're proposing up to 2 years to be. Sexual harassment from art. 156, today it's up to 1 year and we're proposing up to 2. So, you see in a whole series of these crimes, we suggest that this criminal justice framework, that it be actually raised at a minimum somewhere, somewhere and a minimum and maximum, in any case, we think that such a legislative framework will allow these criminal acts to express more severe penalties that will actually contribute, I think that many who want to commit such crimes, that this is one warning that they will be more severed and that, in fact, somewhere, it appears to give up. We complement existing articles, criminal offenses from art. 139. where we propose a more severe punishment when this crime is committed according to all categories of people close to us and it is possible to prosecute by official duty. Penalty of intrusive conduct of art. In 140 C.E., there is a more severe penalty when it is committed according to all categories of loved ones and is allowed to be persecuted by official duty. The crime of domestic violence 179, this introduces a new consequence in fact, we change the description of this crime where we say today that someone who violates the rules of protection against domestic violence and therefore among family members or close persons and challenges fear for her safety or the safety of her loved ones or brings her into a humiliating position, now, here we would add a humiliating position or state of long-term suffering, which is something where we are spreading where, which makes her a being of this crime. The definition of the official person we have also said will be expanded, all of which is now an official person from a state official, official, official, official or official, employee in a local or regional self-government unit, here we will extend the same, include professionals who perform social care, education and care activities with all of these already existing. We also extend this into a new criminal act, which is a coercion for a person who performs matters of public interest or in the public service. Therefore, according to the person in the exercise of public interest or public servants in performing public service by force or threat, he will directly use force, prevent business from being performed of public interest or public service will be punished, we propose a prison sentence of up to 3 years and for a qualified form of 6 months. up to five years. Sexual relations without consent, it is today a criminal act of art. 152. KZ's, we propose to delete, there's been a lot of actual debate about it and there's a busy position that such a crime should actually be, the being of that crime should be an integral part of the rape crime because it's very problematic this sexual relationship without consent, but what might be even more important, we here suggest tightening the sanctions, so first we had for this valid without consent was 6 months. 5 years and now we're going, so we're raising the minimum from 1 to 5 years, if there was a force use, then we're going from 3 to 10 and now it's from 1, so we're raising that minimum limit. A criminal act of severe disgrace, I said we suggest this law to be deleted because we actually have in our tradition a criminal act of slander and insult. And the law when the criminal year 2011 was passed was a lot of debate whether or not the insult and slander were transferred to the Criminal Law, but then we took the position of the working group that both honor and reputation were of some category that protects both our Constitution and that it would not be appropriate to put such a thing in breach but that it should be protected by the Penal Code, with the change being made here. Sometimes those crimes were meant to be punished, not today. Today it's just a fine. As far as the Family Protection Act is concerned, it's a violation of the law. We're here with all the criminal sanctions provided for by this law we've sharpened everything. Where there was a thousand kuna, we raised her to two, where the prison was scheduled for 30 days, we raised her to 45, 60 because the General Penal Code determined that the prison sentence in the offence couldn't be longer than 90 days. So we have raised all the obstacles here, but what is important in this article 10, which speaks about the types of violence in the family, physical violence, physical punishment here, we have more precisely defined what is physical violence so that we do not come into conflict with the Penal Code, so we have very precisely defined that physical violence is the kind of violence that causes us some kind of physical injury than certain physical abuses, but there are no consequences for any physical injury. The law on criminal proceedings is aimed primarily at implementing an EU directive on legal aid for convicts and defendants in criminal proceedings and the grounds requested in the procedure on the basis of a European arrest warrant, which is something that we must implement and that is what we prescribe by transposing this directive to detainees, suspects, defendants of a weaker property situation in access to defences are not in a more unfavourable position than those of better property and that defence costs are borne by the state. This new institute is the temporary legal assistance of defenders on the burden of budgetary resources, and this is the expansion of the institutes of so-called "the Institute". Poor defense attorney. We have better regulated the issue of exceptions, the concentration of the separation of illegal evidence, the reading of evidence previously carried out without the consent of the parties, we want to speed up the work of the police through the amendments to the law, also determine or extend the lengthening of the investigative prison where the sentence of five years or more severe and delete the preparatory hearing to 15 years where the sentence and erasure of the opening speeches has been prevented. With exceptions, we all know that when the proceedings began, many sought the exemption and judges of the court before which the proceedings were conducted, as well as all those other judges of other courts. We've arranged here, and we've said that an exception can only be sought from the judges where the proceedings are being conducted, so not where the proceedings haven't yet reached. In front of the accused council, as regards the concentration of the proposal to draw up illegal evidence, we have asked for one concentration that this must be immediately put forward a proposal for the withdrawal of such illegal evidence, and now it is allowed to go to several meetings of the accused council, which we consider to enable the abuse of that right and to extend the procedure. Reading previously carried out evidence without the consent of the parties, that is our proposal, we consider it quite an important step because today it happens in procedures to change the president of the council, to change the council, and then after the current regulatory debate begins again and even if the President of the Council and proposes that no evidence is carried out if the party asks for evidence to be carried out then we can secondly carry out these evidences. According to this new proposal, the President of the Council will assess whether it is necessary and without the consent of the parties. Also, as regards speeding up police work on our proposal on its own without the warrant of a state attorney, the police may carry out a proof-of-recognition operation, request the necessary skills except when it comes to autopsy, exhumation, molecular genetic analysis, may also request a physical examination of the use of blood and urine from the defendants and other persons in due time to inform the state's attorney, so there is no need for a special warrant to speed up the procedure. The determination is also important either to extend the investigative prison in the event of an unlawful sentence of five or more. We don't have a chance today, so when an unlawful verdict has been issued where the defendant has been sentenced for five or more years in prison, it is possible, in principle, by these amendments, to assign him and to extend his investigation to a possible finality, because here we consider it to be such perpetrators who pose a potential danger to society and society, we believe that here he has the right to defend himself against such a thing. We are erasing the preparatory hearing in cases where the sentence of up to 15 years has been prevented, and the court can carry it out in proceedings where the sentence is above 15 years. We also delete the opening speeches because we believe that to some extent we will speed up the proceedings and end the unsupervised and expose the parties to the court. We are also coordinating deadlines for the High Criminal Court, which begins on 1 January 2020. Caution measures, we also make two new measures, which is a ban on Internet access and one measure in principle if no judicial decisions are implemented, are complemented by Article 311. The penal code therefore seems to be a new criminal offence. Thank you very much. I suggest we conduct the discussion and for the second reading to prepare the law in accordance with the analysis of your debate, which you will carry out, all of your proposals and remarks that you will make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177620	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. You have more work to do, though, because you have several replicas. The first line has Mr. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. In the replica, although later I will talk much more about the Code of Criminal Procedure, I will concentrate on these measures that are in the Penal Code, which concerns tightening and tightening access in criminal acts against sexual freedom. And in principle, I can support that. But what I ask you to do and what I appeal to, and I hope that you will accept that suggestion from me that we will not remain just at the penalty. The severe punishment itself will bring nothing. They may bring a certain satisfaction to the victims, they may bring some peace to the entire public but they themselves are stricter penalties without adequate support for the victims, without better processing means nothing. I therefore appeal to you that what we have adopted through the Istanbul Convention should also be implemented in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177622	Here's your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177623	Your Honor, we fully agree here. When things actually come into the area of justice, it means that a lot of things didn't work before, and actually the goal is that all those protective, preventive mechanisms, the educational mechanisms actually work so that the less they come into the area of justice at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177624	- Mrs. Crescent. Ines Fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177625	Mr. Secretary, this isn't enough. Over the past five years, 100 women have been killed. And in how many cases, the judges, by punishing the bullyes, gave the most minimum prescribed sentence. What are you going to do that these penalties you prescribed don't go that way again? So the Judicial Academy also has to do its due diligence, not to continue to see those who, after the offence, move very quickly and work for the common good, and those who have committed the most difficult acts get a minimum sentence, none of this is a message. It's the same about rape, and it's the same about violence against women. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177626	Mr. Secretary's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177627	Honorable MPs, this whole set of laws is about to enable a normative framework to impose more severe penalties, so there are no more penalties that are mild, which do not correspond to the doing of deeds, and we here, as you have seen throughout this head, sharpen that legal framework. Somewhere we raise that minimum sentence, somewhere we raise the minimum and maximum, somewhere we raise the maximum. So we really create conditions for it to be sharper. But in order to be sharper, I fully agree with you and the judges must be aware that these are the types of crimes where they should be sharp. And it is clear that our judicial academy will organise a whole series of educations for both our judges and those other participants in the process in order to become aware that we need to be sharper. But it's also clear that everything I've given in response to the previous replica, all those preventive mechanisms must also work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177628	3rd debate, Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177629	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, therefore, in a few, in fact from maybe a year or two of a few of the cases happened when the public condemned certain proceedings by acting both on judicial staff, condemning them does not mean that they were right and that was the reason, not only through the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme, but in fact this set of laws relating to the Penal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure, related to the Law on Protection against Family Violence and these courts for Youth. On our committees, your assistant, Mrs. Poirot. Vedrana Nikolic Simundja gave too many explanations on all parliamentary representatives' questions. In the meantime, however, we have received a letter from the attorney general regarding the Criminal Procedure Act for those acts for which the sentence has been prescribed for more than 5 years and it is referred to that it does not comply with the EU Directive. So if you know anything about it here's what we can say in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177630	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177631	Here, as you can see here, we are implementing an EU directive where we want to also provide those citizens with weaker assets to have a defender on the burden of the state budget. Therefore, once this is in place, I hope that we will adopt it then these citizens will also have the right to defend themselves on the burden of the costs of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177632	Mr. Marko Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177633	Here's a thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to say in your own words the relationship between the Istanbul Convention and the adoption of this set of laws. It is because one of the dominant violence is also violence against the truth and this violence against the truth happens when the world is not scattered by many prejudices and deceptions. One of these scams was created and was an argument in the adoption and adoption of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which is that the Istanbul Convention contains gender ideology. For example, I would like to make it clear that the world's dissociative assembly is the relationship between the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and these laws. Did ratification motivate the motionor to perform with these changes as well? Because it's extremely important because of this category that I'm going to talk about in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177634	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, as far as the Istanbul Convention is concerned, we already have certain elements that the Istanbul Convention requires to be implemented. So even before the ratification of the Istanbul Convention through the Criminal Law on Protection against Family Violence, we have already strongly raised those standards in our legislation. The issue of the functioning of this should be ensured by the entire infrastructure so that all these mechanisms can function. But as far as our Family Protection Act is concerned, it had already had these elements in which the Istanbul Convention has, and we ratified it afterwards. As far as the level of punishment is concerned, as far as this criminal framework is concerned, the Istanbul Convention does not prescribe certain things, but as far as the types of criminal offences are concerned, we absolutely have that well-defined and well-defined. Let us not forget that we also have crimes of hate crimes that are very wide and cover the whole series.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177635	At the end of Mrs. Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177636	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. This set of laws certainly came under public pressure and resulted in an initiative by a whole initiative called "Save Me". The creation of this initiative has occurred precisely because of the terrible cases of both Daruvar and the violence of Pag and a series of other terrible cases that we have witnessed. In a way, tightening sanctions, we expect to have results, but today we are on a round table that we have heard a really worrying thesis, which is when a bully stays in the house, gets a six-month sentence, he waits a few months for the execution of that sentence. If we give him a year now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177637	Time. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177638	If we give him a year now, if a year's sentence is prescribed, and he's still sitting there waiting for the sentence to be executed, the woman's been in the safe house all this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177639	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177640	This is a matter related to the early departure to the execution of the sentence, it's the subject of the second law, the Code of Penalty. That law is in the works, and we're going to get out by the end of the year with this first-reading law, and I think we're going to be out by the end of the year, where we're prescribing important, much faster deadlines. So when someone has the power to rule that they have nothing to wait for at home for long enough, they have to go to prison immediately. Where there is no power under the Law on Protection against Family Violence, we have those security measures, meaning banning access to a person, banning such or such a relationship with that person, we already have that in that law. And now, by this law, we prescribe that it is a violation of the court's decision that prescribed this particular crime. So we're doing a normative mechanism that needs to stop what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177641	Thank you very much. Anybody in front of the board? Here you go. Mrs Sabina Voter, Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality at the 30th session held on 6 November 2019 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Criminal Law, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Protection against Family Violence. The Committee considered those proposals as an interested working body in accordance with Article 179. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the debate was held together as well as here in the Croatian Parliament. What has been crystallised in the debate is certain that the members and members of the committee supported the proposed amendments to both laws. They welcomed the tightening of legal policies in the form of higher special minimums and maximum prison sentences, however, it is also pointed to the extensive application of provisions on judicial mitigation and a mild policy of judicial punishment against women. The debate also further addressed the proposal to question the issue of limitations in relation to the offences of sexual abuse and the exploitation of a child in view of the devastating consequences on the life of children and their subsequent ability to file criminal charges within the deadlines set. This would allow children to initiate a criminal procedure at a later stage of life when they are able to apply, thereby removing the limitation factor of the limitation period. As far as this second law is concerned, the speed of the sanctioning procedure and the speed of the sanctions vis-à-vis the criminal proceedings have also been shown. They supported the committee members and members and welcomed the proposed amendments. It is stated that the judiciary condemns below 10% of the total number of all perpetrators of violence to unconditional prison sentences, while others are punished by relatively mild fines or conditional prison sentences and by working for general good. Among the proposed amendments to the Law on Protection against Family Violence, the most significant newspaper highlights the amendment to Article 10(1) in a way that instead of physical violence, violence is prescribed by the application of a physical force resulting from no physical injury. I just have to point out that a representative of the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality has pointed out a problem with the distinction between offenses and crimes of domestic violence. In fact, since there is no unique and clear judicial practice, it happens that serious cases of violence are not recognized while verbal insults are processed simultaneously, isolated incidents that do not have the right violent nature. The Ombudsman’s Office also called for consistent implementation of the definition of domestic violence referred to in Article 3b of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, to consider extending the definition of close persons referred to in Article 87. Criminal law in the sense that persons in the current or former intimate relationship are included in the sense that they have or do not have children in common, regardless of whether the perpetrator has ever shared or shared the same residence with the victim. However, you are all already familiar with all of this through consultation with the interested, interested public. I must only conclude in the end that the Committee on Gender Equality has unanimously accepted both proposals of the law, and all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate have been sent to you in order to draw up a final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177643	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Okay, we're moving on to the debate. It's Mrs. First. Ines Strenja who will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177644	I thank Mr. Chairman, I welcome the minister with my assistant, so this isn't enough, but it's not just a message to you, it's a message to the entire government, so it's not fast enough and it's not enough right now. So, at this point we're going with the first reading, and you know how long it's been since the adoption of Istanbul, since the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, we're changing the law, today we can hear that we're going to start six more shelters and we're going to establish a phone that will be reported by victims of violence, that's not enough, the Republic of Croatia has had to do a lot more. In the last five years. 100 women, hundreds and hundreds suffer physical abuse, psychological abuse and their children and have no protection from those most called for. So any debate on domestic violence necessarily involves the problem of protecting victims of domestic violence. Experience has shown that domestic violence generally has an upward line, so after relatively mild forms of violence they follow much harder, and that it is not about isolated incidents, but about periodically repeated acts of violence. When it is added to this and that, in the case of domestic violence, it is always about the act of violence, the physically superior person over the weaker one, it is clear why it is right here that the victim's protection is put in the first place. The necessity to provide family violence victims with special additional protection is the reason for the adoption and need of specific legal legislation in this area. I believe that Croatian society still needs to really recognise the problem of domestic violence and the need to create assumptions for its prevention, to realize and to require tasks, there is a need for the existence, clearly and clearly of the legislative framework, but also its effective implementation in practice, and we are not witnesses to it. Violent regulation, e.g. Prescribing domestic bullying and as a criminal act and as a violation without criteria which would clearly distinguish one of the other criminal acts and lead to such a solution in the practice of unacceptable solutions, and if the same action of the violent conduct of water and criminal and criminal proceedings violates the fundamental procedural principle of non-bis and I am going, so no bis and I am going is fundamentally human law and a principle that prohibits an individual from being tried twice in the same thing. If only one procedure is conducted, criminal or criminal because of the lack of clear demarcation criteria, an assessment of the qualification of conduct as a criminal offence or offence will determine the most common police officer to question the legal certainty of citizens. There is therefore no doubt that the upcoming amendment of the Penal Code should be used to reshape the existing criminal legislation, so as to set clear criteria. It should be pointed out that in the case of domestic violence regardless of whether it is a violation or a criminal liability of a bully, it is always necessary to place a victim and its effective protection in the first place, and thus to remove the cause of violent behaviour. Therefore, the appropriate and precise normative which will provide a legal framework for the achievement of the above is only the first initial and easier part of the task. However, what is far more difficult is its effective implementation in practice. This has been pointed especially to recent cases of domestic violence with us that have ended with fatal outcomes. Each of these cases left a bitter taste and raised inevitable questions, whether the death could be prevented, why the victim was not protected, why the existing instruments for the protection of victims of domestic violence were not implemented and who was responsible for it. Such and similar issues will continue to be raised until the system provides for conditions for the implementation of existing rules on the protection of victims of domestic violence, and individuals in charge of their implementation shall not be liable for their failures. According to statistics on 10 cases, only one woman reports that she is a victim of violence, but that still doesn't mean that she can leave out of a violent relationship, confirms this and statistics according to which about 70% of women after submitting their statement of violence, the same and withdrawing because of fear, sometimes because of environmental pressure or mistrust in institutions. Many women live in violent relationships for 20, 30 and more years. It is important to clarify that the beginning of violence is not a slap, it comes only at the end, and before such a physical woman experiences painful psychological violence, manipulation, separation from friends and family, economic violence, control and threats and so forth. The situation also makes it even more difficult to blame the victims for the violence they have suffered more often, so by blaming themselves, victims of violence do not come from such an environment, they do not leave such an environment. So, the first step is legal change, and then the second important step is education of police officers, social workers, lawyers, judges and judges, while long-term change will be achieved only by an adequate education system that will teach our children violence because about 60% of young people have already experienced some form of violence, which has shown research. So these changes still require one political will, a change of relationships in our society, and I believe that we have not yet been prepared for it. So starting with a police force who often arrests a bully and victim through the CZSS, where victims often don't get all the information they need on available assistance, such as having the right to a free lawyer, and all the way to the judiciary that in practice have to give minimum legal penalties to bullies, even conditional ones so far as there have been monetary or shortest prison sentences after which the bully returns to the common household. When a woman leaves a violent relationship, there are often no basic economic means to move her children to a sub-optimal apartment and, with constant departures to the CZZS, to the courts of psychotherapy and other treatments needed by her and the children, there is no time to work full-time. So a little more shelter. Currently, 6 more shelters are planned to be established immediately in Croatia. This is an emergency means that in some areas, directly contact the mayor, not even all of those institutions or NGOs, means associations that have been funding and caring for themselves for years and have shelters for women and are trying to meet these tasks, that each county has its own shelter and that a unique phone number is being established where women will answer. I'm not going to talk about that number at all, but 30 years ago I started a phone in the SOS River to help women victims of violence, in the '90s, and then we had a phone where women could answer. It is completely incomprehensible to me especially when we know that in a few days you can get and organize a free phone, that today we still have as much time as we have since the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, ratification of the Istanbul Convention, we still do not have a unique number for women to answer. But only the phone isn't enough. Today we could also hear that unfortunately all shelters are still projected. That's absolutely not enough. So certain counties, certain groups that run the shelter have no capacity to write a quality project and withdraw money. And then they come into a situation that either they're going to take care of women or they're going to write a project that they're going to be able to finance those shelters with, and then these shelters are dependent on donations. So then you have one shelter that's 5 km away from a bakery that gives them bread from today but doesn't have a car and then women walk every day to that bakery and take that bread and walk 5 km back to that shelter bread, etc. I won't even tell you, it's very painful stories that we can hear from women who fight lionishly for those women they care about. So what's also mentioned several times, it's examples of bad practice and I won't talk about bright examples of homes for women victims of violence which are also very much, in many counties, in my county, it's an institution that's been working since the war, the institution of St. The Anna in which women and years of care live in our local community at a secret location but absolutely in some way with a subport of everyone in my county who recognized that they co-financed you and even helped those women in somehow returning to normal life, finding jobs but that's my county, some are the same. Some have gone completely deaf. You have counties that set out for shelters 0.01% and you have counties that stand out 0.16%. It's all too small. And I'm not going to talk about those counties that are headed by mayors who are domestic thugs. And no one can do anything to them. I'd like to know which shelter, which secret location his wife will be hiding in when she has to run again if he's the one who's making arrangements with our ministry where that shelter is going to be. So, what Croatia should show such mayors, it is absolutely unacceptable, so the thumb down for the mayor who is a bully, and not a respectable one, we are also receiving him in these Croatian parliament halls. So, examples of poor practices in the work of competent authorities who curse women victims of violence, what do they say? They complain about not taking action, so very often, even in 33%, not taking any concrete action by the competent authority to cover up and reduce the problem and justify the violent behaviour of employees, those who should have been available to them and who are in contact with women. A special custody problem, a special problem. The problem of material status, financial, material and property problems, including particularly issues related to the right of co-ownership and use of property for the purpose of housing, the bully stays in the house, she goes outside, division of property, etc. 22%. Dispute in the conduct of competent authorities and various bureaucratic obstacles 16%, so this is a survey that was conducted among all these women in the shelter. Care, special problems related to custody decisions, inadequate treatment of children in terms of violating or ignoring their well-being. You can imagine how a woman who was beaten barely got out of her life, remember the time he beat her up and put her in the trunk, and he still beat her with a hammer, which, like his children, must lead her to visit a prison because otherwise she comes into a situation that does not make it impossible for her to meet such a father with children, to take custody of the children. What kind of message is that to those kids? It is absolutely unacceptable and we still have it in Croatia. After that, discrimination, very often equating guilt between the two partners to corruption. So, most women, as much as 54% say that first contact with an institution, police or the CZSS established after several years on average 10 years of violence. For 10 years, this has been happening in our environments, among our colleagues, among fellow doctors, lawyers, workers, teachers, our neighbors, our relatives. Unfortunately, we didn't recognize this problem enough. Mr. Minister, these changes alone are not enough, this government has not shown enough agility to do anything to protect women from violence in this country. MOST independent lists will support these changes but we expect other moves as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177645	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh's turn to speak for the GLASs Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177646	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. At first, I would like to declare that the Civil-Liberal Alliance Club will support these amendments, i.e. amendments to these three laws, but we would like to express our not only dissatisfaction with the practice but also with the general position of the Government, because it actually results in one hypocrisy that shows that action is insufficient, slow and ultimately not effective. So here's the fact that these three laws after a month of very intense public debates about the problems that need to be solved comes here in the first reading and we don't know when they'll come to the second reading and on the other hand, we've adopted the laws on holidays and the law that introduces the new order of order of Franjo Tuđman, so these are our priorities and these are the things that they can wait for. So you can actually see that the government's position is hypocritical. We also understand why, in the ruling coalition, there is a good part of those and among them are their voters who hold the figure in their pocket or on the other hand who openly criticise the government whenever it goes this way, so generally taking into account the implementation of the standards of the Istanbul Convention. We are witnesses and we can turn our heads all we want, we can stick our heads in the sand as much as we want, but we are witnesses of a process where our society becomes a society of violence. It's not just verbal, it's not just on social networks, it's not just about hate speech, it's about action. The fact is that we live in a society that has a deep patriarchal root and the fact is that violence has been before. But it is also a fact that we live in the 21st century where we are aware of the basic things of man's behavior that long ago rose to two feet, who thinks with his own head, who lives in the free world and who lives and builds a free thinking community in a democratic society in which violent people and those who think that violence can be solved the problem must not be marginalized, not overrun but sanctioned. These changes stem from, among other things, the fact that the public has exerted great pressure based on a whole series of cases of judicial practice that proved scandalous. And it is not true that there has always been a reason for it to be an unspeakable regulation but for different actions. And it's not just these questions, our courts generally have very different actions in many things and the Supreme Court is doing almost nothing to even up judicial practice and, among other things, the lack of trust in institutions, the uncertainty in the face of institutions, the uncertainty in the rule of law, and that means ultimately, the lack of that rule of law. For the justice that is slow, the righteousness which is not in due time is not justice. It may be a moral pleasure but if it has spent human lives and fate in the meantime, if it has destroyed people, then we cannot talk about just society. What we are doing today by discussing these three laws is only one of the steps to be taken in implementing what we call the Istanbul Convention. The very fact that it exists as such and that it has been adopted at the level of an international organisation that has 47 members says that this is not just our problem, this problem exists, that is, in all Member States of the Council of Europe, so both Asian and European. And many have brought their burdens to traditionalism, the patriarchs, but we all work together to establish standards, practices and lifestyles that will guarantee better tomorrow for people living in the Member States, the Council of Europe than it is today. We all need to be in the interest of each day being, every next day being a day of new better practice and new better standards. But we can't easily go over the cases that are mirrored here in reality like a hand in the eye, like an insult to the human mind and reason. And you need to react as soon as possible and with as high levels as possible to get messages like that so you never hear it in marriage again, from an address that's paid for in public money. Other than that, I'm not talking about sanctioning those who are directly abusers. The victims of domestic violence, in this case, are the ones that are our concern when we discuss these three laws are by many things and on many occasions the victim, so it's not just one suffering, it's not sacrifice or suffering in one single act. All statistics suggest that these sufferings are reproduced in the very fact that 9 out of 10 women do not report violence we should stop and ask ourselves what it says about our society, what it says about institutions, what it says about people's trust in institutions. He's saying the worst, because whoever had the confidence that the institution wouldn't leave him in the clear if he hadn't exposed him to a new round of violence, he would have reported and reported it. But if you have cases that even after the report of violence, women are mass withdrawing their statements because they are absolutely clear that they are left alone, that no one will protect them from having nowhere to go, then it is even worse than the fact that violence as such is happening. We will probably never experience a day, to live in a society where there is no violence as such, but I guess one day we will experience a society where violence is not welcomed, tolerated, and not silenced. When we talk about women, we think of children, of course, because they are always, always in families, also victims. In a small number of cases, it's also husbands, it's men, but when we talk about victims of domestic violence, then we talk about everyone who endures violence. And what's happening to them? On one side of the institution do not provide protection, they know that a very, very long process in which they will prove that they are victims will take a long time until he who is the perpetrator who is the bully is punished. It'll take a long time before he gets to serve his sentence at all. In the meantime, who can comfort her, if we don't do anything to build a network of institutions from safe houses and beyond, if the church turns its back on them, if it tells them in the beginning that it doesn't support the Istanbul Convention platform and it's because of all the crazy things they don't write inside and that's their message. You're looking for spiritual help. So this is just one, one segment of everything that we, as first of all states, because it's in charge of it, we have to make all the elements of prevention of protection, recovery of damage wherever it is actually possible to rise to a higher level to become functional. We appeal to the Ministry and to the Government, to come with a second reading as soon as possible and to have these laws come into force as soon as possible in order to immediately become part of our case law and to do everything you can, not just through the Academy, to assist judges in implementing new practices and in identifying these differences that are being introduced, in identifying the rise in levels of minimum and maximum penalties. Also in identifying new solutions when it comes to criminal and criminal relations, they also need help because they are probably a part of them too. They must condemn the bully, they must also have a clean situation and know that they are judging the legeartis, clean, clear and that the law also protects them. I repeat, the Voice Club will support these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177647	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Maria Jelkovac's turn to speak in the presence of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177648	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is a brief review of these three legislative amendments. First of all, I will also say something about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code adopted in 2011, which came into force in 1.1.2013 and has been amended four times so far. The objective of these 5 amendments to the Penal Code is to strengthen criminal legal protection against domestic violence, and therefore an amendment and addition of the legal description of the crime in the family referred to in Article 179a is proposed. The penal law in a way that introduces a new consequence of initiation, which is a state of long-term suffering and tightens the sentence from the current minimum of 3 months prison goes to a minimum of 1 year. Furthermore, the definition of a rape offence referred to in Article 153 is changed in such a way that any sexual relationship without consent and even when no force or threat to life or the body of a raped person or another person is considered to be a criminal part of a rape. For this reason, it is proposed to delete the criminal part of sexual relations without the consent of Article 152. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The existing articles of the Penal Code have been supplemented for the criminal offence of the threats referred to in Article 139 and for the criminal offence of intrusive conduct referred to in Article 140 in such a way that a more severe penalty is prescribed when a criminal offence has been committed according to all categories of close persons and it is possible to prosecute under official duty. In addition, it is proposed to extend the definition of the official person referred to in Article 87(3). The criminal law in a way that, with the existing categories of officials, professional workers from the activities of social care, education and education, a new criminal act of coercion is also prescribed for the person performing public-interest or public service tasks. This bill proposes tightening the legal criminal legal policy of punishment against individual offences. It is also proposed to supplement the criminal offence of non-execution of the judgment referred to in Article 311. A criminal law incriminating the non-compliance with an independent precautionary measure by a court ruling. In the end, it is also proposed to delete the criminal offence of serious disgrace referred to in Article 148. The penal code and the damage will be able to claim damages in civil proceedings. Finally, the proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code will provide for stronger criminal protection of victims of certain serious criminal offences and, as is also significant, the definition covering officials. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure, which was adopted in 2008 by certain provisions entered into force in 2009 and the law entered into force as a whole on 1.9.2011. What may not be the best thing, which is the fact that the law has been changed seven times so far, and these are the 8th changes, which would mean that the law should be experienced in the future, so we should pass a new law so that it no longer sees changes. The most important reason for these amendments is compliance with Directive 2016/1919 on legal aid for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings and the requested person in the procedure on the basis of a European arrest warrant. The aim of these amendments is also to accelerate the criminal procedure and strengthen the precautionary measures. The Directive requires that detainees, suspects and defendants of a weaker property status in access to defences be not in a more unfavourable position than those of better assets and that their defence costs be borne by the state. The Directive aims at strengthening the procedural position of suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings and for the purpose of ensuring the rights referred to in Article 6(3), points C of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The law on criminal proceedings and is now laid down in Article 72 of the criteria under which the defendant exercises the right to defend himself on the burden of budgetary means but it does so at later stages of the procedure while this Directive imposes that obligation already in the earlier stages of the proceedings and in the previous proceedings. This right shall be recognised by the arrestee with a check of the property situation i.e. its statement that there is no means for defence costs and in addition to that criterion, the right to defend the burden of budgetary resources is recognised in the proceedings for criminal offences for which the prescribed prison sentence is more than 5 years old. According to the current solution, the paper is that the judge decides on this right, and this is due to the urgency of acting at the earliest stages of the procedure because it is available through duty. In the event of a court’s application for a ruling on the previous issue, it is prescribed that the court will suspend the proceedings and that the appeal against that solution is not permitted and that there is no statute of limitations of prosecution during the duration of the proceedings. Some newspapers are also proposed for precautionary measures to strengthen the institute, especially when the maximum term of the investigation is up. As a new precautionary measure, a ban on Internet access has been imposed. As new solutions that speed up the criminal proceedings, they shall be proposed in respect of the exemption when a request for the exception of a senior court judge is only possible after the case is brought to a higher court on the ground of appeal. It is then proposed that the party's indictment council must immediately put forward a proposal for the release of illegal evidence. It is also proposed to be able to read the evidence previously provided without the consent of the parties when changing the President of the Council or the Judge. It is also proposed that the police can perform an evidence-recognition shop independently without the warrant of a state lawyer and then request the necessary skills other than autopsy, exhumation and molecular genetic analysis. Then ask for a physical examination and taking blood and urine from the defendants and other persons who are obliged to inform the state's attorney in due time, which will ultimately lead to faster and more effective police treatment. This proposal allows for the determination or extension of the investigation prison in the event of an unlawful sentence of 5 years or harder when the court will always determine an investigative prison and when the maximum term of duration has expired. Now, the court has no possibility of keeping the defendant in the D.A.'s jail if the maximum term of the duration has expired and neither has been determined. Furthermore, the preparatory hearing will no longer be conducted in criminal proceedings for which a sentence of up to 15 years is prescribed. And in criminal proceedings for which a prison sentence is prescribed for more than 15 years, only if the court assesses that there is a need for its implementation, which also speeds up the procedure. In order to speed up the procedure, it is also proposed to delete the opening speeches because there is no point in introducing the parties to the court. The future High Criminal Court begins with the work of 1.1.2020, it is proposed to decide in the second degree on complaints against decisions of the county courts, unlike the current decision on complaints against decisions of the county courts and the High Criminal Court decides on appeals against judgments of municipal and county courts. In conclusion, this proposal, other than the implementation of Directive 2016/1919, will also speed up the criminal proceedings through the previous proceedings but also in relation to the proceedings before the accused council and the debate. In order to transpose the Directive, it is necessary to provide funding in the state budget for the implementation of this proposal of the law and to provide for funding in the framework of the State budget for 2020 and projections for 2021 and 2022. As regards the Law on Protection against Family Violence, I would like to point out that this law was passed the first time in 2003, until then there were two provisions in the Family Law on domestic violence. A new law was passed in 2009 to remove shortcomings in the 2003 law. 1.1.2018 entered the new Law on protection against domestic violence and the entry into force of the new Penal Code. The objectives of this bill are, above all, to strengthen the legal policy of punishment for all forms of domestic violence. We see this from increasing fines and prison sentences, then reviewing the forms of domestic violence in line with the definition set out in Article 87(8). The Penal Code, i.e. the extension of the circle of close persons to which the Family Protection Act applies, which means that it proposes to apply to all relatives according to the tariff to the final second degree. The basic characteristics and legal consequences of the proposed changes are to amend the right to qualify for physical violence as one of the forms of domestic violence in order to allow for a clearer distinction of the infringement from criminal law. According to the new proposal, physical violence will be qualified as a physical force that did not cause physical injury, for example. Pushing, which is a violation, and if there's a body injury, then it's a felony. Due to these changes in the legal policy to combat criminal conduct, it is assumed that the result will be stronger and more general and special prevention of punishment and better protection of the victim. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional appropriations in the budget. And finally, I'd like to say one more thing, we can't expect the violence in society to go away just by prescribing all the laws. In this case, in these three proposals of the law, the criminal policy has indeed been tightened because it is intended to send a message that those who commit the most serious violence and the most serious crimes will be adequately punished. However, as regards the prevention of violence, I think that in society we need to do much more, and we need to know that adequate protection would work in the best possible way, all elements of the system must function, so that first and foremost, we need to strengthen all our institutions that meet both the victim and the perpetrators of the crime, first and foremost with the centres for social care and police and courts, so they must all be further educated and supported that they can deal with this problem as best as possible and combat violence in society. The HDZ Club will support all three proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177649	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177650	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister. So, I've come up with my discussion in several parts, but since it's a united debate, I'm going to say something first about amendments and additions to the Penal Code. We have before us an important amendment to the Penal Code with the emphasis on strengthening criminal protection against violence. We have been witnessing in recent months how we have increasingly committed the most serious crimes that bind us to women's rights which put us in a position to access this topic adequately and without pushing our heads into the sand. In addition to the Penal Code, the definition of the crime of rape referred to in Article 153 shall be pointed out. The criminal law, in this regard, certainly non-consensual sexual relations, even when no force or threat to life or a body raped or another person by new will be considered a criminal act of rape. What we have been warned of for years by various civil society associations dealing with women victims of domestic violence is sanctioning every non-consensual sexual relationship as a crime of rape. In order to raise awareness of the need for the current definition of sexual relations without consent has been introduced into our Penal Code as set out in some foreign legislation and has meant the case when there is no use of force and threat, but neither appropriate consent. By deleting part of sexual relations without consent referred to in Article 152. The criminal law cited by the legislator will also result in a change in the catalogue of the criminal offence referred to in Article 14(3). Penalty law. As we have read in this way, the legislator is also intervened in Article 154. The Penal Code makes serious crimes against sexual freedom and suggests that all qualified forms prescribed by the article in question represent circumstances which make the rape crime more difficult. The proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code will provide for stronger criminal protection of victims of certain criminal offences, strengthen the protection of offences against life and the bodies referred to in Articles 116, 117, 118 and 119 through the tightening of prohibited penalties for qualified forms of those offences. The papers shall also strengthen the criminal protection of part of the infringement of the rights of the child referred to in Article 117. A criminal law that achieves an increase in the specific minimum of prison sentence for the fundamental form of criminal offences committed. This bill provides stronger protection for victims of individual crimes against sexual freedom which also raises the minimum sentence of prison for the crimes of the fornications referred to in Articles 155 and 156. We have also read that the bill extends a more significant expression of the official, which would include the status of the official and social care, education and education staff, which we certainly support. I also take the opportunity to point out that the applicant has not intervened in the definition of close persons, which is necessary in order to ensure consistent implementation of the definition of violence in the family of art. 3.b of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention of violence against women and domestic violence. Under this concept, domestic violence and violence between former and current partners are considered, regardless of whether the perpetrator shares or shares the residence with the victim. So domestic violence is not only a widespread social problem that harms individuals, families and society as a whole, but is also a crime. It also requires not only determined social condemnation and activities in terms of prevention, but also unforgivable social disapproval and a equally strong response from the judicial system. The amendments to the law are positive, however, it is necessary to work on relations in society in the first place, in the sense that no one can justify violence, whether it is family-oriented towards a woman or someone else. Penal Code is a material law and will not change the behavior of society, the thing is that any behavior should, to any such behaviour, be responded immediately and not only as a citizen but also by institutions. Institutions must take all measures to stop violence. These legal changes are a good solution and suggest a forward movement but not fast enough. The basis of previous analyses has shown that the lack of awareness and ignorance of violence is a major problem for our society, since the report of violence is very small. Women victims often tolerate risky and violent relationships and seek justification in external factors of society, diseases, or other circumstances. We stress that the big problem is just facing the victim with violence. Violence is often unnecessarily delayed, which may take years in the hope that the perpetrator will change. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the limit of violence that a woman as a victim sets is high, or a large majority of violence she is willing to characterise as normal behavior by the perpetrator. Often such sacrifices are not familiar with their rights or the fact that they suffer any violence at all. I believe that society must regain consciousness about and deal with such situations and react and in no way ignore any form of violence. In this sense, of course, it is necessary and systematic education in the education system, sensitizing the problem of violence against women, raising the awareness of the whole society that violence against women and domestic violence is an unacceptable violation of human rights, and as a society, we must strongly and without exception condemn any violent behaviour. We at the club certainly support these changes that extend the definition of rape, stricter penalties for rape, coercion and without coercion, as well as rape... the delusion of the existence of consent, as well as the increase of minimum sentences for domestic violence from 3 months to 1 year in prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also support stricter penalties for inflicting bodily injuries of genital mutilation with an increase of 1 to 8 years in prison compared to the current one, which is between 6 months and 5 years. We also welcome the increase in penalties for labour and sexual harassment, as well as better protection of employees in the social care system as treatment as officials. As for the proposal of the Law on protection against domestic violence, I believe that there is certainly a debate on the protection of the most important elements of society, which is family. Through these changes, it goes in the direction of protection of members within the family. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in this Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on protection against domestic violence more clearly distinguishes violent behavior within a family belonging to a sphere of criminal responsibility than the conduct that constitutes a criminal offence. I would point out here that the question of how to process domestic violence is a multidimensional problem that requires a comprehensive approach and a view of the criminal and criminal processing of domestic violence. We should also make a distinction between offenses in the family, and we often witness that serious acts of violence are prosecuted criminally, and vice versa that easier acts of violence are prosecuted. What I would particularly underline, which is not covered by these amendments to the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, is sanctioning so-called sanctioning. Partnership violence, in spite of strong similarities with persons in the marriage and out-of-marriage community, partners who do not still have adequate legal protection in the Republic of Croatia from the violence they are exposed to by partners, i.e. the protection of victims of partner violence, have not yet found a legislative solution in an appropriate manner, or consistent manner. I believe that, with the existing terms of family and close persons or with marriage and the extramarital community, formal and informal life partnership, kinship, matrimonial, or joint household should also cover the relationship between private partners who did not have a common residence or their common life does not meet the requirements for the existence of an extramarital community, which is, therefore, directly contrary to Article. 3.b Istanbul Convention. In our day, we had the opportunity to read a newspaper text entitled saying enough for ourselves. It reads, Croatia is the easiest, Croatia is the least in Europe, as many as 95% of the attacks are treated as only a violation, and the vast majority of the family abusers get fines or parole. One of the key issues is the problem of the level of sanctions imposed on perpetrators by courts or the application of existing rules. It is certain that one of the advantages of criminal sanctioning can certainly be specified by the speed of the proceedings, and the resulting and faster imposition of sanctions compared to the Penal Code. On the other hand, the fact is that as a criminal offence, offences are listed in criminal proceedings that are easier than criminal offences by nature, so the level of punishment as well as the social severity of the convictions which bring sanctions is certainly milder than those which can be pronounced in criminal proceedings. The studies, therefore, carried out under a single project, of a European project actually carried out by the Advocate General for Gender Equality, indicate that in a sample of 470 misdemeanor judgments, the courts are more prone to softer punishment policies by measuring the sanctions imposed. Thus, the average fine was 1.727 kuna, which is relatively close to the prescribed minimum of 1,000 kuna. The average conditional sentence was 21 days, with an average delay of 10 months, while the average sentence of the prison was 19 days. It is evident that the judicial policy of punishment in these forms of sanctions is only moving in the lower quarter of the repressive range offered by the legislator. I also believe that it is necessary to extend the circle of persons subject to the provisions of this law. In fact, we believe that violence in intimate, adolescent relationships should also be sanctioned as domestic violence because it has all the characteristics of family violence because it happens amongst close people. Violence among young intimate partners can include both physical, sexual and psychological abuse, stalking, control, coercion that can occur personally or through technology that is today highly developed, which affects the victim of this violence and puts it as a special, especially vulnerable because of its age and maturity. The threat of young people especially children who, even before their adulthood, enter into informal intimate and partner relations that have no characteristics of the community and in such relationships become victims of violence require a solution for this group. I will also point out a characteristic example that I also spoke of on the parliamentary committee, which is therefore related to the change in the prescribed penalties and should certainly be improved by the regulation of higher legal minimums for the payment of fines. However, we have an unusual situation, and this is the basic form of the work referred to in Article 22(1), so it is about slapping, hitting or pulling hair, insulting, etc., a minimum penalty of 2,000 kuna is prescribed. As long as a misdemeanor to a driver who's moving at a speed greater than. However, we have an unusual situation, and this is the basic form of the work referred to in Article 22(1), so it is about slapping, hitting or pulling hair, insulting, etc., a minimum penalty of 2,000 kuna is prescribed. As long as a violation of a driver who moves at a speed greater than 50 km/h of a allowed minimum is prevented by a fine of 10,000 kuna. Unlike other forms of violence, street or workplace violence, school or traffic, domestic violence is often hidden, invisible, and therefore much more dangerous. Their victims are either powerless and weak or too young or too old to stand up to a bully or some social expectations or their own fears and attitudes force them to remain silent. Family violence is a broad term that includes violence among partners, as well as violence against children, older ones and relatives. In recent years, the black chronicles of the daily papers on cases of domestic violence have been filled with attention to specific relations that preceded these criminal acts. The subject of domestic violence is constantly updated in the public. So the expression of domestic violence rose almost in daily speech. We are also used to it, although we should be deeply disturbed and deeply confused because domestic violence, therefore words that should not stand beside one another, family and violence because the family is an oasis of peace, security, protection or an oasis of violence and a cover of brutal experience over the weaker ones. What is certain is that domestic violence at the very least demystifies the family as the center of love, harmony, and joy because it is clear that some other content dominates many families. All in all, therefore, we are in the first reading, we have time for certain changes to be taken into account that this is certainly an extra-party issue, and I am sure that you, Mr. Minister, will recognize both our good intentions and accept the proposals for the promotion of this set of laws that is unusually important to us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177651	I thank my esteemed colleague, Jeckov. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. The debate will be shared by a respected colleague of Glasov and a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177652	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected ministers with a co-worker and once again a good evening, respected colleagues and colleagues of the SDP Representatives Club support new proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law and the Law on Protection against Family Violence, primarily because this law may not be ideal but certainly makes certain steps in the stronger criminal protection of victims of certain criminal acts, and primarily protects victims of the crime against domestic violence. Obstructed sanctions are tightened, additional criminal legal protection of close persons is strengthened and ensured through criminal prosecution by official duty and in the event of his conduct at the expense of a close person. Just as you yourself stated in your opening statement of sexual intercourse without consent or non-consensual sexual relations are replaced by what he is in his nature, which is, in that case, an independent sexual relationship without consent has been committed, let us call it so with or without coercion or in fact the victim was or was not very often able to say no which in that case meant no consent and it is good that this injustice has been corrected because many cases of raped women in which they were actually unable to grant consent and were raped and in which case this criminal act could not have been qualified as, as such and additional prosecutions were made more difficult, and therefore sanctions in this case. We also support the extension of the status of an official to employees in the system of social care and employees in the system of education and education. We know that we are facing a number of examples where people who only do their job are very often targets, victims of violence, it is exposed, their lives are exposed and it is good that this has spread, in fact that they also get the status of not only official, official persons but as you have said through these, this bill will actually further protect persons who, among other things, are forced to perform public, public or public duties, in public interest. It is necessary that I do not speak, meaning the importance of sending a social message, the state's message that we strive for a society that has zero tolerance to violence and that we are determined to deal with violent people. These penalties provided for by these laws or by the proposal of a law and are on the trail of this meanings we're tightening, we're stressing extraordinary penalties for the initiations, you're now making them think that I'm not counting them, you've elaborated them here nicely, not only criminal acts, but also what you've mentioned and, and violations, not only monetary ones, but also penalties, prison sentences. It is no secret, and it is in fact an indisputable fact that research by the Office of the Advocate General for Gender Equality has been carried out on a sample of 470, let's say, misdemeanor judgments, shows that judges tend to have a milder policy of punishment, and this is very clearly seen in criminal sanctions. The average fine was, say, 1727,79 kn which is very, very close to that minimum of 1,000 kn. Similarly, the average conditional sentence was, the sentence was 21 days with an average delay of 10 months, and the average sentence of prison was 19 days. This study, though on the misdemeanors we talk about when we talk about this package of domestic violence, shows very clearly how much the line of less resistance has been greedy or, for some other reason, our courts have very often reached out to the mildest, mildest punishments, that we are not talking about the longevities of the procedures that we are very often exposed to in public to an argument that is true, that very often the proceedings themselves have lasted much longer than the penalties that have been punished, punished criminals and perpetrators of such acts, such acts. Statistics are unfortunately still defeated, in the Republic of Croatia women are still in the large majority of victims of domestic violence, this is an indisputable fact, so let's say 2017. 10272 persons, 78% of men and 22% of women, have been reported in violation of domestic violence. Out of the total number of perpetrators of the crime of violence among nearby men is 91%, the woman is 9%. Of the total number of victims killed in criminal acts, 75% are women, 25% are men. What worries is that a total of 2434 relapsers were recorded, for example, a violation of domestic violence, although this is 13% lower than in 2017. We still can't be, not that we can't be, not yet, but we can't be satisfied with this devastating statistic. Among the perpetrators of crimes against sexual relations are the perpetrators of men, as regards the crime of domestic violence, 623 crimes have been committed against the damage of 535 women and 100 men, and by 96 men and perpetrators, perpetrators and 5 women perpetrators. What I would like to point out only at the very end is that we ask you on behalf of the club that, until the second reading and the final law proposal, you should consider two particular points, first of all, the problem of solving the problem of sanctioning partner violence against persons who are only in an intimate relationship, which means they are not in the marriage or extramarital community, in the same sex community, formal, informal partnership, but are simply in a close relationship or in an intimate relationship, and they do not fall into any of these categories, it is extremely important, not only for women, but also for adolescents, I will only indicate one information that we all need to be concerned about, which is that according to the survey conducted in 2013. which was carried out by the Professor. Aydukovic and his associates, 86.4% of 17-year-olds in an intimate relationship experienced violence once or twice, in 86.2% experienced some form of psychological violence, 37.2% of some form of physical violence and 26.6% of some form of sexual violence. Similar results have been recorded in Croatia before, so adolescents, especially adolescents, are exposed to violence in close proximity, and even if you want to have intimate relations even though they do not belong to any category protected as victims of violence, let us call it domestic violence because they are not in that category, these are devastating facts. If we consider that in our schools, our children are the ones we must especially protect and that we must not actually allow anyone to live in violence, let alone let children think that since the adolescent age that violence is something that is normal, something that happens, something that is not detected as some kind of criminal or criminal act in particular in this case of domestic violence, where some harsher and more serious punishments would then be prescribed, rather than that it is simply some way of life or treatment of their peer to them who is normal. Neither our unfortunately nor women are later when they are exposed to rape, more courageously, even 50% of women rape does not report and even 50% of women have never actually admitted to anyone being raped and slightly less than 20% of women have experienced rape or attempted rape in their lives, so support this proposal, but I ask you to consider some more things to make the law as high as possible until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177653	I thank my colleague, Voter. Continuing, esteemed colleague of the coat of arms, here's a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177654	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. My colleague, Glasovac, spoke before me about two laws that the SDP Representatives Club will support and these are amendments to the Penal Code and amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, but what we cannot support and what I will explain in the follow-up to my presentation is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. Of course, not supporting this law does not mean that this law is completely wrong. This law has good proposals, we have heard in the introduction one of them, for example, the erasure of the preparatory hearing which has proved unnecessary with changes to the CAP. The second example of a quality solution in this law is certain provisions that will allow the concentration of the procedure and then prevent abuses that arise in the event of a recurrence of the procedure when the evidence is asked to be carried out proudly even though there is no objective need for it. So this law has good solutions, but these good solutions are not enough to support them because of what I am now going to talk about. First of all, when we talk about the solutions in Art. 72 and 72 (a) and (b) respectively, when we talk about the right to defend the burden of budgetary resources already held by an arrestee in certain situations, we support it, we cannot support it because it is an obligation of the Republic of Croatia. However, the legislator or legislator has a completely different approach in the case of art. Article 72 72 (a) as in Art. 72 (a) 72 a) you say that it is enough for the defendant to say that he does not have the means to acknowledge his help while in art. In 72, you're saying that this defendant has to make it likely. My proposal would be and I think it's right, that this should be even and that the same practice should be in both cases. The next thing I can't support is the fact that you're terminating the opening speech. If you read the reasoning of the bill when you talk about opening speeches, you will see that you describe them as short, as opening speeches which are actually a few words by the charge, a few words by the defense, and that's it. But if that's the case, then the claim that the opening speeches make it difficult for the procedure to do so doesn't stand at all. And as someone who's represented in criminal proceedings, sometimes as the authority of a private prosecutor, sometimes as a defense attorney, I can say that introversies make quite sense. Especially when you are in the defence position because the opening speech sometimes gives you the opportunity to explain your position in a brief opening statement to the court and explain why you are going to proceed, I will not say so because the court is leading the proceedings, not one or the other, but to push in a certain direction, to explain why you are going to propose certain evidence, to explain why you are going to propose evidence in a certain sequence. And when we have that vision, when it's clear that we're terminating the preparation hearing, which is fine except there in 15 years and more when it can be if necessary, leave the opening speeches. In those 10 minutes for the prosecutor or the defence, it will not delay the criminal proceedings and in certain situations the defences are absolutely necessary because the criminal proceedings are still, unlike the litigation proceedings, still dominant oral proceedings, allowing the defence to respond in one place to what is in the indictment and to bring it before the court in a direct procedure. I don't think it costs anything and it's good for the procedure. Of course these two remarks I made wouldn't be enough to finally oppose the law, there's more. For example, when we talked about KZ, we all said hello for being deleted. 152. and everything reduced in art. 153rd rape, and that's good. However, Article 1 In 153 it shall be changed, in Art. In paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is a minor form of criminal offence, paragraph 2 is a more serious form of criminal offence. On the other hand, in Art. 19.c) of the CAP where jurisdiction is defined, you did not accept this, so you left the jurisdiction of senior instance to mean county courts, lawyers, etc., for Article 153(1) where the sentence of 5 years was prevented and in paragraph 2 where the sentence of up to 10 years has been prevented, you shall leave the jurisdiction of municipal courts and so on. I think we should pay attention to that, and that should be corrected by the final draft of the law. It's probably a failure, I'm sure it'll be corrected. But now we come to what is the systemic problem of this law, it is the High Criminal Court. I've talked more than once about the High Criminal Court, not to repeat myself, I'll just say a few basic information about him, respected colleagues and colleagues he's unnecessary. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, especially now that we have made it absolutely clear that the High Criminal Court only solves complaints against decisions of the county courts, means there is a second-degree court only for the county and not for the municipalities, we clearly delete this Article in the 6th of this law. So when we define it, when it is clear, then it is clear that the Supreme Court in its criminal department has no problem with the backlog of cases that should be transferred to the High Criminal Court. Dear colleagues and colleagues, from the backlogs of the Supreme Court, litigation cases, civil cases are more than 95% behind, criminal cases are only 5% behind. Criminal cases are resolved in almost 100%, one year it is 101%, one year it is 99%, the remaining cases at the end of the year at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia have about 7 hundred, 7 hundred in criminal matters. When we know that some complaints arrive today or tomorrow, so it's clear that they can't be resolved by the end of the year, it's quite clear. So the Supreme Court, in criminal matters, is absolutely curent and there is no need for a high criminal court on that side. I'm not going to go into the political reasons for his establishment right now, but I'm going to say that he is of legal and logical importance. But I understand that your position is different and that attitude you have expressed in this law, the Law of Courts. It is up to us to appeal to you once again to consider this but also to point out one problem that arises from Articles 6 and 7 somewhat resolved by transitional and final provisions but not entirely. In fact, both Articles 6 and 7 of the Law also mean in the article relating to the High Criminal Court and in the article relating to the Supreme Court, we will have these courts to decide in the third degree on appeals against decisions taken in the second degree when prescribed by law. And elsewhere, other than in the transitional and final provisions, it is not prescribed that the High Criminal Court decides to do so. Consider this provision, you do not have to in general, you do not have to do in the part that applies when it is allowed to third-degree decisions made in the first degree by municipal courts but when it comes to the penalties of a long-term prison, when it comes to confirming the punishment of a long-term prison or about a change that is extremely rare if there is ever a third degree should be the Supreme Court. And I think it's logical, and in that context, I suggest that it be very clearly prescribed. If the High Criminal Court remains at least 490, I think that is paragraph 1, point 1, so when it comes to the imposed sentence of a long term prison in the third degree, the Supreme Court would have to decide that we have complete control and that, however, one specific task in criminal cases is left to it. As I have already said, we cannot support the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, although we will support the previous two laws and in an individual debate, I will also point out a few shortcomings in them that I am convinced can be corrected until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177655	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of Croatian High Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives of counterparts Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's not present. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Stjepan Curaj. He's not present. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives, SNAGA and New Politics, esteemed colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177656	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. Today we are discussing a set of laws concerning violence. As we have heard violence is a serious problem and he, this problem has many dimensions. One dimension is the legal dimension, and today it is, this dimension of our debate and our commitment to give the Croatian public a few reflections, thoughts and our fundamental commitment to the problem of violence or our commitment to society become non-violent. In the debate, he is already several times convinced and briefly exposed to the intensity and content of these amendments, the amendment of this set of laws. It has tried many ways and defined violence and violence as well as sacrifice and our at least commitment to being on the victim's side. No one denied it. However, violence has another dimension. That dimension is anthropological, that dimension is historical, that dimension is thoughtful. It depends not on what we say about violence but on how we treat violence. We can treat violence by standing verbally against violence and supporting violence with our life and the crypts we have made in our lives. In the replica, I asked the Minister of Justice whether these laws came out and whether they were motivated by the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. I set this up for a reason precisely because this ratification of the Istanbul Convention has seen and exposed many of the crypts that exist in Croatian society. Crypt is nothing more than the content with which we are identified, it's the content that we can act in a way that parallels history. This means that in the society of institutions we can advocate violence, but thanks to identification with our crypt, we are actually promoting violence. One of the forms of violence when the ratification of the Istanbul Convention was debated was public intimidation, so-called public intimidation. Ideology. Those birth ideologies are gone, that's what to say. Birth ideology exists exclusively as a crypt, such as unconsciously, as one identifying content still with those unable to meet the truth, neither historical nor legal, nor the truth of violence. If our judiciary cannot meet the truth of violence and promote non-violence, it will continue to act dysfunctionally and will support many unconscious crypts, it will allow many citizens of the Republic to be publicly against violence, while in their crypts, their lives, their party lives, their policies, their family communities, religious communities at the conscious or unconscious, subconsciously promoting speech, content and legality of violence. Is it any different to explain the dysfunction of the courts? How else do you explain that victims of violence treat us with mistrust? This mistrust manifests itself in the fact that victims of violence have nothing to say to us. They have nothing to say to us because they're hiding what happened to them. What are they keeping secret about? Because we as a society are based on a crypt that promotes violence, but this violence tries to express some positive concepts such as patriotism, such as sovereignty, such as the threat of the border and such as commitment to traditional or religious values. If that's how it works in one society, then it's clear that we have a history that as a state, society doesn't belong, and that's the history of a law that will act the same as a dead letter, or those laws won't tell us anything. We can adopt these laws but if these laws do not change Croatian society and if these laws do not act in court practice in a way that encourages the victim and condemns the bully and that the bully defines or at least to be observed as I said so, the bully is an empty place. It's a place where it could have been humanity, but it's not because of some crypt where the bully is identified and the victim recognizes as one that is not worthy of his human relationship but is worth one violent relationship. And what represents value in his life coincides with a silent society. A society that is silent against violence is a society that promotes violence, a society in which litigation, judgments do not come because they went into obsolescence is a society that promotes legal violence and promotes an alternative or parallel history in which citizens will not be protected. It's a society that can stand up to the victim, but it's a society where the victim doesn't tell a thing, and that condition in the victim is actually a hypocritical condition because it's nothing but loud talk and establishing companionship with a bully. Every time someone stands up against the victim, every time a victim is pressured by the midpoint in the crypt created by society is unable to tell the trauma, is unable to tell the truth to which she was exposed, and that's true violence we as a society have capitulated. People who cannot meet the truth and who, even today after the ratification of the Istanbul Convention in the Istanbul Convention, do not see a document that stands up against violence but see a document that stands up against their religious and political forms, I call them capitulants before the logo. The street would call them fools. Fools or capitulators in front of logos are those who are unable to identify and advocate non-violence and non-violent policies and non-violent institutions. Institutions that are not able to sanction a bully and who are not able, what his colleague Grbin was talking about, lead not only to punishing a bully but to rehabilitating a bully, so that he can restore that human dimension so that there is no longer an empty place where the dynamics of a human being should be played but did not take place, it is a society that continues to speak through the speech of violence. Is it that in one who is convicted of violence we constantly observe a bully then it is again a reflection of our unconscious and subconscious crypts to promote violence, because we will not see him in anyone who is sanctioned for violence, we will not allow him to regain his fallen or missing humanity but will constantly view him as a bully as a convict. It's the same level when we judge someone in advance and we view them as the one who broke the laws, and by our will we condemn them and judge them. It's all a talk of a society that's been crucified, a society that's being crucified between untruth and violence, not in one state of natural continuity between truth and non-violence or peace. Unless we are able to develop these peaceful policies, then we are a society that performs only one transmission or society that constantly transmits various violent situations. A society that transmits violent situations that are committed to violence is recognised everywhere and in debates. Those who provoke, who present the lies that they want to act as rudest in one controlled environment, are nothing more than speakers of violence, and they have established a partnership with violence. It is precisely because of such association with violence that we do not act as a state but we act as a half state that brings documents, these documents, including the laws and our public policies, because we are in a European space moving us away from violence, but it does not completely lead us to become a non-violent society, whether society that adopts laws that will not be implemented under a body or the EU directive, which will continue to traumatise and Stigmatise the victim is not a society, a society that will, in one act of violence, observe a spectacle, an exit to the streets and a judgment of the street, is not a mature society, especially if the courts are judging by the judgment of what is said on the street, it is again a crypt of violence. We should constantly advocate to come out, to demystify, to decode, to fully expose these victims of violence that exists in Croatian society, to the crypt of violence is in the family, to the crypt of violence may be present in the parties, to be present in individual history, and in the infirmity of the victim, is there nothing to tell us if we understand only the speech of violence and violence, it is a sad truth that is at the level of anthropology and at the level of our inability to open ourselves ethically to another because we are now not opening ethically to another but is, I fear this set of laws has been passed because there has been a threat to a certain political or party status. Because of the street speech and the particular violence that occurred and that sensitized the public to go out into the streets and talk about the problem of violence if we respond to the laws that are motivated by street language, then these laws will not result in the consequences contained in it because the law's intensity is not to deal with violence and to protect the victim but is the intensity of these laws to preserve political power or to prevent political damage, not social damage. We can't expect positive consequences if the causes were negative, and the negative causes are certainly if we exploit violence, we instrumentate for political survival. We need to fight violence, fight violence, fight violence, fight violence, fight violence, fight violence, fight violence, expose and identify all those who carry a crypt of violence, all those who are in their own, the minister said, in the being of the law, I will say in an anthropological being, identified by violence, whether it is violence against the truth, whether it is physical violence, whether it is sexual violence, and bear in mind that our calling, for example, on the condemnation of sexual violence that occurred in the Homeland War, and which is still not sanctioned, it is not sanctioned because we do not deal with violence and we are unable to come to an end specifically when it comes to this word, with rape, is that we are able to sanction rape anywhere where then rape would be sanctioned and what happened in the Homeland war, it is a paradoxical situation of violence, which is not known by means of big talk or by means of violence, that it is called "crescularity" that the publicistism, which is called by means of violence, which is not by means of violence, that we are called by means of violence, that we are called by means of violence, or by means of violence. As long as we act at the level of partnership with violence, we will be half state, a state that is unable to act through law, and all those who act in a state half-state and who project their own ego are capitulants in front of a logo or what the street would say are fools, but dangerous fools because they have established friendship with violence. If we don't figure it out, we're a society that's doomed. The problem of the Republic of Croatia is not as often said in the demographic downturn, the problem of the Republic of Croatia is in a democratic downturn and in the fact that we are unable to protect the citizens. If we are not able to protect the citizens, if the victims are silent to us, if the victim's silence and the victim's silence is such that the victim is in such a situation for years, such a condition, not that he has nothing to say to us, but that he has nothing to say to himself, that he doesn't see himself as a victim, but that he views himself as a physical body with which someone has the right to master, as a physical body that is completely free, we have no demographic problem, we have an anthropological problem, we become a country, we become a state without citizens, and we become a state where people have become only a place or who have become storages of violence, violence against victims of rape, violence against family members, violence against national minorities, violence against women and all victims of the Homeland War, we cannot separate violence from one form of violence from another, or we are speakers of violence, so we defend all violence or we are advocates of violence. Those who carry the crypts within themselves, the crypts of violence are not able to understand this, and I am not sure how much these amendments of the law are directed towards the victim or are aimed at keeping the existence of a party and the crypt that the party carries and promotes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177657	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This law, or these laws that we have before us, and I will concentrate most on the Penal Code, is a fruit of public pressure. And that's a fact. And as much pressure as this public may not be so dangerous in this law because these changes are useful, because they are special, especially when it comes to the criminal act of rape, a particularly sensitive crime which not only in Croatia but also in other places is more severe, and in the spirit of what counterpart Vučetic was saying, if this becomes a practice that every more media-oriented crime corresponds to a tightening sentence in the Penal Code, then we will do nothing but damage. I have spoken here several times, and even when it comes to the Law on Road Safety, it may have been a total relief and perhaps an inappropriate example, but in fact the same rule of whatever punishment it is, it is not a decisive punishment but a certainty that this punishment will come. Today I had the opportunity to talk to colleagues from both the county and municipal and the state's attorneys of the Republic of Croatia, and we talked about penalties and colleagues who represent the charges that are trying to make the punishment as great as possible, say that scientific research has shown that sentences over 7 years in prison are actually losing purpose. That the person who has been prevented from being punished is the loss of freedom for 5 or 10 years basically when he is faced with it almost the same, and we have spent the whole 20th century, the end of the 19th and 20th centuries fighting for the rehabilitation of the perpetrators, for their return to society, in order to turn more and more retribution at the beginning of the 21st century. And why is that? The answer must be given by each of us. Whether it's better for me or for someone else because someone instead of 20 got 40 years in prison, they won't. And what we're going to get when someone gets out of prison after 25 or 30 years, we're going to get a fully dysfunctional member of a society that, under normal circumstances and normal living conditions, can't handle. These laws that are before us, I rule out, of course, the Code of Criminal Procedure I've already spoken of, but I concentrate on these two, especially when I'm talking about the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, are good. They're good, but let's not let this become a practice because then we'll get exactly what fellow Vucetic was talking about, and I'll try to simplify it and don't be angry with your colleague. But we respond to violence with violence, and it never ended well. We who have passed criminal law know the purpose of punishment. And when we learn criminal law retribution is directed as one of the purposes of punishment, but always, always in the second or third plan. Rehabilitation, a special prevention against the individual that he no longer commits crimes and general prevention against society of others in society to deter them from committing a crime are what should lead us. And here we come to another message and I'm very glad that you agree with me, Mr. Minister, which is that criminal law comes at the end of the story. And then as a society, we have to ask ourselves what we've done to prevent individual cases from coming within the reach of criminal law. Safe phones, safe houses, helping families who are destroyed by violence are all things to invest more energy, more effort, not necessarily from your portfolio, but you are here so you need to hear all of this that would prevent us from talking about this today because many cases and rapes and violence in the family, etc., would not be that otherwise worked and approached. Never, that's a fact, we'll never prevent anyone from committing crimes, we can't, so criminal legislation, so we have to have the repressive apparatus of the state, which is why we have to have prisons, but we have to try, and that must be our goal to make what we're discussing today an exception, not a rule. So this isn't the most important means of fighting violence in society, and I'm afraid again and again, it's not your fault, Mr. Minister, but the government you're a member of is. This is depicted as an ultimate measure of combating violence, rape, abuse, etc., and that is not, it is not. Other measures must have priority. Now let me also show you a few concrete remarks that I would ask you to correct until the second reading of the law. It's not the subject of this law, but for another reading it might be, it's not your fault. Stealing that she was once separated into several articles, so we have Article 228. KZ, theft, 229. KZ heavy theft. And then we listed in Article 245 who's an authorised prosecutor, so it happened to us that if there was a theft within the family for one segment is, being prosecuted by official duty, and a heavy theft if inside the family is always prosecuted by a private lawsuit. So for a serious crime we have a private lawsuit, for a minor crime we have this, by official duty, please look at it, I also think in the spirit of what we've been saying that sometimes and for stealing within the family, especially if it's about stealing a great value, which is supposed to be an official duty, if it's a heavy theft, it should be an official duty, not leaving a grandmother in the worst situation of her grandmother, which a grandchild stole, that if he wants to start a trial, he has to go to court. So I'm asking you to fix it. Next thing I know, it's an article. 3. means the change in Art. In 87, you counted persons, a professional worker who performs social care, education, and education activities. Health care, we put healthcare professionals in a special criminal offence, but their protection is less than what they would have been if, by example, social workers, education and education had been placed in art. The 87th century 3 as an official, so please consider finding health care professionals. I'm going to give you one example, an emergency doctor in the late hours of the night, in my opinion, far more exposed than the people mentioned here, regardless of the recent situations we've had and I think he deserves such protection. And for the very end, Art. 7 Art. 118th violence between close individuals, always a minimum sentence of 3 years. They cannot agree with those who require that judges be deprived of the right to make concrete decisions in a specific case. We did this in our time with the abuse of intoxicating drugs, so for one of the marijuana stems that the person had bred, we had a minimum sentence of 3 years, which could have gone to 2 and could not have been conditional. One marijuana stem, two years in prison. So now we have an art here. 7. where the Art. 7. 118, these are severe bodily injuries inside, among close individuals. A colleague from the state's attorney's office told me about the situation. Shogors live under the same roof, according to this law, close ones when they live in the same household. They had a fight during field work, this one hit him with a shovel, there was a fracture in the bone of the hand, it was qualified as a serious bodily injury. Never before has there been criminal proceedings against them, it's about excess, it's about a situation that will be corrected between them, which has not resulted, fortunately, by other excesses. Under the current law, it's almost an act of banishment. Under this law you've proposed, they're close individuals. If he's found guilty, by law, for three years the least punishment, and it can't be, it can't survive. I know that I'm putting you in a difficult situation with this observation, but we also have to think about the consequences of simply looking at the defendant who is in front of him and sometimes has a much, much better insight into how guilty this person is than we are as legislators who are sometimes guided by day-to-day policy reasons in law making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177659	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino. We have several replicas, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177660	Thank you, dear colleague. I agree with you in this section where you say that more drastic sanctioning does not necessarily lead to an end to violence. The truth is, if we just sanction violence and not put in place mechanisms that will act in a way to rehabilitate the one who has committed violence and to get away from violence, and this is not only an area of justice, but it is an area of society and many other institutions, from religious communities, social services to the degree of value and some social code that exists there. We're not going to get out of violence, we're going to make a new circle. Violence is harder to sanction, and then the perpetrators will commit more violence because they know more severe sanctions are coming. I'm afraid we're on that path. Other mechanisms of non-violence need to be developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177661	Thank you. Answer me, comrade coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177662	You're absolutely right, and worst of all, it's empirically visible from an example of countries that run a different criminal policy. The United States, on the one hand, and their huge criminal, pardoned prison population with an incredible rate of return, and on the other hand, Sweden, Denmark, and Croatia, largely, to a large extent, and Croatia, which has been building a policy of treatment for criminals based on rehabilitation that is nowhere near that degree of return. The perpetrators of crimes in Croatia don't just return, no, in one part that, in one part, yes, but in a good part commits one crime, serve a sentence and then does no more. We have to keep it, we have to work on it, and that's where rehab is crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177663	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177664	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Grbin, you say that the changes and additions of these four laws are a fruit of public pressure. You're pushing for smaller penalties, and you're recommending exactly how much I understand, education, security phones, safe houses that would actually prevent such crimes. But it should be remembered that at some times there may have been no such thing as today, and that is the influenza of social networks, and even crimes that are actually started because of such social networks in society and these are new phenomena to which the Government in this case, society, reacts by amending and supplementing these laws. In particular, through amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, certain things are modified in order not to delay the proceedings, i.e. to keep them as such shortened, to send a message to the public. A series of factors affecting this, but I think that, primarily, if we talk, we need to talk about family, strengthen family, and thus strengthen and reduce violence in society. and a series of crimes. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177665	Answer, dear colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177666	Dear colleague, I can't say I understood what you're saying. In life, criminal laws always cough for reality. You first had to have audiovisual means of recording sound and images so that you could have criminal acts that seemed unauthorized, unauthorized by painting, etc. But in this particular case, you and I both know that until it started to protest, until it started and it wasn't just the RH exception, the movement around the world was being run, we here because of the violence against women, because of the sexual abuse of the Republic of Croatia is just one piece, a wheel in that movement, if there wasn't this movement, this law probably wouldn't have been and these are facts, it's not necessarily in itself bad, but if we uncritically approach every initiative and every pressure, then we'll get into trouble. In particular, I said that I would support both of these laws and vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177667	I thank my colleague Grbino for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Maras is not present, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177668	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, since in the debate on behalf of the club, I presented the main point, and that the current individual debate actually serves as one experience so that the victim may feel in a society that promotes violence, not the rights of the victims, it somehow fits the current situation in this assembly, we are few, and those we are mostly not heard and understood. The lack of understanding of violence is supporting violence, I said, in this debate we should understand that we must not break and radicalize society so as to distance theory from practice, I will try to be more concrete. In theoretical terms, we have terms, concepts fit what we think, for example, when a person thinks a family doesn't think violence, does the family contain violence, a relationship between concepts and thoughts or objects, and how we're going to explain, how we're going to put it in words, that's not necessary. So if someone is experiencing domestic violence, it's not a family, and you should put that notion out. Those who experience domestic violence do not have a family, one whom parents have threatened, beaten, beaten, or children who have financially used their parents not to have children, or these children do not have parents. Let us not slave for social norms, but slave for what is logical, which is true and what is practical. The theory tells us that family is not the place where violence occurs, if violence occurs, it is not a family. At a practical level, let's get out of a community like that. Society that stands for family at this level, only at word level, not even a clue anymore, but will advocate that it can expose some statistics, the family has no statistics, the family has a necessary connection between the concept and between what is thought, in the thoughts of the family is not contained violence, in the thought of a healthy partner relationship is not contained rape, in the thought of a healthy society is not contained and there is no possibility that the street can make laws, I do not know which motives make laws, and if the laws are motivated by what is happening on the street, then these are not laws, but these are a continuation or one epistemological, epistemological extension of what is happening on the street, so they, one of the rougher encounters with the reality of Croatian politics is contained in that, for example, when it is said that in HS, in particular parliament, they do not need theorists, and tell me who it should be? If the practitioners exist in HS then they are sources of corruption, the theorists are those who have the opportunity to see the situation from more, with more levels, not preserved and contained in practice, the practice stems from these laws, from what we bring here. If we don't have any theorists in this HS, you know what our practice will be? Corruptive, corrupt and mindless. This will be the state as I just called it, the capitulants in front of the logo, this is the place where they should only be theorists in order for the practice outside of this place to suit us, that the practice would be when someone tells the family that there is no violence, if there is no family, when someone says there is no partner relationship that there is then no violence, rape and exploitation, when someone says care or public employees, officials, social teachers, teachers, that there is no attempt to intellectually or in any way humiliate them. I think our speech about violence is a speech of the environment that needs one rationality, a environment that needs to be logized, not only makes it logical, but gives it one mental content, the content of meaning. Violence, I've just identified a bully as the one who's just an empty place where humanity should be played, and that humanity is now gone. He's a bully and something else, it's a force or force that wants to master another being as freedom and as an object. The scariest thing that can happen to a man is that he becomes an object, a man becomes an object, it is, today I have referred to the Istanbul Convention two or three times, and today, when there has been a debate about the Istanbul Convention, many have called for conscience and allowed them to vote by conscience, so conscience is not the place where you find alienated yourself, it is not the place where you will find, such as this guardian of the state seal, where you will find a guardian of your own anxiety, fear and inability to face society, conscience is the place that guarantees us and gives us the opportunity to be radically individual to be radically different from anything that is happening around us, that is conscience. The conscience has no authority. If you follow authority, do not follow conscience. The conscience is what is happening inside us and what binds us inside. If we were to reflect what is happening in our conscience to society, then that would fit some kind of system of ethical norms, or moral values. A society that has no ethical norms, a society that has no moral values is a society that cannot meet itself. It's a society that counts itself. I'm in these hearty pathetic calls and breakdowns that we experience on an individual level after a microphone when we talk about a demographic recovery, that's exactly what I see. I see the envoys of those who are unable to meet with the social norm and ethical value. The problem of Croatian society is the least of the problems with demographic restoration because demographic recovery and demographic growth are counting. Guys, math doesn't apply to ethical norm, humanity isn't something that counts. Humanity is a value that keeps coming true. It may be one or two or three of us, but if it's a community where there's some kind of ethical value, if it's a community that distributes or emotions, when it comes to family and partner communities, or when justice is distributed, it's a community that's good for living because it lives. A community that is extinct and has no ethical value but has crypts in it is a stored community that has never even lived, but is a community that serves as an outdated scarecrow in the modern world. We act as an out - of - date scarecrow in the modern world because we open up 41st, 91st, or I don't know which. Let's open the subject in 2019, meet, make an anticipation of the world that will come to us in 100 years. It's not a world where we count ourselves, but it's supposed to be a world where we share, distribute and redistribute and righteousness and values and humanity and pleasure, which is what we find ourselves in time for because we lived. Not because we suffered for those who did not. It's the greatest hypocrisy I've seen in politics of all hypocrisy so far, and that's calling demographics and demographic growth instead of calling values in which we'll be able to meet with others, not metaphysical ignorance of others. That's what in theory is called in literature, metaphysical ignorance of another. When we, for example, observe a woman in the form of metaphysical ignorance and tell her what she should do. When we look at members of national minorities in the form of metaphysical ignorance because we do not know what women or national minorities are but we tell them from our ignorance, you should be in the house, you should be born, or when you are already in the Parliament, you have no right to vote because you have reduced rights. metaphysical ignorance of others exists also according to the credentials. We can discuss whether they should be at school. For example, I don't think they should, but if they are at school, they should have all the rights as well as the other teachers. Why? Because they can't have metaphysical ignorance about others. While they're in school, they're teachers, they have every right to strike. If necessary, and if they do not have the right to strike, then I cannot strike because they are not free because someone has denied them. Their problem, then, is not a teacher status problem, but their problem is an institution that takes away their human rights and freedoms, and in this case, unfortunately, it is an institution that should protect and advocate it, which is a church.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177669	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Minister of Honor, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177670	Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs. I've actually been thinking about whether or not I'm going out for a pay phone at all, but out of respect for everyone who's been discussing it, I want to thank you. As far as I can see, there's a lot of consensus about these three laws, except for the SDP Club, that's where we have really different views. I'll thank everyone for the debate. These useful suggestions will be presented until the second reading, given this kind of support from the clubs we've received today, I'll see you very soon in the second reading because it's actually an interest to all of us to get this into effect as soon as possible. I completely agree with everyone and I support the laws very often and are always a letter on paper, but we must actually find mechanisms, that they live, that they become life. That they're not just, just some standard that's prescribed, and actually life is something that's very often very, very different. And all of these mechanisms, I'd say, were here saying that the government was doing it under pressure, the government could call someone, is that pressure, is that media pressure, is that the impression of those acts that were concentrated at the right time, the government reacted precisely by this kind of measures through this law that we prescribe. But I'll do it again. This isn't the only one. We have brought in actually more bodies and the Ministry of Demography and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, we have brought in one protocol where we define exactly the role and ways of doing things when there is violence. It's important to live. It's important and that's what we say, that there's no violence or if there's one, that as much as possible, that we devote ourselves to the victim, that all of what we've prescribed to the laws and psychological and social and any other help to provide this, so that the victim can get away with it as easily as possible, and that he can get back to some normal life. Thank you again for the discussion. I'll see you very soon in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177671	I thank the Honorable Minister. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice and Mr Drazen Bošnjak and his assistant Mrs. Vedrani Nikolic. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. We continue to work tomorrow, at 9.30 in the morning with the agenda Final proposal of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. A session interrupted at 7:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-28-0.u177672	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 775. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes were 92 for, 2 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
