ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u148232	Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u148233	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, in the description of the council's affairs is monitoring the news, tracking the news of what's going on. This morning when I was listening to the news on the radio after I went to the portals and I really, really, how to express it, shocked or whatever it is to say, something deeply shaken me. I'll read you some of the news. In an accident in Dalmatia, one person died last night, four injured. A black Wednesday on the roads in an hour killed five other people seven others injured. At Požega's on foot died in the car, he went with the dog for a walk. Međimurje wrapped in black, in a grave accident killed a young couple and an older woman. A girl, a young man and a woman died in a collision in Međimurje, two other women in the hospital. A man died landed off the road at Skradin. The car's been cut in half. In a serious accident in Dugopolje, one person died, the car ended up on the roof. These are the headlines from our portals. So, the heavy car accidents we see in have a large number of deaths in just one day. There is no doubt only one brief online review came across the work of Mr. Josip Medved and Ante Orlovic, an expert in the field of road safety in which the work is called "the safety of road traffic collection of data analysis for the purpose of predicting and preventing traffic accidents". I will point out once again when the final amendments to the Road Safety Act were held, I was a critic of the law, not in terms of its intensity, and I welcome really wanted to deal with the four biggest road murderers as they were called alcohol, speed, belt and cell phone. But something deeper isn't good in the whole system, it's not good that these things happen, the statistics might later show that the number of accidents is smaller than they were last year, maybe they'll show, I don't know. This doesn't encourage, but every lost life makes us wonder what to do. In this analysis, these traffic safety experts say that the key thing in our society, we don't have good digital tools to analyze what's happening to us. So they warn that the police do their job, enter data, manually enter data. Later on, these data are manually transmitted to the Excel table, but allow Excel tables are not enough tools to make a detailed analysis of all black points, so to call them in traffic relative to space and time. We can look at individual cases in isolation and see when they happen, that they're in the middle of the night, so we're making some sort of partial conclusion that they're young drivers, that we as a people don't have a driving culture, we can conclude anything. But until we have a clear analysis that will provide some kind of information system in which to deal with such serious accidents, we won't know the correct answer to this question. I'm gonna do it again, and it seems important to me that prevention is always better than repression. Prevention also changes behavioral patterns. I'll take two examples now. I suggested one when it came to road safety. So let the Ministry of Education do everything possible to bring more transport culture into the education system. Because we now have a transport culture only within a technical culture in one, I think fifth grade within one semester, one part of a transport culture. Another thing, if already in the Republic of Croatia as a tourist country travels, let's do something to make sure that in all the places that are on the road, all the catering facilities to free them from, say, the value added tax for non-alcoholic beverages to everyone who stops, or, say, preparing food is something to reduce this value added tax now, that people decide to stop multiple times, yes. We are true on the highway we reduced the number of vehicles passing through populated areas which is good but again on the other side we shortened that time travel. Is that one of the causes of the accident? We don't know, we can actually ask questions, we don't know the answers. At the end of the year, we'll put this all in statistics. People are going to become unfortunately statistics and then we're going to bring some sort of, at the end of the year, I mean this year since the law applies, now it's going to be more than two months or how many. So we need to systematically approach this problem, invest resources, make an information system, make good analysis to see what we do, this kind of data in the future can only continue to shock us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u148234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u148235	The next position of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives, SNAGE and New Politics, respected colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u148236	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will speak again today about the issue of additional health insurance. And first, to underline, all the laws, all the amendments and additions to the laws are passed whatever you think dear citizens in this House can look at empty benches, but without hands in this House there is no lawmaking and no movement, no movement for the better. It is therefore worth investing in Parliament's work. For at least 10 years, I have been talking about the need to increase the price for additional health insurance, and after last year's promise by Minister Pavic in September last year, I spoke about this speaker about the problem 15 times. No one is just listening, doing their job as if nothing is happening, and from 2012 to today, 250,000 of the poorest citizens of the Republic have lost the right to additional health insurance on the burden of the state budget and have very low, low incomes. So that's 250,000 of the poorest and oldest citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So 15 times five minutes here, saying nothing. You have in the procedure and I gave in the procedure exactly on this day 6 months ago 15 May 2019, excuse me 13 May 2019 PZ bill number 643 in the procedure in which we mourn the census correction from 1.516 to 1.830 per member of the family, i.e. from 1.939 kuna to 2,340 exactly 50% of the salary growth rate in the Republic of Croatia in the last 15 years. You know what they said? They responded that it was not in the plan, the government's financial plan did not provide for funding, that is, the government's response from 10 October this year after 4, almost 5 months, that is the government's response but that they appreciate every initiative and that they will continue to protect users with these lowest, minimum incomes in terms of minimum social benefits. So it will protect at level 800 and 920,00 kn respectively, if you can believe it, that is the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but it appreciates every initiative. Minister Kujundzic, as we discussed here, called this measure of populism, to worry about the fate of 250,000 citizens and the availability of health insurance for them is populism and says that some who do not belong to social categories use this, and then my ministers don't know that this is the best system in the health system where you have income censorship and when someone gets help from their work because of poverty, it falls out of supplementary health insurance, you have a strictly controlled process in your ministry, and you don't know about it, and you don't know about it, Mr. Minister. Therefore, due to this decision on this bill, the Croatian Party of Retired on Friday (November 15th) is moving to collect signatures throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, a kind of petition, so no referendum initiative but a petition in which we advocate an increase in censorship, the harmonisation of censorships with the growth of wages at the beginning of each year, we advocate solidarity between generations in order to preserve the low price of a policy and the preservation of a public non-profit insurance company, and against the purchases, we often announce, the supplemental health insurance policy from 150 to 350,00 kn, and just remember, we have already managed to prevent the purchase of an additional health insurance policy from 70 to 89,00 kn, if all is privatised, we will be able to pay the additional health insurance policy from 150 to 350,00 kn. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u148237	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and New Politics in the name of the respected representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u148238	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today it is on the IUS-INFO portal, a well-known legal portal on which there is a lot of useful information, so called. professional article, scientific article of the two trade law professors, Prof. Petrovic and Prof. Jaksic, who open his article to the benefit of banks and against 125, not 125 000 but against 55,000 families whose members converted CHF loans into euro loans. Their behaviour is incomprehensible, their completely anti-legal position is incomprehensible so that consumers who have converted their CHF loans into euro loans would be completely compensated, that is their claim, so I will say a few thesis that they present in that article and which are essentially nothing but lies. So they say in one part of that article that the consumers who contracted the annex have actually negotiated new contracts. The annexes that have made the conversion of CHF loans into euro loans are not new contracts. These are additions to basic contracts, the basic contract remains valid in those parts in which it has not been amended, so annexes are not new contracts as they claim. Furthermore, they argue that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia found by its audit 2221/18 that consumers who converted their loans, CHF loans into euro loans, no longer have legal interest in determining their rights because they were compensated. That's simply not true because they're not compensated. The next claim is that they are equated with the euro debtors, debtors who had euro loans. That's kind of true, but it's irrelevant. Why irrelevant? Because at the moment of conversion, the currency clause CHF was useless, at the moment of conversion consumers did not know, if they knew, they would not convert the loans, however, this does not change the fact that the currency clause CHF at the moment of conversion is harmful. Since she's worthless, she can't make a conversion. These professors are completely disregarding Directive 93/13, completely neglecting the EU Court's ruling C-118/17, and it is clearly and unequivocally stated that if the legislator intervenes in some legal relationship, that the consumer still has the right to establish his rights in the national court and that he must be fully compensated. We're not compensated by conversion. In fact, at the moment of conversion, the remaining principal should be made in kunas at the starting rate because the currency clause CHF is zero. Since the remaining capital is expressed in kunas at the starting rate, it has already been converted in some way, and it is smaller than the one that is converted, which after the conversion amounts to a certain amount of euros, then the professors' claim that we too are equal to the euro debtors is completely irrelevant. Another thing they forget to say is that the euro loans also used unfair interest rates and those unfair interest rates were then converted through conversion into some kind of fair, that is impossible. Thus, law professors interpret the law contrary to the Law on Mandatory Relations, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to EU law. Does this have anything to do with the fact that these professors are members of some supervisory boards, I don't know, but I have to say, and I have to find out that he's a professor. Petrovic member of Atlantic Group d.d. Supervisory Board whose president is the president of HUB, Mr. Adrovic. I must say that Tomislav Jaksic, a law professor, is also a member of the Zagreb Stock Exchange Supervisory Board d.d. At the same time, he is a member of this Supervisory Board and Mr. Centner, who is a member of the Erste Bank administration. Does it matter that professors are at the same time members of supervisory committees in which the chairman and member of the Supervisory Board are high-ranking bankers? I wonder if that's relevant. I think it might have something to do with that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168130	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 29. The Law on Agricultural Land (National Journal), No. 20/18) is the proposer of the Legislative Committee on the basis of Article 210. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to ask the representative of the motioned President-in-Office of the Committee on Legislatives, Maria Jelkovac gives us an additional explanation of the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168131	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At its 109th session held on 2 October this year, the Legislative Committee discussed a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 29. The Law on Agricultural Land, submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Tomislav Žagar, our colleague. The Committee considered the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 11 July 2019, which is estimated to have no need to give a credible interpretation of Article 29. The Law on Agricultural Land, because it is clear that it is a matter of giving a preliminary opinion of the County and consent of the Ministry, delivers a programme that was adopted by the Municipal and City Council, i.e. for the City of Zagreb of the City of Zagreb. Furthermore, the Committee also considered the opinion of the home working body of the Committee on Agriculture of 4 July this year, which considers that the proposal to provide a credible interpretation of Article 20. The agricultural land law has not been established. After the debate was held, the Committee found by majority that the proposal for a credible interpretation was not established and proposed to the Croatian Parliament that it make a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 29. The Law on Agricultural Land, which is a contribution to this report, forms an integral part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168132	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac. We have a replica of dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168133	Thank you very much. About the availability of agricultural land and about the programme of determining what the local self-government of city councils and congregations bring to me, I think that when we talk about agricultural land, we need to know that 700 thousand square, hectares in the Republic of Croatia are unprocessed agricultural land. We must mention colleagues that in the coming year, foreign natural and legal persons who imposed this ministry must sell land because they did not accept our amendment, can buy foreign and natural persons in the Republic of Croatia agricultural land until Croatian citizens, natural and legal persons can, for example. in Hungary. We are dealing with things here and deliberately is clouding the public and reality here and basically agricultural land is the influence of foreign capital from Russian and on the whole of the Republic of Croatia will take over our resources and this is a agricultural land that is very important with our drinking water, forests, agricultural land and also on the target of foreign capital mainly of the Russians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168134	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Answer, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168135	Thank you very much. We don't talk about what you're talking about here, we're talking about the possibility of giving a credible interpretation or not according to the Rules of Procedure, so there's no reason for us to give a credible interpretation. Reliable interpretation is not given to extend the legal provisions but when it is not clear what the legislator wanted to say in this case is not so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168136	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168137	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. The HDZ Club will be against the proposal to provide a credible interpretation from the article. 29 The Law on Agricultural Land submitted to the Croatian Assembly by MP Tomislav Žagar. The Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a credible interpretation from Art. 29. The agricultural land law and, also after further clarification, the Ministry of Agriculture rejected the proposal. Nedoumice is related to the adoption of a programme for agricultural land, which brought the municipal or city council to the mayor's proposal, with the previous opinion of the county and the consent of the ministry, or for the city of Zagreb City Assembly of Zagreb, for its area with the consent of the ministry. The proposer on the water is not clear whether the council should adopt a programme before the delivery of the programme with accompanying documentation to the County or the consent of the Ministry, which would be part of the accompanying documentation, or if the Council will adopt a programme at its meeting and after receiving the prior consent of the County and the consent of the Ministry to have the agricultural land owned by the State available on the basis of a programme of agricultural land owned by the State. The programme brings the municipal council or city council to its territory on a proposal from the mayor or mayor, with the previous opinion and consent of the ministry or the city of Zagreb City Assembly of Zagreb for its area of consent. The proposal for a programme is made by units of local self-government or the city of Zagreb for their territory. The proposal for a programme shall be made public for a period of 15 days in the seat of the municipality or city or city of Zagreb which is submitted by the programme. Following public insight into the proposal for a programme, the mayor or mayor shall refer to the municipal or city council of objections from public awareness of the decision of the programme's proposal for adoption. After adoption, on the municipal or city council, the text of the programme is no longer a proposal for a programme but constitutes a programme which is in accordance with the provision of the Article. The 29th paragraphs 2 and 9 of the law delivers its opinion to the county and the ministry's consent. The units of local self-government or the city of Zagreb cannot dispose of agricultural land owned by the state prior to the submission of the programme on which the ministry has given its consent. Therefore, it is doubtless to give a preliminary opinion to the county and the ministry's consent leaves a programme that has been adopted. I note that the Ministry gave sufficient instructions to units of local self-government on the basis of which the JLS acted and there were no problems on the ground when making available to agricultural land. Finally, I point out that paragraphs 9 and 12. 29. talks on a programme for the availability of agricultural land owned by the State and not on a proposal for a programme, and it is clear that it must be adopted previously by the Council. So HDZ won't support this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168138	Thank you, we move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168139	Thank you very much. Here we see that this is a very important topic because in the chaos created in the Republic of Croatia is land management, the management of agricultural land is visible that it is targeted chaos, that it has shifted from local, regional, state-owned self-government in essence, we have in fact today as I said, 700 000 ha of unprocessed land and agriculture that should be the main development branch and survival of people in the regions of the Republic, today we have this chaos and I do not think that fellow Žagar is right in this work where it is required that public, transparently, the opinion of the Croatian Parliament body is created because such chaos in the agricultural land, in the Republic of Slovenia from Slavonia to Dalmatia is not known who assigns state land and in what way it is available because the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture is clearly the aim to welcome 1.1. and that finally foreign natural and legal persons buy agricultural land and certainly the village has been evicted, targeted as well as a matter of the city in which is not necessarily needed in terms of law, but in terms of agriculture, and in terms of justice, which in terms of land. The inspection findings that came out, they gave frightening results, that's what the media said, that in the Republic of Croatia, the correctness of food that should be most important, the demand of all of us consumers is essentially that the State Inspectorate last year, i.e. The controls that have been made essentially show that the deception of customers, false declarations, are essentially just looking at the noise of oil more there are sunflowers and basically we have areas that are empty, we have meaning of the dairy industry that is in decline, today we have karst areas, for the assignment of pastures in karst areas that are assigned to hectares of people who have no cattle, and in fact those who are dealing with the production of cattle and who are dealing with dairy production cannot in the karst areas either in my Ceti region or in all 8 regions of the karst area. People who do cattle can't get but get those who don't have cattle but get neat incentives. For example, we have one in Benkovac, I've been with one man these days,... Man holds 100 and some cows, he can't get a hectare of land in the karst area because if Slavonia is good for cereals, so the karst areas are mainly seen to have more and more burned and areas where cattle should be grown, today we have a problem with what the land is issued i.e. they don't even know what a cow looks like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why we have a problem today that last year in the Republic of Croatia 10.5% less dairy products were produced in the Republic of Croatia, 10, and less than that is 16.5 in the family farms. When we look at just how many incentives there are, here's the minister might say, how many incentives are divided, and we see that in everything there is a fall and that we have on our market means in stores with fake declarations we buy milk that has nothing to do with milk or, we buy oil, here, when I read everything there is, olive oil that simply false declarations, which are acidic, they have a residue and they're not well marked. We're buying bad food. And now we're surprised, that import, mostly imported, harmful food that we import, that are falsely declared, the declarations are false, we buy it while our agricultural land lies. For what? It's the chaos. For washing Pilate's hands. And I think, here is my colleague, Žagar, that he has well asked the question, that once publicly speaking, who is responsible for the allocation of land, agricultural land owned by the state and the chaos that you have made targeted in the ministry because the ministry is obviously not a problem of weeds, is not a problem in fields or weeds or everything we have, which we have to contain, is the biggest problem of weeds in the ministries, and mainly the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't know how much the paying agency has given so far, and who it's given it to, that it's now to see how many incentives have gone and who's gone, and we're reducing production and we're boasting with, so look, Slavonia is definitely empty. I'm sorry the secretary didn't come here, so here we are. I'm interested in the questions, how much has been given for cattle, for pastures, and do people who really have cattle get that? I guarantee you, here, I will soon go to Benkovac to the man who has 100 cows, no more than 100, so cattle, no hectare of land, but in his neighbors he must rent private land, and while people are given land pastures that have no contact with cattle, he knows neither cow nor bull nor ox, absolutely no contact. She doesn't even know how many cows she's got. Absolutely not, they still think the chicken wears two eggs a day and they're raising incentives, dear secretary. And that's what this is all about. So if it's an interpretation, the legal interpretation must be given to HS then let's give it. Let us define it, regardless of what is created in the local self-government and county which is otherwise the problem of Croatia, Pilateski always washes his hands, not only in terms of agriculture, but here, irrigation, the county is the role of irriminating, my Sinjsko polje is not alleged, 2019, Split-Dalmatia County and does not care, except for pre-election purposes mainly at the time when the campaigns then the ministers come. Here before Tolusic, I remember when there was a campaign for local self-government and regional, Tolusic visited every barn where there was a chicken and a cube. But it's not enough, it's not enough. We must not stop people who want to deal with livestock and agriculture, both agricultural land, and so in the karst area, and that is, we know, 8 counties, it's a huge area. So Croatia currently has only 16% processed agricultural land. 700 thousand acres is unprocessed land. And once again, my dear secretary would ask that the Ministry of Agriculture be renamed i.e. Here, I'm giving my colleagues to call the Ministry of Agriculture Destroying the Republic of Croatia, all indicators say we're importing over now, coming up to 3 billion euros in food, increasing imports, reducing production. We see that tourism, as we boast, is growing, although it is questionable, so you will see how much we import food, whose food we produce, you haven't solved the irrigation systems, the county doesn't care about it or care about it, the same way I said with waste management until today they can't get rid of them, of course they remember in Sinjsko polje to dump along the river Cetina, they can remember the waste, so it's promised, here's fellow Shipić to attend a meeting, a colleague... will address this problem last week of waste disposal where it has caused enormous damage to Vrgorac and the Cetina region, however, the question of irrigating the Sinj field, which is already the best time for the next year when it is pre-election year, there will be promises, and since so many promises have been made, and I have promised, for all these promises, I will lay down a cornerstone for them, one part I have managed to lay down, I can't do all, I can't find the foundation on the Stonestones as much as I have to keep those promises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, you've compromised agriculture, you've compromised the assignment of state land, you've created chaos, you've destroyed livestock production, you've destroyed the village, you've destroyed the peasants, our citizens are buying bad food, you've made a catastrophic food that's been falsely declared on shelves, which is what the inspection finds are, you know that well. So that's why we have an increase in safety and disease because that food isn't faked or healthy, we have honey that absolutely doesn't have any honey, it sells honey that doesn't have any honey ingredients. Not even a bee had anything to do with it. That was on our shelves. Out of 10 products, 8 are fake. For what? Because you purposely and deliberately destroyed domestic production, targeted. Because of this chaos and when legal interpretation is to be given, then we are against legal interpretation to make a somewhat reasonable decision. E, but the legislator prescribed the responsible local self-government. Who's responsible for the pastures? Here, I'm asking the secretary. Who is responsible for the karst areas? Secretary, will you be able to answer me? Who is responsible for the karst pastures, how much do you give money, money, yearly, dry money for pastures, for incentives by hectare? Well, here's the thing about my understone work. The Stonestone doesn't have people involved, they got it, they had nothing to do with beefing. Here, Šipic will confirm how many they got, my colleague, and they don't have a thing, they haven't seen a cow or what it looks like. And that's a fact, we have to tell them the truth about things, so they're questions for the DORH. Well, the battles are fought. Conflicts are being fought, shoes are being invented in a piece of ass or no hoots in those conflicts. Well, you've destroyed Croatia worse than during all the occupations, so the Dalmatian Zagora is currently Slavonia, all the occupiers who have passed long ago, from Turks, fascists, Nazis, communists, all who have passed, now have less to do with the behaviour in these areas because of the policies that are being implemented, and this part that is most important because mainly the cattle grounds when we talk about Dalmatian Zagora and the farm in Slavonia and this work, it's all empty, for what? It's the incentive. Those who receive incentives, have absolutely nothing, here is counterpart Djakic to confirm the same thing, you will all here confirm, all who come, neither have seen the cow, nor know what the calf looks like and receive incentives in millions, in billions. And when legal interpretation is given for this part of agricultural land, the allocations given by local self-governments, which local self-governments assign to the land that cannot be defined, is local government, and there is no such thing as that deep state. That's the money that both parties and campaigns finance, from these incentives, and that's how the system works. It's an amazing network. I can't imagine that people who have 100 cattle, don't have one square and live in that area, let's say Bankage, I was with a man, I'm going to go to him if I have time today because he called me, he can't get a pasture for use, he can't get a pasture for use, but they've got those who have absolutely nothing because he'll get incentives per hectare. That's it. A simple formula and a pair of mud and cows nowhere. No cows and how many moved them from the barn to the barn... From one area to another, we would be able to talk about it so that what our colleague, Sagar, has opened up, we should give him legal interpretation, we should not invalidate even opposition proposals because the opposition proposals if they are good, we should give them good, I believe that this decision on legal interpretation who, what, around state land, and once again at the end I will warn you, distinguished secretaries, all MPs and the public that since 1.1. As of next year, the agricultural land that has been abandoned has grown into weeds will be very welcome for the organic production of foreign and natural legal persons who can buy agricultural land while the Croatian citizens in the EU we call on cannot buy it in Hungary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why such inequality towards Croatian citizens and farmers? Now that you've evicted all of Slavonia, the Dalmatian Zagora, now the foreigners' power will come cheaply to buy that land and then our children will dig on their grandfather for foreign land owners. If that's the formula of the Ministry of Agriculture, remove it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168140	I thank you, we move on to the next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives and New Politics, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168141	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, just to say in the introduction, someone might now say that we are discussing last year's snow because most units of local self-government programs have been brought in, these programs, most of them have been given the consent of the ministry but on this topic should be addressed for several reasons. The first is that in this procedure at the time and my submission of requests for credible interpretation I noticed on the ground that in fact the units of local self-government, those who decide, the municipal chiefs, the presidents of the council were asked for because they were not aware of how they should act, what is the procedure of adoption, so making correspondence, everything that precedes the final act or act in which the municipal council brings a programme of agricultural land, there are various forms of verbs, grammatical forms of verbs, is there, and there are variations in the law, I am not a lawyer but I know something about logic, so I am also taking logical models here only to begin with a logical puzzle as an introduction, which is the whole point of this story. In fact, at one crossroads there are two brothers, one of them is always lying and the other one is always telling the truth, you don't know which one of them is always lying and who is telling the truth and one of them is leading to the swamp one time, another time leading to the city. You can ask such a question that with certainty you can know which way leads to the city if you don't go to the swamp, that question would say what your brother would say if he asked him which way leads to the swamp, in which case both would point to the city. It's one logical mechanism. Namely, it is also called in logic and a set in which the false truth always gives a lie, so it takes two truths or both the switch must be turned on to make the light light light light. Why am I saying that in this part? In Article 29(2), however, says: “The programme brings a municipal or city council to its territory on the proposal of the mayor or mayor, with the previous opinion of the county and the agreement of the ministry. ” So here is the ally and. Once again I will read "The programme brings a municipal or city council to its territory on the proposal of the mayor, with the previous opinion of the county and the consent of the ministry", it is clear that here it warns the previous opinion of the county, and the agreement of the ministry is not said before, that is true, but it is sought with this ally and. So it can be assumed that at that time it also needs the previous opinion of the county and the consent of the ministry to adopt the programme on the proposal of the Commissioner. Item 5 introduces a new concept, which is the very proposal of the programme, it is clear by supporting documentation that is exposed to public insight for 15 days in the seat of the municipality or city of Zagreb which brings the programme. And then it's still a key article 12. "The units of local self-government or the city of Zagreb cannot dispose of agricultural land owned by the state prior to the adoption of the programme on which the ministry has given its consent." And now the ministry is either like this, I couldn't ask a negative question what the government would say that I'm saying I shouldn't give a credible interpretation... positive, so this answer is that I don't need a credible interpretation of the same answer. Actually that's what I've got a credible interpretation of by answering that you don't need to interpret it crediblely. So, the programme was adopted when the municipal council at its session adopted the programme, following public insights with proposals and sent it to the ministry and the ministry agreed. Now that's where the second part of the problem comes in, so we got the interpretation, that's a chance to discuss that part now. What's the consequence of all this? And I asked the deputy minister then, the current minister she was on the Committee on Agriculture and she said very clearly and I asked her and I asked her to enter the minutes, so the ministry takes responsibility for everything else that happens with that programme, so with the call for tenders and everything that happens in that procedure except, of course, that the local self-government units have to conduct a competition under the law, but in case someone complains that the programme has not been adopted in accordance with the law. And another thing, this way to units of local self-government, indeed, is that now the former minister has claimed that they have been returned to agricultural land, but the ministry has taken the final decision. In other words, the ministry confirms that units of local self-government have brought in. It's a little unacceptable to me because municipalities and cities can't serve as administration to the ministry, so they're not for it. We have the European Charter of Local Self-Government. So, the ministry is like that funny video where he says and where the seal is. In fact, the ministry must now hit the final decision, given consent. And the program has already been passed on to the municipal council. I think this solution would be better if it required a credible interpretation that once the ministry agreed that the municipal council then brought its final programme. One of the reasons in practice that seems to me even though my colleague Bulj spoke a little awkwardly about it, and it is about buying land that will enable the purchase of land in the Republic of Croatia, it seems to me a little more dangerous and that is also in my community case, I don't know how many municipalities are cases. The municipalities placed something on agricultural land intended for sale, the ministry warned of removing it from the programme. You know why? That correspondence went on the phone, it didn't go in writing, of course, because the ministry is going to write in writing when it finally gives what I have to say a blessing because they haven't provided enough land to return. In the area of my municipality, watch the data now, the unofficial data from the then State Office in the county of 3000 and some hectares as many municipalities as 1600 are required to return, almost half the land. And we in Article 30 of the Law have that the municipality can sell up to 25% of agricultural land. And of course the ministry reacted and said, so you don't even have this return, it was put somewhere around 300 acres. That's a huge problem. I don't know how many Slavonian counties and how much land is scheduled to return, but it's a lot of land. So, finally, let me get this straight. I think that by refusing to give a credible interpretation, it was actually given a credible interpretation, eventually it was done, so the municipalities had no choice. They adopted the programme and sent the programme to the ministry for final consent. This led the ministry to assume responsibility in the event of competitions being opened when certain OPGs or agricultural holdings were given the country according to the competition, if the complaint was not handled, then it is responsible in that case. We hope that these cases will not be, but you never know because this kind of rejection of credible interpretation can happen because it's only the procedure, the legal procedure that happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168142	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168143	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I understand my colleague Sagar, but I really don't see why we didn't get a credible interpretation. But the fact is that we have some laws that are rather vague and ambiguous to us, multiple times in this case you need to be a farmer and a lawyer to interpret well. I'm here as head of the local self-government unit and I have my own legal service in the community, I have a good lawyer, and I've really asked around about this, he says, so it's clear to me, but you have to be a top lawyer and I really have a great lawyer in the community, do all the municipalities and all the cities have top lawyers, that's a question, but here's a reason why here we didn't get a credible interpretation so there wouldn't be some things unequivocal. The fact that we have a problem with all this together when we look at this Agricultural Land Act, who is ultimately responsible? If something's not going to be right, is the county responsible, the ministry, the municipalities, who's responsible and who's responsible multiple times with us is a very, very important thing. We used to have socialism and self-government, all responsible for everyone and nobody. I think it's actually very important that we know who's here who's making what decision and who's responsible. Here I have to say that after talking and interpreting my lawyer, this is much clearer to me but I'd like to write a little clearer but I'd like to write a little clearer law that is unequivocal and there's no possibility of a deviation from it. Here is one of the proposals, for example, my proposal for an amendment would be on this point 2. which should read the programme brings municipal or city councils for its area on the proposal of the mayor or mayor while the same entry into force as it comes into force means this supplement would mean that it would not be ambiguous, meaning as the same comes into force, according to the County and the consent of the Ministry, or the City of Zagreb of the City of Zagreb, for its territory, with the consent of the Ministry. So that's one small thing about these 3, 4 words. As long as the same goes into effect in the present opinion. It would be much clearer for anyone who might be in doubt about this. The units of local self-government, or the city of Zagreb, cannot dispose of agricultural land owned by the state prior to the adoption of the programme to which the ministry gives its consent, means the programme adopted by the municipal council and the agreement of the ministry is finished. So until it's won, the municipal council brings a programme, puts it in the process, but it hasn't been adopted until the ministry gives its consent. I say, it would be good if we had unequivocally unequivocal laws where we're simply not really in doubt whether we have to do it one way or another and if we know who's bringing it and who's answering when it's not good and it's not good, there's definitely gonna be big complaints, there's gonna be a farmer who's going to complain about it, I'm just looking at it, here's an inscription in some newspaper and I'm going to read it, and here's "The chaos in Croatian fields, worked hard, lived happily until the new law comes." I will refer or say whether this law is good or bad after a certain time. Maybe it's a little early to say he's good or he's bad. I wish it was good, if we could make a really bigger step available to Croatian pastures and Croatian countries, however, here I am somehow always skeptical about these laws that we are making new ones because they might sound nice on paper, in theory, through the window of some bureaucrat who participated in writing the law and then in practice it's something else, I would really like this law to be good. We also have examples of where wars have begun. We have an example of a garlic producer who found a bomb in his backyard, will a new war begin for the country in Croatia? It would not be good, and that is why I am sorry that here, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber I believe that it participated in writing this law but if we had tried really to do everything possible to comply with farmers, with lawyers, with the chamber and that this law was really a step forward and a good law. The long-standing impotence of the system is well known but also the lack of political will to make fair words the problem of renting a state country. I believe it's behind us, that in the future we will have a fair division of the country but that we will allow all farmers to live from that country and not war. Here is again the latest example that the head of a small municipality in Slavonia is charging for the approach of agricultural land. All these are ways as here, perhaps local self-government leaders try to bring order into agriculture and the availability of agricultural land, and some cases of disorder. I'm not saying that everyone is sinless and that everyone is well-intentioned but the fact that we have chaos at this point and how it's going to be with the law when it comes to 1.1, we'll see. I've said several times that unfortunately some laws, I'm not going to say that it's this one, they write and some bureaucrats who look nice out the window and never really face the problem, it's not agriculture, maybe even the least in agriculture, but in many, many other things. We're here to pass the right laws, the right laws, the unequivocal laws, but when a parliamentary representative is not sure about the interpretation of the law, then I think one whose job is not to understand the laws has even more doubts. And that's why I'm saying, I don't see why here's why we didn't get an unambiguous interpretation, as my colleague Sagar wrote, to implement this credible interpretation of the law, there's no need to provide additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And we could put here, clearly, unequivocally interpreting this law and I don't think there would be any doubt, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168144	I thank my colleague Preleco. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168145	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. On behalf of the HSS Club, I must say, it is a good thing that a credible interpretation of the implementation of the Agricultural Land Act has been requested. Why? So when we bring laws here to the Croatian Parliament, then we expect them to be just, that they are enforceable and there are no doubts in the field about the application of them. This request came to seek out several units of local self-government because they were in the dilemma of how to implement the Agricultural Land Act. And you remember when the law was passed that I was saying that it was illogical to pass the law, to come into force and pass the obligations to local self-government units within 6 months. they have made available programmes for state agricultural land, and at the same time in that law, it states that the ministry, has an obligation, has its own task, to adopt the rules within a year, and some 19 regulations concerning this law. Among other things, the regulation on how to look for a programme of state-owned agricultural land, which should be contained in it, etc. The mayors of the municipalities and the mayors simply resorted to the model to send any information in that regard according to the information they had available, according to the Ministry of Agriculture, knowing that they would be returned to do so because at that moment they did not have all the knowledge of what they had to do, what they could do and what needed to be entered into that programme of availability to the state agricultural land. And that I am right to say the information that the ministry sent me in response that 410 units of local self-government have so far applied for the consent of their available programmes and 205 have received consent. 205 means 50% still in processing. Why is it being processed? So precisely because of the uncertainty and application of the regulations, because the ministry remembered then, together with Croatian forests and Croatian waters, that everything that is run on a forest-economic basis cannot be in the programme of availability to state agricultural land even though it has been for 10 years, so is what is being led that it is public-water good and serves to protect against the harmful activities of water, it cannot be in the programmes and it has been in the programmes and that it should be thrown out of the programme. And the answer from the ministry is that they realize it's a problem and now here are the databases that will be online and where municipalities, e-citizens etc. will be able to do so. make an insight and modify your available programs. Here is enough talking about insecureness in the preparation and application of laws and units of local self-government are which are now required under the law to do so even though the regulation is unclear and in this section where it says that a programme for the availability of state agricultural land should be given the preliminary opinion of the county and the consent of the ministry. I said on the Legislative Committee that we should give a legal interpretation of the implementation of this regulation because I do not want the mayors and mayors who implement the regulation to come into the position that if a lawsuit occurs and believe it is of great interest to the state agricultural land and to be seen each point in the competition and in selecting the most favourable bidder, whoever does not win the contest, who is dissatisfied, will surely sue because he wishes to remain in possession especially if he is the former owner. He wants to stay in his possession, and if the court orders that no one can be taken out of his possession and brought into possession until the trial is over, he will practically remain in possession and simply stop the law and apply these positive rules. My proposal was if the law was already unclear and to install in the interpretation a clause, to suggest to the units of local self-government that once they get consent to the programme by the ministry, they once again give it to the council to confirm it. In this way, we would avoid this confusion because if the programme was adopted without the previous opinion and consent of the ministry, and most of them are the ones who sue, I believe that the court is watching what is written in the law and not what will stand in the interpretation of the ministry, by the instructions of the units of local self-government, explain the Ministry of Agriculture. It is not possible for the court to judge in favour of the one who is sad and who is dissatisfied, at least I think so, and the majority of the commissioners, and therefore they have asked for a credible interpretation and it is not good that the regulation in this way was the same that in the process of adopting consent, giving consent to the programmes, we introduce new rules and our proposal from the HSS, and it was my personal that everything that was in the programmes of the state agricultural land that was conducted in the records of the Croatian forests is at the forest-economic base of theirs and in nature is agricultural land, that it remains in the programmes, that they remain in accordance with this law of that unit of local self-government, also as regards Croatian waters, that everything that does not serve in terms of water protection and so far in the programmes is available, I do not see the reasons that the principles of this rule of Croatia will have to go beyond the rule. It is not good that our agricultural producers who have had such particles in their contracts and in the ARCOD registered for payment of direct payments, that we are now in a situation that they have to pull it out, is it our goal as a state to achieve greater production, to have more attracting funds from the EU through direct payments and production-related payments through other measures, or to reduce it, that our producers get less? So I think that you should be interested in getting more and not getting less and that it is unfair now towards and units of local self-government and also according to these OPGs who used such land that they now have to get it out of the programme of availability and it will no longer go into competition through units of local self-government but also through Croatian forests or Croatian waters and it is often such a competition as I hear from the field when it sets out Croatian waters for such a country, that it is not quite transparent, that it is getting land in use according to some strange criteria and that often the competitions are not public enough and that if you have a membership card, it is known to whom you can come to this country, and to be absurd even here Croatian water on one occasion in the municipality of Davor have broken the contract with the user of one such state agricultural land, although it has paid all of its obligations only because it was not politically susceptible to this country’s economy, which is clearly proposed against the principles of the Croatian economy, which is clearly proposed by the Croatian economy. Here is how this state land policy is implemented in the way it is now in the Ministry and Croatian waters, which is certainly not good and will certainly reduce the production potential of our family farms, nor can they plan their production because this has passed almost here 2.g. There are still no competitions, only 10th, 15 municipalities have opened a tender of these 205 that have received consent to the programmes, State Secretary you said about 20th that it has announced, but which are all municipalities, it would like you to publicly tell me what the municipalities have called for and for which areas for the availability of state agricultural land is because if everything goes as fast as I was a parliamentary representative waiting for the 4th month to get an answer, then it is certainly not good, because here I was in the 6th month asking for an answer to how much state agricultural land we have in the Republic, I received a response at the end of October, a total of 890 000 hectares of state agricultural land according to the data of the Ministry of Agriculture. And what is still the information that surprised me that the ministry does not have data until 2013 how much state agricultural land was sold, leased or in concessions, because they had until then local and regional self-government units, and from 2013 to 2018 it was sold through the Ministry or the Agency for Agricultural Land 346 hectares, renting 97 723 hectares and in concessions of 55,000 hectares, that's about 150-152 000 hectares, and what about the rest of up to 890 000 hectares, who has that data if the ministry doesn't have one? And you remember when I said the law was passed, it's good to have units of local self-government doing it again, but you have to hand over a clear state of how much state agricultural land is total, as much as it is in lease, in concession, how much it's sold, who pays, who doesn't pay, so the chiefs can enforce the law. Apparently, they were returned all of that without the right indicators because it says this answer that the ministry has no data until 2013. We started the Agricultural Land Agency for that, obviously she didn't get to do it all because, in the meantime, she was suspended for reform, for savings, so we see that she was almost 2 years old. It is necessary for the ministry to agree on 410 state-owned agricultural land programmes, meaning that the ministry is not as efficient or as efficient as when the agency was alone, it is not good, especially if there is no savings,... Even the increased cost of the ministry or people deployed within the ministry, someone needed to be head of the department, someone needed to get another post, they increased their wages which is good, and so we only have a bigger cost, and there is no real reform or savings, and we see in the implementation we are even slower. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is crucial is the question that all agricultural producers ask when they will finally tender for state agricultural land so that they can plan production, that their programmes that prepare for rural development programmes can run, that they can round up their property and increase production or preserve that production on the ground. There is no answer, there is still 205 programs to get consent and only then will there be tendering and this procedure will last you know for at least a year, a year and a half, and in the meantime for those who have expired contracts, what with them, what with those who do not have a contract, and it is required to provide any evidence of use, and many with two witnesses have entered state agricultural land and are receiving incentives on the basis of it, so I ask you if we have any real information on who it is and which two witnesses have entered into the state agricultural land and whether it is really being processed and who is going to do the land audit, I think that this, and the problems we have to solve and not leave all that hot potato to the mayors and mayors in municipalities and cities. And here, I'm going to take the chance since it's a state agricultural land to remind me of another problem, which is that we should have applied as a state for another 3 years. the moratorium for the sale of state agricultural land to foreigners. In the 6th month, we sent another 20 MPs from HS to come to the Ministry, the Minister of Cooperation, and to explain at what stage we are at because we have not yet submitted a request to the European Commission and the Council, we have information that this is what the right information is doing, that it is only when we have started to work when we have submitted the interpretation that it has been such a while, and I think we are all aware that we need to submit that request and get another 3 years. the least moratorium for the sale of the country to foreigners because our Croatian village, Croatian agriculture, and from this data we can clearly say is not ready for the European competition of all European agricultural producers who are interested and for the state agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, because in their countries they do not have enough and have such quality as we do, so I ask when we will get it in the HS debate, the Secretary of State may know, and if I do not get the answer, I will try to collect the signatures together and ask that this is a hasty matter to be put into debate in HS because I think that in this way we would even strengthen the position of the Ministry of Agriculture in the negotiations and the Republic of Croatia if we are in the assembly, I believe that it would be a unanimous decision that all of them, to ban the sale of state agricultural land to foreigners as yet 3.g. And to strengthen the position of the Ministry of Agriculture in the negotiations, I don't see why they're afraid of it, is that because it comes from the ranks of the opposition, if we're going to look at it that way then it's not, it's not the right approach. And here's why, because of our agricultural producers who are certainly watching this, the minister announced at the opening fair in Gudovac that in October she would start with an advance on the payment of the incentives 31st today whether or not she left? If it isn't, isn't it? When people are already in the final stage of sowing, you know, if they don't have the money that they can't even go with maximum investment through imputants to fertilisers, protection and quality seeds, they sow as much as they can from their own sources or be in debt. I don't think that's good if it was announced that it was meant to go before sowing and sowing that people could sow qualityly. And there are also a number of complaints here from the field that I get information that some over 180 OPGs get from the paying agency to return the extra payment and I think you need to see what it is and that the OPGs are rightly insecure, because according to the data they had in their records, they filed their claims and they think they have properly filed their demands and expect the Ministry of Agriculture to sit with them and to solve it, not to go with the lawsuits against the Ministry of Agriculture and the paying agency. Thank you very much, but I think we should have given a credible interpretation here for all the commissioners who asked for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168146	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of HSLS-HDS-HDSSB Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. One word is very important in all politics that is very often lacking in application, and obviously we also have problems in implementing this law, and that word is called responsibility. State agricultural land is the subject of a debate of all years in Croatia, and unfortunately as many other things have never been drawn one clear direction, one clear path, one clear strategy that it does not change which political option comes, so one wants to centralise, the other wants to decentralisation and then we are constantly spinning around and therefore there is no information anywhere accurate about what counterpart Vlaovic just recently was talking about. Local self-governments have been made available to manage wealth, they have received state agricultural land to design a programme, to determine the agricultural production that is of interest to them and to carry it out. And no one at the local level today can call the Ministry or anyone else if he doesn't implement that programme, if he hasn't done it, if he hasn't started to apply it, if he hasn't started the competition. We can't keep moving the ball, we'd like a little bit, we wouldn't want a little bit. Sometimes in the first part, when local self-government was first made available to agricultural land and the adoption of programmes, then whoever did not adopt the programme went through the resolution and disbanding of representative bodies. Today, we've come up with it in a way that if the municipality and the city don't create a program that will do it for them, the county. Now it's just a matter of whether they're doing it or not. I think it was said that 411 programs were made that 200 were approved and that 200 were still processed. Let's remember that time when the Agricultural Agency took over all the data from local self-government, and I will be responsible for saying that it took all the data because then local self-government was all the documentation, all the contracts, everything they had handed over to the agency, and there was a suffocation, a process that had already been in the good part that had begun. What I think wasn't very good after that, the process of control didn't continue, and I'm not even sure today whether the suspension of the Land Agency was good. Personally, I don't think so. The Agency should remain and remain and serve primarily for the control of each hectare sold under special conditions, at preferential prices or leased. And to anyone who didn't behave according to the program he handed over when he was getting that land for rent or when he was buying it, it was practically something he should have taken away. We've made a room here again where it maneuvers. I talk to people quite often these days, they're afraid, especially those who are tenants, there are people who have rented state agricultural land, their contracts point out, they don't deal with livestock, they even have a closed production cycle of those malts from wheat grains to bread and the number of employees are afraid to lose land. Whether the municipality in its work will create a program to reduce the surface, whether to show up some cattleman who will take their land, means there are problems. And I think there would have to be a little bit of an analysis, a cross-section after two years of condition and see exactly what happens on the ground, what is the situation, and perhaps a little bit of that law still lay down, protect, nevertheless, the former and existing tenants who use land for the purpose for which they have rented it and who have hired people, not just their families, but have hired additional families on that programme. I don't think that would be so bad and that it should be done. And in some ways even more rigorously access deadlines and force local and regional self-government to take responsibility and do the job. I'm sure the law needs to be developed, but the urgency that this wealth is given to local self-government, that it manages it, that planning land-based development is a good way to go and I don't think it should be changed just has to be a little bit more controlled. Today, if someone can't build a program in local self-government, if they can't implement it, do we need such a local self-government in such a case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168148	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrgo. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Young Respected counterparts Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168149	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This debate and on the Committee on Agriculture we also had what was expected when this law was passed, and this was clearly communicated and today's agriculture minister Tolusic was that the country's management would be transferred to the hands of local self-government. And that's the key setting for why you're looking for this kind of interpretation if someone gives you something to make a decision, then it's your decision that's final. And everyone expects when we make a decision behind it stands. However, we can see that this law has entered very deeply into the definition and procedures of certain and priorities, so that the authority transferred to local self-government is considerably reduced. In particular, when designing a land programme, they can make a list of land that is not some authority, they can determine what will go into lease, which even though there is a lot of previous availability to those previous tenants in some way nobody wants to, especially in these circumstances, take such responsibility to do something dramatic about it. After they were welcomed by something, which is that a significant part of the land was removed from its disposal, is no longer run as agricultural land but the acts of Croatian waters have become water good or what was once available as agricultural land is now part or most of the forest good, so it is not available with this programme. And then this leads to a real one of the complications in the way you manage the country, because you need to bring in and most of it has come up with a program that doesn't contain a significantly larger amount of land that was expected by this programme that we will cover a lot more countries, that in the meantime certain property doubts have been solved that were around certain land. And then when the land is built, there's a situation where a lot of land with acts is listed as water or forest good and can't be an integral part of the programme of availability. And to what you wanted to manage, you actually got a lot less to share on the demands that smaller agricultural producers have, the OPGs, and we also see that there was a bile debate on quantities that would be granted to those who had significantly larger areas of concessions. It should be pointed out that the concessions on long-term ones were largely larger, they are long-term and they stand nominally in the programme, but will not be available to competitions that will be called. And a little bit through that all-expensive role of a municipal chief or mayor was reduced to someone passing the problems on to me, and he didn't give me the real power to decide. First of all, when viewed in such circumstances, it is also laid down by law which are priorities. Did the law predict exactly what the priority is for every local self-government? No, he made one at the level of a priority, which I think is the proposal's priority, which in this case was former Minister Tolusic, he had such a priority. This priority is not the same in all local self - administrations, and when these programs are being developed, it is the way in which you meet the legal priorities, not some way, to try to solve the problem you have. And that when it comes at some point to the municipal council you should defend this proposal and the municipal chief especially in conditions where there is no majority of it, we also have such cases or the mayor must defend this proposal and say it is a proposal he is in accordance with the law. And believe me, whoever doesn't want to accept it, and very often the opposition isn't political, but the opposition are agricultural producers who are members of city councils or municipal councils, they don't want that attitude. And then you should tell them, yes, but it's the law. Then when someone starts to read the law, we come up with a situation like this that my colleague, Sagar, asked to be given a credible interpretation of whose word is final that we will have the process, how will you explain that on the municipal council, the proposal was, he was discussed, as such adopted. Any decision by the municipal council if it is illegal cannot be made in advance. So it's up to us to establish the legality and that's what the service does, but then we see that when such a adopted proposal comes to a professional body in the ministry, then it all comes back together. So we get to exactly what I'd say is a situation where local self-government that has certain powers actually regulates their powers again and enters the independence of decision-making. So we had a priority intervention, we had an intervention through a land fund that was reduced in various ways, not increased, and then there was a final decision making, and all of a sudden it would have been if it hadn't been for that pressure with very short deadlines, where the secretary of state could certainly testify, a lot of local self-government units didn't respect the whole procedure, they tried to shorten it, so it was just to send any proposal just to allow the deadline. If it had gone a little deeper in those proposals to check the procedure of whether everything was respected, I'm afraid we'd have a lot more rejected proposals than it was. Some had the view that they did not want to carry out the procedure illegally, so they did not respect the deadline, and yet this deadline is not respected for local self-government, but for the majority of the number of bodies that need to give consent to certain parts, or you need to get their preliminary opinion on certain parcels. So, we've come to a complex situation. Everyone sent it, just like that, as a homework that, more importantly, you do it than the quality, everyone sent it, and then they created a headache in the ministry, and what we see, the headache was passed on to the county where, when the ministry refused some or those who didn't at all create it when it came to administrative departments, the county that are limited to capacities, should be prepared, we've been chewing on that topic for two years now, and there's a very small number of those who have published it, and believe me, there's a lot of them waiting to see how they'll be with their neighbors, so they'll be wiser and not make the same mistake. Of course there are difficult situations here, we had a situation with Forten's group, a transfer that was regulated by another law where you need to clarify, okay, I'm transferring to them something that most agricultural producers in my community think has become available in this process or will be free for some period, which they want to dispose of. We had a case now in the Municipality of Markusica which brought a programme where they simply reduced those quotas and Pic Vinkovci, who worked out significant areas, could not use it, had no solution until then, valid, had no solution for agricultural land. And then you say you should help Pick Vinkovci. Here, I personally did not see that anyone from Pica Vinkovci referred any significant remark meaning in this direction and someone should perhaps represent their interests which they did not show. And I believe in that case that the Municipal Council has brought the programme into that priority that they consider to be the best for their residents. There was also a question of the municipality of Trpinj where, here the county was transferred a hot potato, simply which you will make a decision? Whether you give small farms or you give a company that employs a significant number of people in your area. Whatever you bring, you're not good. And then we see that the county that represented one point of view, now it's got just one hot potato, which is, it has to bring that program, it has to make a proposal and decide what it's going to be. We, in a way, went to delegate the municipality and the city to make a decision, and we see that we have made them a place where they can pass it on to the county, so you do the work and explain to someone why you've made a certain program. And very much this process that was going on was demanding, there were certain, I would say even insufficient counselling, more I believe that there were individual requests to the Ministry of Agriculture for interpretation. Only when it became quite complicated, then the Ministry of Agriculture improved its procedures, as it was seen, were more faced with previous counseling before the programme was adopted, and then it was a little bit of this second round, the corrections that were to be made, something improved. But we need to learn from the process that has happened and what is the problem, to make a proposal to amend and supplement the law, and then these requirements, which my colleague, Žagar, referred to, would probably be clearer and better defined and would not remain for someone to take certain risks or not. I often mention precisely that in public authorities officials are reluctant to accept responsibility for something and that it is one of the big problems within the public administration because everyone is afraid to take responsibility and that when they take responsibility for it, they will stand behind them. In this case, the municipalities or the city that she was bringing, and in some cases, we see, the county, should take responsibility for it and someone should stop. If the ministry sends it to corrections every time, they add, then it collapses. The process is collapsing and everyone's waiting, we're going to send it to the ministry, so however they decide, we have a chitabu that the ministry has asked for a certain change, so we're going to call on it. And we came a little bit to have this trust in land management at that local level will solve local problems have collapsed and I believe that very few now have those who believe that the municipality and the city have brought the programme that is best for the needs of their agricultural producers, but that it is all again handled from Zagreb. So, from the objective of this law, which was that from the agency that had its successes and failures that were interpreted in different ways, we clear it up once and give it to those who should decide about themselves, to make a decision, we somehow returned it to the public all together that again, not the agency, is now the ministry, but it has lost its determination in making decisions and political decisions by the head of local self-government or the representative body to adopt laws which they consider the best and what is already mentioned, the availability of agricultural land will not be unequivocal. One part will be available through the program. The part available through the body of Croatian Waters, there is not such a procedure, the significant amount of countries that have ended up in, as publicly defined, have a different model where you as an interested party need to seek a public call for a particular land and Croatian water to publish it on your site where very few people are familiar, even local self-government has no information that a public call has been made, and then someone uses who has knowledge and is good to speak precisely with this kind of place that there is a possibility that the land that is water good so that you can ask for the establishment of agricultural production by demand for Croatian waters and it is now being declared where you can, everyone can apply, not only that applicant of the application, but in the largest number of cases, only the applicant has information and it comes up and we are again creating an additional tension among agricultural producers, and now we see that there is available what is also within the building area, I would say even sometimes unsettingly needed to the relevant areas. Whether it will be in this same way, which would be good sometimes, because agricultural land is what is being processed for that purpose and it is a little bit certain that someone on it will have a priority to build. We have land from the Croatian forests and we should have simplified it, transferred everything together if something is not possible to dispose of, but everything that is possible to pass on to local self-government, that they are in one programme and that there is no such diversity, and especially that there is no difference in interpretation which can then lead to some legal problems after a final decision is made. So here we are, as a club, going to support the request of MPs and hopefully here, that even the ruling one will have understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168150	Thank you. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168151	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law that we passed last February and which came into force in March is very clearly prescribed for agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. At that time, we all here claimed that the previous law had a series of illogicalities, opening up the possibility of manipulation and guessing just the big ones. That is why we have passed a new law that puts our OPGs, our young farmers, our cattlemen, in place a criterion of domicileness that just gives priority to the local population with one clear goal of staying and working in its municipalities and cities. The law then decentralized the entire process of land availability and was given to our cities, our municipalities to dispose of land in their cities and municipalities because, in fact, they know the terrain best, they know their needs, the needs of their farmers, they have the greatest interest in having land in their municipalities properly and in the interests and municipalities, but also all farmers from their territory. When we talk about a request submitted here by my colleague, I am aware of, of course, his concerns, but I also think that the process of making available to agricultural land according to a programme brought by the municipal or city council, with the consent of the county and the ministry, is a good example of a transparent process. Only interpretation is found in the law, the programme, or the proposal for a programme, brings together the municipalities for which the first county and then the state. According to this, the Ministry of Agriculture has so far received 413 programmes from local and regional self-government units, and has issued 223 consent to the availability of agricultural land. I would now point out the example in my county, or Osijek-Baranja County, as pointed out here that there were indeed certain problems, perhaps even short deadlines, a lot of documentation was required, but all the work was done, so of 42 units of municipalities and cities in our county, 39 did so within their own time. For these others, she's done the county the way the law says. And frankly, here's what I don't see is a reason for giving some extra interpretation, given that everything is clearly stated in the article. 29, except for a possible opportunity to discuss this law further and in this way we give the opportunity to talk, not just about this law, but about some, broader topics that are certainly not the place to communicate with them now. So I would just be referring to a moratorium mentioned here by a number of colleagues who said that the application was only approached when a number of signatures were collected here, it's simply not true. The ministry has been working for over two years to apply. In September, a proposal was sent to the Commission and this request will be sent with the time when it is necessary, which means by 1.7.2020. So it is a deadline and is not initiated by I don't know, opposition or there is a group of MPs already really long, here and years, working on it and will be sent in due time and I am convinced that it will be accepted and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168152	Thank you. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. He's not present. Dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168153	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a little bit more so it's going to be two years since we've been here so hard discussing the State Agricultural Land Act. I'm sure by the time it's two years, nothing's gonna happen. So two years won't be available for state agricultural land. Maybe those two years don't mean anything to ministry officials, MPs, every month they come regularly, but if they put themselves in the position of peasants, and I am a peasant because I have my own production, that's two cycles of production. In two cycles of production, you can either advance or fail. And here it is that agricultural producers who are waiting for what will happen to the land they are processing have invested large funds in their machinery, in the facilities, in cattle, knowledge, work of their family, credited themselves and are now where. Nowhere. They don't know what's going to happen to that land they're processing, whether they're going to get it or not, whether they're going to invest in production or not. They're nowhere, on earth or in the sky, and apparently nobody cares about it in this country. Agricultural land is a basic resource for agricultural production. Only woman and country are born in this world, and we treat agricultural land as motherland because of someone's interests. This is where we used to say the law was bad. The members of the HSS also submitted amendments and said that the law was bad together with their opposition colleagues, and you did not adopt any amendments. So HDZ is headed by the ruling majority, has not adopted any amendments. Interestingly, some colleagues who have supported the law are now being placed in the role of protectors of economies, say it is not good for economies. Here, we could hear it from this pay phone just now. So where were they when the law was passed and when it was said that the law was not good, that it was not enforceable? We had a law where units of local self-government had agricultural land and at that time it was divided into the use of the largest number, the largest amount of agricultural land. The interpretations you're asking for from the ministry, so no one alive from the ministry wants to write a written interpretation. They're just verbally speaking what should be done, but no one wants to speak in writing. Well, there's a mayor and mayor here, so they know very well how to interpret, i.e. Doesn't come because often times nobody even wants to pick up a phone call at the ministry to pick up. Unfortunately, the devastation of agricultural land happens every day. I referred the parliamentary question to the Ministry as much as in 2018 and how much agricultural land has been translated into non-agricultural, forest and construction over the past 15 years. You know what they said to me? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2800 acres, that's almost 10% of what Agrokor did and what's the subject of the dispute with the fact that the Fortens had to be given, and in the past 15 years, they told me they didn't have that data, that they didn't have that data. So I'm asking you, what kind of ministry doesn't have or doesn't want to give an SS representative information on how much land has been turned into unagricultural. Or it doesn't have that kind of information. Someone said, and then such a ministry needs to be transformed. And that's one of the evidence that the ministry is working badly. Whether those responsible in this ministry can't make a good and simple law that's enforceable or maybe they don't want to. Perhaps the stronger interests of those who financed the HDZ campaign are, and they should now, under this law, get this agricultural land that is now taking so long to diverge with its sharing through, through competitions. It's a public secret spoken in the field, among our farmers. This is now the last train for the distribution of state agricultural land and it is clear that many powerful and interested groups want to seize as much agricultural land as possible, which is largely arranged and trained and qualified for agricultural production. Some will be covered by cattle, some will be covered by other things, perhaps waiting for some to prepare during these two years so that they can become the most favourable bidders. But if it's a clean job this law is, it's clear to everyone that it's not. Our agriculture has failed in all segments. We stagnate in all productions. Milking, porking, vegetables, fruit growing, we sink everywhere, my people, and we behave like this, that is. Ministry of Agriculture with major resources, agricultural land. So isn't it important for this country that family agriculture of the economy, Croatian families, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are involved in production, who want to create and produce, create a new value. Obviously, it doesn't matter because every day we produce, we get the feeling that we're superfluous and that we need to be rid of us. And this law is proof of that. So how do you think the people who invested millions of kunas are terrified, and tomorrow they can run out of land because of the 5 years they've had at their disposal, and now they're waiting one year at a time for the grace that's about to happen? What's gonna happen to people like that? Well, some have already given up, some have gone to Germany, Ireland, all over Europe. They are fed up with this kind of disorder in Croatian legislation where no one has any security, however, the uncertainty is growing and no one can protect you if you have experienced injustice. And there's going to be a lot of injustice here. And then this important thing for the Croatian state, remember, the Croatian state and agriculture should be more important than tourism because it is stable. Tourism is very fragile and can be collapsed as a map tower, and agriculture, if built, is a stable, primary branch of production in Croatia. And no one's taking care of it. I don't know why you just don't want to listen to the MPs, so whether they belong to the ruling majority here, whether they belong to the opposition, when they're talking about something which is the main Croatian interest, which is agricultural production. So all the strongest economies in Europe have strong agriculture. Unfortunately, I must say, our peasants have become cowards too. Look at what's going on in Holland. Just because the government, in some ways, insulted them and mistreated them, see what the villagers did in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, our peasants keep quiet, don't fight for their rights, and when all this is done, they'll get hit in the head. 'Cause unfortunately, in this country, it's law for a big fish to eat small fish. This is the main law of this country, and unfortunately, these farmers will soon understand that it is true. So, people, let's change that law, make it simple and share it with those people who really want to work, those people who live in that rural space. Take a ride to the villages, Slavonia, Banovina, wherever you go, the houses are closed, the houses are coming down on their own, people are gone. There are still some people who are trying to produce and work, but each day new obstacles are being put on them. In order for them to give up that production. So do you think some multinational companies that will take over Croatian agricultural land will feed us? So look what we have in stores where Croatian goods cannot come. Why can't he come? Because we have to be dependent on what we eat, so we can't be ourselves on our own or free if we eat other people's food, if we're fed by strangers in forests and waters, and most of the telecommunications industry, the energy they've mastered. So I ask you, what will remain of the Croatian state? And we rented the assembly. This flag and anthem will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168154	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168155	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Lenart, I was moved by this replica of yours in one piece. Namely, economists say, GDP growth affects the growth in the incomes of the richest. And when GDP falls, it feels the poorest. That's some legality for you. 7.5% or 8%, the impact of agriculture and food production on GDP growth in the Republic of Croatia is actually a key tool to, not only want this, but to keep this GDP growth healthy. In order for it to be on a healthy basis and for people, about 10% of them in this food industry and agriculture, to be able to achieve a much greater momentum and then to develop total agriculture, actually a total economy in the Republic of Croatia. These are the problems we have to face or on the other hand, tell people, clearly, a small number of people can live off agriculture and they will eventually take over this country and process it themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168156	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168157	Well, well-respected fellow. Austria is a country that could be a model for us as small as they can live, contribute to the development of the state through agricultural production. The Styrian Chamber of Agriculture has calculated that each job in agriculture opens two jobs in the economy. Doesn't that matter to this country? Obviously not. HAMAG-BICRO, I hear commercials spinning around, costing a lot of money, how much money was invested and that 16,000 jobs were opened. Do you know how much each job turns out to be? About 700 thousand kunas somewhere. Each workplace costs 700 thousand kuna. And here every farmer opens two jobs, which doesn't cost, minors nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168158	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168159	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lenart, in your debate, you pointed out that those who have so far signed agreements on the use of agricultural land will have problems with further activities or investments in agriculture. As far as municipalities and cities are concerned, I can honestly tell you that in the plan on the availability of agricultural land, regardless of the tender to be opened, there is no one afraid to report the same and that contracts previously signed will be accepted by municipalities and cities because it would be foolish for all those who have invested their assets to be actually the foundation of the new tender to be deleted from that record or from the future use of that land. I'm responsible for telling you that, here, specifically in our Straight Wheels, people who do this, no one's going to make such a crazy idea break these contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168160	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168161	Dear colleague. The truth is, it's crazy. But unfortunately, that's how it's gonna happen. People have been starving for two years. I've been through many colleagues already through many competitions, I don't do state agricultural land, but I've tried to help whenever it was possible for people who went through these competitions. There's always been irregularities, there's always someone playing someone, they're always smaller than the bigger ones. The same thing will happen now. I'm sorry it's gonna happen, but that's how we're all gonna lose. No opposition, we'll all lose in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168162	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Mladen Mader, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168163	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is clear that agricultural land is necessary for the development of each OPG. First of all, state agricultural land is of great importance. We know that any law that has been passed for both past governments and these governments is not, I can say that it is not the best, that it can always be about primarily agricultural land. Since I was the head of the municipality for 16 years and I was myself in the development of the 1st programme of agricultural land when it was in charge of the unit of local self-government, and then the change came to the management of the agencies and I think it was not good when the law was passed to the agencies and that now the new law was transferred to the units of local self-government, I think it is good but at the same time in my county, meaning of 22 municipalities and 3 cities, unfortunately, as far as I know, one city and one municipality have brought a programme of agricultural land. So the law that came into force I mean, in the second or third months of last year, every unit of local self-government had to pass the law by the 6th, to the 6th month. Problems and I appeal that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry, must force the commissioners to develop programmes for agricultural land. I think the colleague of the Hrg and said that in the previous law there was that, that unit of local self-government that didn't create the program that the unit of local self-government was disbanded, is that it should take action either if the state does or if it does County to lose that revenue that goes to the local self-government unit from selling or renting. But at the same time, I have to stress that we need to get on board and at the time of the opening of the tender, have the advantage of this law cattlemen, clearly that it is normal for us to have cattle farming on really low branches, but at the same time, whoever follows can specifically say again that in my county the land of cattleherders, while at the same time this corn products or combines for bio-mass, who follows it? For example. Whatever it is, Mrs. Ministry, the State's Attorney's Office, that he's not using the manufactured goods for food, but he's using it for biomass, and I think it's the same big problem, and in the contest they have the advantage and it's okay to have the advantage, we need to develop the livestock that's on our minimum branches. I think it must primarily be the state's attorney's office more involved in that part. I believe that the state's attorney's office is also not doing a certain job as well as expropriating property, who doesn't pay the land, means who doesn't pay the land, is on the move, the municipality is now running a request, the state's attorney's office is breaking up contracts, the state's attorney's office should own a certain tenant who doesn't pay the land, but unfortunately here's a specific case I have to say the same thing, the state's attorney's office didn't do and there's an interspace to use it, what Texas's to say before the land's benefit, it's not good, and I think more the local self-government unit and the state's attorney's office would have to cooperate more to avoid these violent incursion of land. There's one more thing you'd like to refer to the secretary of state, it's a rule passed by former Minister Tolusic, which is about revorising land price rentals. How much do I have to stress again that I know that, the district has been sent by the Ministry to all the commissioners, mayors and mayors around the regulations, about the revaluation, the cost of renting agricultural land. But unfortunately, the chiefs don't act on that part of the city, the municipality loses some income, and how much I have knowledge that it threatens to hire individual family farms, or those who are on the lease, to seek out lawyers' houses, lawsuits against local self-government units. So I appeal again to the ministry that they may re-send the districts to local self-government units that they have to comply with the rule that has been passed because it will happen again and again, the media wrote, complaints from local self-government units, the chiefs and the ministry, lawyers, I think it should be done if the simple thing is that the commissioners do not want to comply with the regulation that has been adopted on the revaluation of the country's price is clearly losing a certain portion of the income of those 60% that goes to the budget of the local self-government units, depending on the lease or concession. So here's why I'm appealing to the Ministry for a little more thought about not getting another lawsuit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168164	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168165	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mader, you've opened a very important topic, but now I don't think it's clear, I think that a double, double amount of this initial price is being mentioned, meaning the maximum price minus 10 or 5% now I don't know, as it's possible that some will be lost, it seems to me that many prices will increase, if there's a drop, up to, up to this drop in the lease, then it seems to me that they're a little bit more speculative because these people are getting on the basis of a bigger, bigger price, bigger price, now someone who's competing could complain that they're actually going to lower the price for these, for that amount I don't know about, but here, if you can just say it because there are really cases where the price is going to be significantly reduced, that, it's not quite clear to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168166	Thank you. My colleague Mader's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168167	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Žagar, that some, some OPGs will shrink, reduce the price, and some OPGs will increase the price at the same time, it's whether it's a concession or it's a little bit of a lease, but at the same time a little interpretation of the regulation, I have to tell myself vaguely, it's not clear to me that the units of local self-government when they come to the calculation, it's not going to be a huge reduction in the income of local self-government units, but I'm saying that some of them are paying me 1,600,00 kn per hectare, some paying 400,00 kn per hectare, it's a huge difference of 1,600.00 and 400,00, and I think this revaluation is going to make those who paid lower to increase, those who paid more to reduce, that it's going to be somewhere equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168168	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Young Respected Fellows Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168169	Thank you very much. Here, while we were discussing this, something exactly happened that we were talking about. The Ministry of Agriculture has announced that a public call for land is being called for, which is not on a forest-economic basis, i.e. what we're talking about right now. But when we look at it, it means the criteria by which they differ from the criteria that are according to the agricultural land law. They're not identical, and now we're actually going to have a situation where the land that was used for some part of it was also used for wartime production, because the Law on Forest Land actually defines it differently, it can't be used for that purpose, so we're going to have to turn some of this into pastures because it's allowed with other activities, but war activities aren't allowed, and then we come to the problem that someone is expecting this land, regardless of what they get exclusively for the pasture so they can process it and people get in violation. So they're in violation, and it's happening, or, for example, it's happening. Here, now in these conditions, so you have to have at least, if you don't have 3.3 hectares per conditional throat, therefore, you should now define that because everyone has a different criterion and the first criterion is that you have a local self-government residence. In this Law on Agricultural Land, different criteria have been set and it will be very demanding to explain in the field who is when it is called and should now be implemented, not only should it be called out, to implement a broader education and to meet people, local self-government, in whose area it is, that they have all full information that they can access it, but what should be explained, why some land that has so far been farmed as war land could no longer be used for that purpose, and it is not in the forest-economic background, which is de facto when someone looks, I have now received a public invitation to the Oranica, and now after that I can use it exclusively for parsing. Let us take into account that this will arise and also at one point when Croatian waters are called, we will have such a problem and that is something that, we see how much changes are happening just and there we are discussing the land of one request regarding an article when this topic is opened, it is very broadly going, and even when we are not going to politicise but just to warn about some real problem, we could talk here all day about the need to amend the Law on Agricultural Land and bring it into line with other laws that regulate general use. Because what I would point out one more time. All this may be from the level of administration that the ministry is, let's go to this process that's going on, there's a while. Agricultural producers they have this nervousness because that time passes them, they are not sure that they will achieve certain land, even what they had until then in the lease and possibly happen that actually happens, to fit with the intensity of investments. They're not going to invest in something that creates uncertainty. It is precisely the speed of decision-making, implementation of the programme and that there will be no legal misunderstandings is something that creates security and ensures the intensity of investments. Investment, even withdrawing from rural development measures when you know you have a particular country, a particular fund, you invest in it, you invest in the long term, this way we're all over them, and they're waiting to see how this works out. And in the meantime, the aspect that the EU Commission has also warned about is exploitation, meaning the total land fund used for agricultural purposes is extremely small and that the RS does not withdraw significant funds on this basis because we simply did not put it into office. It's often a question of who's responsible for it. We have land, I remember when then Minister Jakovina assigned certain cattlemen land, so that land needed significant investments. The cost of these investments, who should. In my opinion, the state should be for which a certain land, invested in it, is owned, detained for its purpose and then leased at an appropriate price. Because this is how we're going to have an uninteresting interest in significant amounts of land again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168170	Thank you. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168171	Thank you very much. As I said, colleagues and colleagues, as I said, the proposal for a decision on credible interpretation essentially raised a number of questions in this debate about the unresolved problem of the Agricultural Land Act because we simply have a huge problem, I repeat, 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land in Croatia is under the weeds and is not being processed. But next year, according to the EU contract, agricultural land will be able to buy foreign and natural legal persons, natural and legal persons, means foreigners, and we are in the EU, while in Hungary our Croatian natural and legal persons cannot buy agricultural land. So we see that these legal interpretations with state land, that they brought to this chaos, whether it's local self-government, whether it's regional self-government, whether it's a state with its land they mismanaged and one of the big problems is that the Croatian state was giving huge incentives, I set an example when I spoke in the beginning on behalf of the club, I said that the Croatian state was giving huge incentives for, say, dairy production. In 2018, compared to two years ago 10.5% of dairy products were produced less, which says that all the laws we have raised this issue created a lot of problems. We have problems, those who have received state land on the ground, we're talking about the ground that lends to people who deal with agricultural production, we have a problem of karst pastures where people get hectares and hectares, hundreds of hectares of land, and they don't deal with the example of cattle. I also warned that the triba ministry would pay attention, and the people who deal with the economy and who have cattle, for example, I speak, cattle development in the karst area of cattle funds, we're talking about 8 counties, the karst area is 8 counties, if Slavonia cereal then the tribal would be, karst areas would tribal be means rich in cattle. Unfortunately, this fall is big, rapacious, huge incentives have gone away, and production is getting worse and worse and therefore we have inspection findings that in 2018 it's as big as on our shelves in stores that we have false declarations on these dairy products, from oil, olive, noise, we simply have one chaos of imported bad food because we have demoted people who want to work, either in livestock, or in vegetables, or in anything. We are with these harmful incentives that have been suitable for certain groups that are probably also the source of paying campaigns to political parties essentially destroyed agriculture. Destroyed, only when we see how many food products we import, and 700,000 hectares of agricultural land are unprocessed. I only look at Slavonia or when I look at my Sinjsko polje, and Split is a pool of 300,000 people, weeds grow. We don't have a irrigation system, the county doesn't care at all about the irrigation system, and that would be key to them, the key to the development of agriculture. Well, unfortunately, that's me 100 times, that we don't have irrigation systems where rivers pass by, like, for example. Cetina or in other parts of the river. According to this, the Ministry of Agriculture has made in continuity chaos in agriculture, livestock farming has been destroyed, more and more and more agricultural production. More and more importing harmful food on foreign trade chains that we buy, which also has health consequences, is it not healthy domestic food and I would order from here to arrange at last, protect first that our country does not go to foreigners, any Russian capital or any other capital. And let's protect our farmers and buy our domestics, let's not guess, let's not give incentives to those for livestock, for example. Not seen cows let alone have. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168172	Final word on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168173	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here at the end of the debate that I listened very carefully and followed, I want to say the following. It is certain that today we went to a much wider debate on what is today a problem on the ground in agriculture, not just at the disposal of agricultural land. Of course, we are all aware of the situation we have on the ground and that probably a lot is not idyllic. But here's a good thing that we have here today and the secretary of state who heard your debate. What I want to say as chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, and related to this item of the agenda, therefore, there, my colleague Prelec has indeed confirmed that we have made a good decision as a committee because he said that his lawyer, whom he considers to be very professional and quality and I am glad that you have such a lawyer, said that he made it clear to him about Article 29. So what I'm saying is, the credible interpretation as an institute that we have in the Rules of Procedure doesn't serve to change and supplement laws through it. All of us here as MPs have the opportunity to propose certain amendments and additions to the law, but let's not misjudge the institute of credible interpretation when there are no assumptions. Thus, there was no assumption in this case that we were to give a credible interpretation because Article 29 of the application was very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168174	Thank you. We have replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168175	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelkovac, not a single law, so neither can this one in the eyelash determine all the situations. And that's why there's a possibility of credible interpretation, the only problem that's sometimes used and sometimes not used. And what's probably justified here today is that one part of his colleagues object, as a rule, is used in situations where HDZ is in favor and when he requires something, and when someone else does it then no. We had a lot of situations on both the Constitutional Committee and other situations where it was seen when something needed HDZ interpretation then everything turned around so that it would be done here, unfortunately, that situation did not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168176	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you nicely for peace in the assembly so that we can discuss it uninterrupted. The answer of my colleague Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168177	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, you are absolutely wrong, you are performing very politically, the Legislative Committee has acted in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure. There was no room for a credible interpretation here, and that's what we do whenever there's no basis for a credible interpretation. You're obviously the HDZ's biggest bogeyman with whom you scare children and everyone else. That's how you see it from all your shows, but in this case you've really gone too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168178	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168179	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Jelkovac, therefore it is quite all right, it is one thing if the Legislative Committee claims that there is no basis for giving credible interpretation. But don't, this was a little unfair in the end you say in the final speech that I was using this institute the wrong way. 'Cause watch out for the Community Association, it's not... The community association asked for these things to be clarified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was no false intensities here, wrong intentions, but to clarify these matters because it is a programme for the availability of agricultural land to be brought by the municipal or city council and which should be given the consent of the ministry. But at what time? How can correspondence run you? That's all it was. So I'm saying it wasn't that, believe me, it wasn't that intensity, I respect the decision of the Legislative Committee not to give a credible interpretation but it wasn't really that intensity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168180	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168181	Thank you. My dear colleague, in your case, I believe that you went in good faith to help our mayors and mayors on the ground first and foremost to apply the regulation as properly as possible. When I was talking about not abusing this institute, I was thinking about some of the situations we've had so far, and I was suggesting that we don't do it in the future. That we don't try to change the laws and supplement them through this institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168182	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168183	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this debate on credible interpretation...... I would ask you to stop those who come on Friday, because they can't hear their colleagues, at least to be dignified when they come here for five minutes to be dignified and to listen to us who are here in Parliament all the time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168184	Comrade Bull, you have a replica and proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168185	But I mean, look what this is, that chicken. I'd like to ask you colleagues and colleagues if you'll allow me to finish. Right there in the back row, look over there, here, come on Friday, look here. It's like that party, a party is a nice, cultural atmosphere, this has nothing to do with anything. [[Upadica Brkić: Kologa Bulj.]] This doesn't matter, Vice President, don't be mad, but if you can just ask [[Upadica Brkić: Continue your colleague Bulj.]] I'm not giving up, but I'd like to ask. [[Invader Brkić: Are you giving up the replica or will you...]] Mr. Stier, Mr. Milosevic, Mr. Shucker, Djakic... [[Intruder Brkić: Continue replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168186	A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168187	So I'm yelling, OK, thank you very much. Here I would just say to my colleague that a very important topic today is open to this credible interpretation of agricultural land, land allocation, a number of topics like you said, problems in agriculture because all credible interpretations, all credible interpretations will not help the current agricultural situation. We are today importing three billion euros of food products at the same time as our pastures are empty and 700 thousand hectares of land are not processed at the same time as for another 2 months when, I would ask you to shut up, please stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168188	My colleagues and colleagues, please do not disturb your colleague as he speaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168189	I would ask you to stop either the Parliament or those who come Fridays with a jokebachter to get out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168190	Continue, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168191	Keep it down there, Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168192	Comrade Bull, please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168193	This is really amazing. And while at the same time 700 thousand acres of land is unprocessed and we import 3 billion euros of food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168194	Thank you very much, fellow Bull. Now I'm interrupting the debate. We will continue the debate on this item of the agenda when we are done with the vote and now we will continue with the vote because you have not qualified to calm down we cannot continue to work. MEETING IN 12.03 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168195	We are now going back to the point of the proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 29. Law on agricultural land, NN No. 20/18. We have one more replica left. Comrade Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168196	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Jelkovac is a replica to you even though we forgot how long it's been since the debate. Of course I said that my lawyer was clear article 29, but he's a lawyer, I'd say, an expert. It is not clear to all, to all the mayors and mayors in particular to the heads of some smaller municipalities who do not have expert teams, lawyers who can interpret it, but here I will also give a solution, I will also submit an amendment related to Article 29(2) which should actually be read, and I think that you would agree: "The programme brings municipal or city councils to its area on the proposal of the mayor or mayor...", and it is important now to point out: "...until the same entry takes effect according to the County and the consent of the Ministry." I think that would be clear, unequivocal and that everyone would understand about this Article 29. I believe you will accept this so that this amendment will go in favour of no ambiguity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168197	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168198	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. So I think you understand me, too, so as far as the Legislative Committee is concerned, we can't give a credible interpretation to an article. 29th because no assumptions have been fulfilled for the granting of credible interpretation in this case, Art. 29 is clear to us, so I have already said in my debate, credible interpretation as an institute does not serve to amend and supplement the law, so unfortunately here you are, cannot accept this amendment of yours, but you as a representative and all MPs have the opportunity to propose amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168199	Thank you, too. This is also the conclusion of the debate on the proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation. 29. The Act on Agricultural Land (‘NATIONAL NEWS’ No. 20/18, and we'll vote on the same law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168200	And another same or similar opinion, a proposal for a decision on not to give a credible interpretation of Article. 29. Law on agricultural land, NN No. 20/18, the proposer is the Committee on Legislatives, and the debate is concluded, and I am voting on the proposal for that decision. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes, 80 for, 21 against, have been decided not to give a credible interpretation of the article. 29. Law on agricultural land, NN No. 20/18. That's what we came to the end of the vote, I'm calling now, just asking for a second more attention. So at 13:30 we would then have a session of the presidency, which is why aside from the vice presidents, there would be club presidents, and I ask you to have a session of children with representatives of the Croatian Parliament here on Wednesday to mark the 30th year of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child so that you can just take your things with you because there will be this session in the assembly. Now, before you leave the assembly, so we have more free speech, a few clubs and independent deputies, then we'll finish this session, the new one will start on November 27th on Wednesday, thank you all. Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2018 The applicant is the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: an annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 89 for, 3 abstentions and 7 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168202	We continue with the proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation. 6th century 4th century. Law on the rental and purchase of business space (NATIONAL NEWS) No. 125/17, 64/15 and 112/18). The Proposer shall be the Legislative Committee under Article. 210. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you go, colleague Maria Jelkovac, chairman of the Committee on Law, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168203	Thank you very much, Vice President. In short, the Legislative Committee discussed a proposal for a credible interpretation at its 110th session held on 9 October. 6th century 4th century. The law on the lease and sale of business space submitted to the president by the SDP's Club of Representatives by an act of 18 July this year. The Committee also considered the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 22 August of this year, which estimates that there is no need to give a credible interpretation of the article. Article 6(4) of the Law on the grounds that the provision is clear and precise, and there are no doubts about its application in practice. After the debate was held, the Legislative Committee found, most of the votes, that the proposal for a credible interpretation had not been established, and proposed that HS decide not to give a credible interpretation. 6th century 4th century. The law on the lease and purchase of a business space that is attached to our report and makes it an integral part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168204	Thank you, too. We've got one replica, my colleague, the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I am extremely sorry that today we do not have representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to discuss with them the reasons for seeking this credible interpretation. It is not clear from the very text of the law whether the business space which was the subject of a public tender can be leased once or more, and when it is then extended to the lease of that business space, it is not clear from the proposal for a credible interpretation, I wanted to ask the representatives of the Government, I will not have the opportunity, but I will therefore ask the applicant. So, a very simple answer because people who apply this in practice are not clear, can one business space be leased multiple times, yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168206	Thank you. Before responding to the replica, colleague Bulj is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168207	My fellow coat of arms, you've hurt an officer. 238 is why you mention the government, yet today is Friday and the weekend, the concern of its business premises, the problems of our citizens, and the minimum courtesy was to have the government, but don't mention them, Friday, Thursday is, tomorrow is the same holiday, so it would be a shame if they were here to hear what you're up to with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168208	Comrade Bulj, the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, in accordance with Article. 232. I give you a warning, thank you. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168209	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Government held a meeting of the Committee, they also explained the government's opinions in Article 4. 6. it is very clear that the following, exceptionally from the provision of Article 1 of this Article, units of local and regional self-government as a borrower may make written tenders for the conclusion of a new lease agreement at a specified time of 5.g. under the same conditions as in the existing lease agreement where this is economically justified, or where the monthly amount of the lease is higher than the cost of the lease at the decision of the unit of local regional self-government, etc., we believe that Article 4. Clear 6th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168210	Thank you. I am opening the debate, the first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Col. Tomislav Klaric, please welcome colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. My colleagues and fellow MPs, so 21.11.2018 largely voted this law, although it was after the procedure, the first, second reading and the really wide public debate, the ministry, the government accepted most of the remarks, built this law, and most clubs praised essentially this model and the way this law was passed and everything that was found in it. Almost a year after this law was applied, there were virtually no problems related to the Article. 6. which is mentioned here, so I also, indeed, as the head of the unit of local self-government who had a whole series of examples of the issue of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local and regional self-government, legal persons and their ownership, in particular, of the public tender. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4. which is mentioned and for which a credible interpretation is required, is literally and decided, so that I really do not see the reason why credible interpretation of art should be given. 6th and 4th, therefore, we support the motion for a decision or decision not to give a credible interpretation. 6th century 4th century. The law on the lease and purchase of a business space and just as they have given it in their reasoning and given it, our opinion is so that it is truly unequivocal, all the conditions under which a lease agreement, a business space owned by units of local self-government, are laid down regionally without a public tender can be concluded with an existing tenant. I'm saying this among other things and in practice, it's mostly about renting business space and craftsmen and economic operators that have been operating in that space for a long time. And if there were any problems that were related to the arrangements of renting the space itself, then it was a local self-government unit that was able to solve it according to the rules so far and especially under this new law. Here, I thank you, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the committee's motion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168212	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Peja Grbin. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately not the government's representatives because they're not here. Speaking of experiences that someone has in practice allow me to return to one of the experiences that I have had in practice because for 4 years I have been head of a commission to rent a business space owned by the city of Pula so that I know something about how business spaces are given, how the competition is conducted and what problems existed. This law for which the note bene, a respected colleague, Klaric's Club of Representatives of the SPD, not only was he not but he also submitted a whole series of amendments to which he was trying to fix it, unfortunately it failedly created additional ones in practice. The initiative to seek a credible interpretation of the Law on the Hire of Business Space was directed by our colleagues and colleagues from the city of Rijeka. The city of the third-largest in the Republic of Croatia, which owns a whole series of business spaces that form a significant part of the income and budget of the city of Rijeka. Both our colleagues and colleagues from Rijeka and many other cities and municipalities with whom I had opportunities to talk have serious problems in practice. The text of the law makes one thing unclear, whether an existing contract on the lease of a business space owned by units of local self-government can be extended once or more. That's what we were looking for in this proposal to give a credible interpretation of the law. A very clear answer that, can be extended multiple times or not, cannot be extended more times than just once. Well, you see, the government of the Republic of Croatia is in no condition to give a simple answer to a fundamentally simple question. I'll do it again. The question we asked and why we asked for this credible interpretation reads: Can the lease agreement between the local self-government unit and the third party be extended once or twice? That answer can only be yes, it can, no, it can't. But HDZ and a respected government that unfortunately doesn't have that answer here today won't, won't or because of their own incompetence I can't give. What answer did we get? The answer is therefore: ‘Unequivocally, the conditions under which a contract on the lease of a business space owned by a unit of local and regional self-government may be concluded with an existing tenant without a public tender.’ With all due respect, and that's why I mentioned that for four years I've been head of a commission to rent space owned by the city of Pula, as a person who's been doing this job for four years, who's been a graduate lawyer, who's got over 16 years of experience as a lawyer, which as someone who's been renting business premises, I can't interpret this. After this argument, not only is it not clear to me, but the situation is more complicated than it was before. So this explanation by the Government, proposed by the Committee on Legislatives, actually required further clarification. And that is why I asked the representative of the proposer's distinguished colleague Jelkovac immediately in the replica to answer me if the existing business space can be extended once or twice, once or more, on the basis of the existing contract, that is the question. But neither the esteemed colleague Jelkovac nor the esteemed Mr. Klaric who spoke after her gave the answer to that question. The SDP advocates' club, of course, cannot support such a decision because the decision does not give any answer to that question and we will continue to insist in other ways on parliamentary issues, etc., in the Government because after the meeting of the Committee on Legislatives, I asked the representatives present at the time whether they have problems with this. And do you know what their answer was? That this is one of the most common questions they are asked most often. So no, this is not clear, this should have been clarified, this should have been resolved. And even in the way you suggested we make a decision that we wouldn't give a credible interpretation, but then to make it clear in an explanation, that we can do it more than once or can't. But like I said, whether it's because of ignorance, incompetence or something else, we didn't get the answer. And as I said, we won't support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168214	Thank you, fellow coat of arms. This also concludes the debate on the proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 6(4). Law on the rental and purchase of commercial premises NN No. 125/11 64/15 and 112/18 and we will vote when the conditions are met. My colleague Jelkovac, my colleague Lipoščak, my colleague Sabolek, my colleague Bulj, my colleague Grbin, I wish you a pleasant extended weekend. The work continues on Wednesday with the proposal for amendments and additions to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the Budget projection for 2020 and 2021. Goodbye. The session was interrupted at 13.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-31-0.u168215	Proposal for a decision on the non-reliable interpretation of Art. 6th century 4th century. Law on the rental and purchase of business space, NN No. 125/11, 64/15 and 112/18., the legislator is the Committee on Legislatives, the debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for that decision. Please, let's vote. I find that with 82 for and 15 against the decision on the non-reliable interpretation of the article has been made. 6th century 4th century. Law on the rental and purchase of business space, NN No. 125/11, 64/15 and 112/18.
