ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u148222	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. That the fight in the Croatian Parliament and on the political scene makes sense although the party Change Croatia and I as a representative are not members of the government shows one research and practice about what we have done, our Committee on Finance and Economy, and it is about the fact that there has been a real rebirth of the kuna and above all in the borrowing of citizens. I must admit that it was quite surprising for me because few people have expected that the last five years of kuna as a national currency would experience such a strong renaissance as to its use. What's this about? Kuna participated in the total bank loans in 2014 only with 26%, beware, secondary currency in the monetary system, and in mid- 2019 its share increased to 42% means in five years. At the same time, the share of foreign exchange loans in total loans, including those with the currency clause, fell from 74% to 58%. So here there has been a drastic change in citizens' behaviour above all in borrowing in a particular currency. What does it look like in absolute terms? In absolute terms, the total kuna loans of banks amounted to €74 billion in 2014, and in April 2019 as much as € 107 billion, which is 44% growth. But in the same period, foreign exchange loans fell from 206 to 145 billion kuna, meaning drastic decline. In particular, it should be pointed out that citizens are most afraid of loans from kuna to the currency clause and we have seen these scenes, especially in the case of Franak and that amount of credit with the currency clause has fallen from 156 billion to 121 billion kuna. In particular, this is visible in the housing segment, so let's say 2014 kuna housing loans amounted to 35 billion kuna, and in April 2019 you see as many as 67 billion kunas, they almost doubled. At the same time, foreign exchange loans fell from 91 billion to 60 billion kuna. You see, this is the kind of analysis you couldn't hear or see in the media, or from the CNB. Is that why? Because it is clear now that the increase in the use of kuna in circulation, borrowing, bothers those who want to introduce the EURo as soon as possible and therefore the propaganda has increased over the past weeks and months. However, the only sector that pushes further borrowing of the vain clause is imagine who, the state. Its loans, such loans from 12.6 billion in 2014 increased to 22.4 billion kuna. So the state, the Ministry of Finance and this government are primarily undermining, disrupting, the country's monetary sovereignty and trust in the kuna. The party we change Croatia will not give up on an idea that we constantly communicate that by coming to power, we will immediately abolish the currency clause, and I am telling you citizens, what I keep saying, be wise, be in debt exclusively in kunas, why, because in kunas you receive wages and it is a healthy peasant logic that is correct, meaning that no one can kill. What should be said, so this phenomenon was not expected, why, since the kuna of all past years has been suppressed from use, the concept of total eroticism was implemented to introduce the EURo as soon as possible, however, the plan has completely failed, when, by the onset of the financial crisis in 2008. Because then it was seen that the countries that introduced the EURo, and have weak economies like Greece, are the ones that suffer the most. Therefore, our people are smart, all polls say that they do not want citizens to introduce the EUR quickly, we are not ready at all, we have to prepare ourselves realistically and in this sense, so we are pushing for monetary reform whose main objective is a drastic increase, a comprehensive increase in the use of the kuna. So this is one happy news and we will continue on it. And finally, Mr. President-in-Office, before, on average, seven months ago, I've been waiting for answers to 4-5 parliamentary questions, you signed them. There's no answer in particular, so you're responsible, you're boycotting our communication. [[Intruder: Thank you]] The truth we can tell the citizens. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u148223	We move to the next position, on behalf of independent, respected counterpart Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u148224	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens who follow us, you see, this morning I was both angry and sad when I read that the oil that ran from our stations to Sisak, the refinery, no longer flows there from today, but through the JANAF pipeline towards Hungary to process there. As you can see, respected citizens, the government's policy to destroy and what little industry in the Republic continues, and therefore, I said the other day that Andrej Plenkovic is the most dangerous prime minister who has ever led the Republic, and we will feel it and see it only in the years to come. But today I want to talk about something else, about something else, you see in this institution every year all public institutions submit a report on the work only one institution has not submitted its 2016 report, imagine. Now you're wondering if it's the Constitutional Court, is it the Supreme Court, is it the HBOR, is it the CNB, is it what you know only one institution didn't file a report for 2016. And you know when someone doesn't file a report for 2016, and you know how the procedure goes, it should first come to the government and the government will give their opinion, and then come to the Parliament. Then we citizens wonder what motives this government has brought to say we will not send this report to the Croatian Parliament. What institution is that? You see, it's about the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency, the HANFA abbreviations. Why didn't the report of HANFA come before us from 2016, especially I ask you, representatives of the HDZ coalition, because Prime Minister Plenkovic promotes the practice of a true European, cultural, transparent, how did he miss that report from sending us, and then we discuss it? Well, you see why, it's all about the bonds without cover and the Agrokor system. We saw two, three months ago that USKOK filed a fine against 13 companies because they issued all the expensive participants in the no-cover exchange, 3070 bonds without cover. And wait, so it wasn't just these companies that were involved in this business, and where was HANFA? HANFA is the headquarters of the supervision of precisely these businesses where these bonds without cover issued by Agrokor to its suppliers, and then suppliers knew that they did not deliver goods and fictitious accounts and bonds to discount or sell factoring to companies, and all these factoring companies owned by banks in Croatia. It is interesting here to note that the Ministry of Finance refused that report you see for 2016. So how come the Prime Minister Plenkovic wouldn't let his minister Maric speak what it says in that report. So, Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, you're running this session, please ask the Prime Minister to send us this report for 2016, to discuss what it says there because it's clearly a huge crime, it's a huge crime. But it must not end only on these 13 companies that participated in it but primarily on those in charge of the supervision of certain institutions, which is the Croatian Financial Institution Supervisory Agency. We expect the appearance of this report finally, I, colleagues and fellow MPs, ask you to support me in coming to that report, to come here to discuss it. And finally, let me just say one more thing about the state budget in it is going to get the most retired. In the 1990s, they had 75% of the average pensions, or on average wages, today they have twice as much as 38% compared to the average salary. They're victims, they're transferred to the altar of past governments, and they paid for it. The people and parties that have represented them so far have actually represented themselves and need dear pensioners they only need you when the elections are. Let's be smart, let's think about the future of our children. When dear citizens are the next election, let us go out mass and finally deal with those who have ruined us, let us support those who will turn Croatia in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u148225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164940	The first point is: - Proposal for a Coast Guard Act of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 755; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Defence Committee, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is respected Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164941	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Following the adoption of the National Security Strategy, the Law on the Homeland Security System, which formally and formally established the system and after 12 years of the application of the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, identified the need for the adoption of a new law with the intention of further developing the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian military, along with a basic mission and the task of protecting sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia's defence and allies of the mission of participation in operations, responds to crises abroad, participates in measures to build security and trust, provides support to civil institutions in protecting the rights of interest of the Republic of Croatia at sea, extinguishing open space fires, floods, search and rescue on land and sea, medical transport as well as other situations in a manner appropriate to the type and level of threat and circumstances in which activities are carried out. The use of the Croatian military's ability to support civil institutions and to act in synergy with other bodies is confirmed as the need for highly valuable and socially desirable tasks and as one of the rational and effective forms of use of state resources in cases of natural disasters, epidemics, distortions of energy and cybersecurity, threats to the natural environment, technological disasters and other rapid-growing crises, use of weapons of mass destruction and hybrid threats. The sea, seabed and seabed are particularly important for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore attention is focused on sustainable management and protection of wealth located in the maritime areas over which the Republic of Croatia has sovereignty, sovereign rights and jurisdiction. As pointed out, after 12 years of the adoption of the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia and its application, there is a need for the adoption of a new law in order to further develop the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. The Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia is organisationally relying on the available capabilities of the Croatian Navy. This mainly refers to the usability of the human potential of trained capacities and full logistics support for the implementation of all activities. The primary task of the Coast Guard is to monitor and protect sovereign rights and interests, as well as to exercise the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia in a protected eco-fishing and open sea, and in the territorial sea and inland sea waters, the Coast Guard provides support to our national authorities in the control and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea. The aim of this law is to define coast guard operations and powers of authorised persons, regulate all issues related to the functioning of the Coast Guard. The proposed law regulates the management of sea fisheries control, navigation safety control, marine environmental protection, nature protection and cultural heritage. The law lays down the powers of the authorised persons of the Coast Guard, which are classed according to the applicable law by category. The paper of this law is that the conditions for granting powers to authorised coast guard persons to carry out sea inspections in certain administrative areas are laid down. We believe this will contribute to strengthening security and protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea. As a measure of improving the state of security and the protection of marine space, the proposed law also recognises the role of central coordination, its expert body and regional units as the authorities responsible for coordinating the work in the surveillance and protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea. Finally, the proposed law represents a further improvement in the construction of the home security system and the operation of coast guard operations, as well as strengthening the cooperation and coordination of the work of competent national authorities at sea. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. I suggest you support the proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164942	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164943	Thank you very much. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club. When we talk about the Coast Guard Act, then we must ask a number of questions on which the Proposer has not given answers in how many cases the Coast Guard has handled and suspected criminal offences, which are violations, as we are witnessing that the Italian fishermen, the entire people, the coast guard, the Croatian army, are holding a middle finger, and that they are excavating fish as they wish to harm the Republic of Croatia, and especially all fishermen. MOST of Independent Lists has proposed to declare itself an exclusive economic belt and this is the protection of our territorial waters. In this case, we have 25,000 square miles of our sea unprotected. In 2013 the European Commission said in its report that Croatia loses 170m to 270m euros annually, which means that Croatia has lost 28 billion kuna since 2000, and when we look at that, it is 12 Pelje Bridges. Why can't you declare an exclusive economic belt? The MOST has put again into procedure to protect our seas, our waters. It's our responsibility because 28 billion kunas of damage so far is a huge damage. And now this law is in your procedure, if it's your problem that this is MOST's respected secretary's law, you suggest it and protect our territorial waters. This is our right, international law, we have this obligation to make to our citizens, not to terrorize our fishermen, and to court fascist Tajania exclusively to advance into European bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164944	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. A colleague named Zekanovic called.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164945	I'm also asking for a 10-minute recess for additional consultations on this bill. The reason is that the Secretary of State in a brief address here has not said a single word specifically about coast guard operations, in fact the key business did not say, and this is under the number of one in Article 5 of the Law, "supervision and protection of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia in the protected eco-fishing belt and epicontinental belt of the Republic of Croatia", therefore in a belt that has not been declared. So, how can we even protect something when we haven't applied our international law at all, the right to international maritime law, according to one good practice in the world, to protect what is ours, so for this reason I believe that this approach is an unsuspecting approach that you have, you have emphasized here three times sovereignty, and precisely the approach of your government means unsuspecting because over 23,000 km2 of our territory has been given, given to exploitation, said to usurping the neighbours, here I mean Italy first of all, but of course I also think of Slovenia. In fact, it is absolutely and ridiculous that we have banned fishing for all those non-EU fishermen, as if the Filipinos or Indians were coming here to fish, and we ourselves know that we have a problem with Italian gamblers. So I'm asking for a break to further consult on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164946	It's okay to take a break, and there's a colleague named Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164947	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also seeking a 10-minute break to further consult the Coast Guard Act. Before that, I'd like to say that I'm the head of the government task force in 2006, '07. and '08. preparing the Coast Guard Act and the need to establish a coast guard in the Republic of Croatia was in response to the declaration of a protected ecological fishing band. Namely, by declaring the protected ecological fishing band, the Republic of Croatia received about 30,000 km2 to be controlled. In fact, it is incorrect what I hear from my colleagues in the opposition that the Republic of Croatia did not protect its part of the Adriatic, to half of the Adriatic, from the border of the territorial sea, i.e. The protected ecological fishing band and its declaration have taken over all the important components of the economic belt, especially in the section relating to ecology and fishing, which is why it is also called a protected ecological fishing band, and in this way we have declared this protected ecological fishing band, he, we have declared it and reported it to the UN, and on the other hand we have suspended it to EU Member States. What I'm saying is that all the components of the economic belt also have an ecological fishing belt. If the Economic Belt were then declared, today the same policy in part of the Ecological Fisheries Belt in the part of the Fund's protection would be implemented in the Adriatic as it is implemented with a protected ecological fishing band. Therefore, there is no difference and still a protected ecological fishing band would not apply to EU Member States, and I, Mr. Secretary of State, is interested in giving us information on how many times the fishing inspection of the Republic of Croatia intervened along with the Coast Guard. in the case of infringement of the common rules [[Intruder: Thank you]] European fisheries policies. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164948	All right, we're gonna have a break by 10.45 and then we're gonna continue with the replicas, there's 10 of them. It's 10.31 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.49 HOURS]] He's a colleague of the Bulls first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164950	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, we haven't received many answers and I've asked them a question on behalf of the club at the station which is the most common offenses and crimes in the ZERP and whether we have enough at all right now and whether we are in control of anything at all, but I will repeat it again. Croatia has the right to declare an exclusive economic belt under international law and that is all we can do. We're a full member now. I understand that you had to court the honourable secretary during Sanader Carly Del Ponte because there was pressure to arrest all the generals and not to declare an exclusive economic belt. But now I don't understand why you don't accept MOST's proposal to declare an exclusive economic belt to protect our fish fund. And then the Coast Guard makes sense. Like this, uncontrollable parts of the sea and we live on tourism and because of ecological and flora and fauna, we will simply destroy it. Have strength, declare an exclusive economic belt, that's the obligation of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164951	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164952	I can answer this question you asked about the number of surveillances and similar to the Coast Guard and the data we managed to collect in this break. So, in the field of sailing, there were 25 controls. In the area of ZERP 25, same surveillance, control of fish fishing 232, sports fishing 93, control of fishing gear 21 and control of the area of coral sponges 7. Therefore, this shows that the Coast Guard has a number of activities when it comes to the application of this Coast Guard Act and other regulations for which the Coast Guard has been responsible, whether by inspection or similar activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164953	Second replica, comrade Grumo, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164954	From this report, it is quite clear that Croatia currently lacks enough people and no enough ships, means sea surveillance and no permanent presence in ZERP. So we Italian fishermen hunt at Long Island, they enter our territorial seas without talking about ZERP. And my colleague Bulj gave you a frantic fact that since 2000, if we take this report from the European Commission, where we talk about some 172 million euros a year, mostly because of tourism, we have lost more than 20 billion kuna. Imagine what we could have done, Secretary of State, with the money on the coast guard. There is your responsibility and responsibility for all those before you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164955	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164956	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I have to say that in the last few years a lot has been done on the coast guard's equipment. You must know, is it so, that the first ship was delivered, a new coast guard ship that went through all phases of the interrogation? There remains to be an agreement to build four coast guard ships, so a whole new fleet of 5 coast guard ships, of course with those ships and coast guard functions, will be raised to one much higher level, and all of this is then what you were talking about in the control process will indeed be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164957	Third replica of my colleague, Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164958	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, you said in your statement that this law does not require additional funds in the state budget, and now you have told colleagues never to the Grmoj that the Croatian Coast Guard is well equipped. I think we can make a move here. And I'll also tell you how we can actually find new funds for the Croatian Coast Guard. And that's also my question to you. So the Italian fishermen who fished in the Adriatic Sea, according to our information, were punished with 40,000 kunas. So, do you think that punishment is motivated or demoted for further fishing facilities that will hunt in the Croatian Adriatic? I think that punishment is embarrassingly small, that the penalties must be much greater so that the Italian fishermen no longer think of hunting in our sea, and then with the additional money we will equip our Croatian coast guard.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164959	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164960	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, the fact is that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget, i.e. in the budget of the Ministry of Defence because the Coast Guard exists today, there are also people who receive their salaries, there are funds, or there are all, funds for all costs. The fact is, what I said in response, Mr. Grumoja, is that you need additional equipment to do so with new means. I mean ships and these are the means that will surely be secured in the budgets of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence in the coming years. As far as the level of punishment is concerned, it is not, of course, the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence and the Coast Guard. It is the Coast Guard that implements and controls the implementation of the regulations. And whether punishment is high enough or not is none of my business to comment on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164961	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, Ante this time, Ante, Ante, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164962	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. My replica was also meant to be in the direction of equipment, since normally we can all agree that after 12 years it was necessary a new Coast Guard Act I think the equipment is the main issue we have to deal with, we should mention this exactly and modernization of existing ships, for which the Ministry of Defence has allocated a means of eating ships of the Ministry of Agriculture that will be used for the Coast Guard, but here I will upgrade the question only with the equipment of an important segment of the Croatian Navy providing coast guard and personnel, but it is important and I am interested in transforming the high school of military to the university because it is an important and main distributor of future maritime officers, so what is done on this issue, i.e. When will the university enter the military, military acts?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164963	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164964	I agree that the personnel are the key element of the entire system, which is why the Coast Guard is with the Croatian Navy because the Croatian Navy, the fact, is also available to staff and resources so that the Coast Guard can carry out its task at all. You know that a maritime study was established in Split with further transformation of the Croatian Military University is going and it will soon eventually be the University of Defence and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164965	Now it's time for fellow Dobrović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164966	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I truly believe that you and with this law and your work want the best in the direction of strengthening the coast guard. However, the circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia is located are entirely against you or against the entire Republic of Croatia, we must tell the Croatian public that the way ZERP was declared, so it was delayed, so the excluded EU member states are completely ridiculous and thus the Republic of Croatia shows in fact irresponsibility, incompetence, incompetence. The best picture of it is the middle finger of the fisherman who was caught, so in territorial water, so in the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia, so the only way to bring all this together is to declare the IGP where we could finally access this thing too much. how appropriate. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164967	Would you like an answer? No, I don't. Then let's go to the sixth line, Comrade Glasnovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164968	Dear colleagues, shipping is the sixth largest polluter global, you have a ballast release there in the Central Adriatic, you have, recently there was this summit Balkan in Bucharest and last year it was taken from satellites, satellite footage of us having 6 stains in our ZERP, we have in the Central Adriatic one-mile spot, last year it was recorded, what is it doing on this issue, what is our collaboration with these other institutions, international institutions like. International institutions for, for the conservation of ecologicals at sea, etc., with Slovenia, Italy, are being thrown daily into the northern Adriatic waste, not to mention the municipal waste that has come out here from Albania, etc., we are talking here about high strategy, cyber attacks, and we cannot stop at all the leak of shit, forgive the expression, from the septic caves in the Adriatic and throwing mattresses and bicycles, what kind of performance, bad preparation, bad performance Where are the fines? [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164969	...time's up. No answer, colleague Bacic, this time Branko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164970	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia was founded primarily for the purpose of harmonising the action at sea of all bodies, central authorities in the control and control of the protected ecological fishing zone. In this regard, I know that it was a project to rebuild the Coast Guard fleet and in order for the Coast Guard to fulfil the task given to it to monitor the protected ecological fishing zone, I believe it is extremely important to continue this project and to approach the realization of this very important project through the possibility of engaging the domestic shipbuilding profession. In addition to our goodwill, except for everything we do, except for a number of vessels, which are both within the Croatian Navy and within the framework of the coastal search for both the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Transport and Infrastructure, is therefore essential. that the Coast Guard is fully concerned. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164971	Answer, Your Honor, Secretary of State Ivić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164972	I agree with my colleague Bačić, the fact is that a coast guard project has been launched with 5 ships, coastal patrol ships, the first ship has been delivered, it continues with the realisation of equipment with an additional 4, so that, in due course, the coast guard of the Republic of Croatia will have 5 new coastal patrol ships so that it can carry out all those tasks provided for by law control and regulations that apply so at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164973	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164974	Thank you, Vice President HS. I'm sorry that the distinguished parliamentary colleagues in the opposition are neglecting and forgetting the fact when we talked about the National Security System Act, which was based on strategy and national security, so we said that we would go to changes to the Coast Guard Act. However, two things are to be noted here for public reasons, so coast guard and maritime police. Using a common radar system or different surveillance, the maritime police because of the internal external waters and the open sea, and on the other hand what you said about the coast guard. However, the proposal for this law gives the Coast Guard, in fact, certain powers relating to the implementation of administrative, certain administrative areas, particularly regarding agriculture. Does this mean that they will have people with them in the Coast Guard of the Ministry of Agriculture or that they will have the authority for certain administrative areas? ?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164975	Thank you. Secretary of State Ivić's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164976	Thank you very much. So the Coast Guard will have the authority to monitor the inspection, and so all coast guard officers must pass, as well as courses and all, and obtain certificates in order to be able to carry out surveillance and inspection at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164977	Thank you. The next replica, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164978	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I did not hear your comment earlier, so I now call you if you are willing to comment on me since the operations under Article 5 of this Act are coast guard supervision and protection of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia in the protected ecological and fishing zone, and Croatia is not one of 141 countries that declared the economic belt Croatia did not declare it as not declared by Hungary or Switzerland, with Hungary and Switzerland not having to. I'm interested in your position on the declaration of the economic belt and the ineffectiveness of the coast guard at all, given that we don't have a protected eco-fishing belt until the end, and we don't have an economic belt at all. So I want to hear your position as secretary of state in the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164979	Thank you. Secretary of State Ivić's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164980	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, I said what last year the Coast Guard was doing in control of what was authorised, it is ZERP and it is an open sea and that it was a surveillance in the area of navigation of 25 surveillance of ZERP, 25 control, control of fish fishing 226, sport fishing 93, control of the fishing gear 21, control of the area of sponges and coral 7, so this shows what the coast guard activities were in last year. My position around ZERP is not important at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164981	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164982	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Yes, we need this law, we need a coast guard, and we need to protect our borders, and you've said nicely to manage our resources through the sea, but it doesn't go without funds. And that's why it's strange for you to say that for the implementation of this law, we don't need additional resources because if we don't invest not only in ships but rather in people and other equipment from video surveillance, drones and so forth, we won't be able to protect our borders, and the evidence is that we have frequent reports of our fishermen and residents that we have unauthorized wastewater discharges, dump waste from ships, and when it's made known that the competent services don't come out because they don't have allegedly fuel for a speedboat. So if you don't invest in equipment and people, then we don't even have a border guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164983	Thank you. Secretary of State Ivić's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164984	I said no additional funds were needed because they were secured in the state budget or at the Ministry of Defence level for both this year and next year and when it comes to people, their training, but also when it comes to funds. So this year the resources for the coastal coastal vessel and the following year are foreseen and fleet equipment is provided for in the following years. So they don't need any extra funding, it's all within the limits of what's planned and what we can count on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164985	I thank the Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164986	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to say something to my colleague Bacic before the debate begins. My colleague Bačić is not the equipment of the Coast Guard your goodwill, it is the obligation of every government. You said it was good will, it is no good will, it is the obligation of every Croatian government. And now the law itself. I am particularly pleased to take part in this debate today because long ago the Croatian Coast Guard was not discussed in the Croatian Assembly as a special topic, and this is a topic of utmost importance for the Republic of Croatia and its security. The Croatian Coast Guard was for the first time regulated by law in 2007, which was probably not a coincidence at the time. Those with a longer track record in the Assembly will remember that at the time there were large debates over the declaration of an exclusive economic belt and its application on the Adriatic Sea. Unfortunately, instead of the economic belt then we declared ZERP a weak version of the exclusively economic belt, so that later we would decide and that ZERP would not apply to our neighbours at sea. But however special the law then created the legal basis for the formation and operation of the Croatian Coast Guard. Now 12 years later, we have before us a new Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia which according to the proposer has the following objectives: 1. to regulate all issues related to the functioning of the Coast Guard, 2. to determine the role of the Coast Guard in the supervision and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea, and 3. to define the tasks and powers of authorised coast guard persons. Before I engage in a debate about the bill itself, it is necessary for our public to explain why the existence of the Croatian Coast Guard is necessary and necessary in modern reality. In the beginning, we must realise that the Adriatic Sea is a large part of the state area of the Republic of Croatia. The area of the Adriatic Sea under the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, meaning the internal sea water and the territorial sea is 31,757 km2 that is Croatian state territory, and on a large part of the Adriatic Sea outside the state territory of the Republic of Croatia, certain sovereign rights and jurisdiction are exercised. I think we will all agree that in such a large area of 25,297 km2 of total surface area, which is equal to the land territory of the Republic of Croatia, effective monitoring and ability to act quickly and effectively should be organised. I believe that most of us and most of the citizens, meaning the sea, identify mainly with summer joys and tourism, but at our sea and we need to be aware of that, there are other activities that are not desirable. There are numerous dangers at sea such as pollution, illicit fishing, smuggling, illegal migration or terrorism. Therefore, any state that has ambition is called a maritime state must take care of maritime safety as an important component of the overall national security, and therefore, I have warned my colleague Bačić, it is not about the goodwill of this or that of the Croatian government, but about the task and commitment of every Croatian government that takes care of national security. And this is exactly where the Croatian Coast Guard enters the picture as an important assumption for the achievement of maritime safety in the Adriatic Sea. So I would now move on to the debate on the bill itself, although the law is nomotechnically high quality and professionally written in which it is reflected in the average legal proposals that come before the Parliament, I must object to the representatives of the Ministry of Defence for their inadequacy in the non-normal work. In this respect, any draft law should have an assessment of the situation in which the applicant states what shortcomings of the current law have been seen in practice and which is why a new law has been drawn up in the first place. If you look at the opening arguments of this proposal, you will see dear colleagues and colleagues that there are no such arguments in this legislative proposal. With this in mind, it would be good for the proponent to at least describe in short lines the current state of the Croatian Coast Guard so that parliamentary representatives are informed about it and so that we can discuss what we can do to improve it and improve it. This reading the reasoning of the bill gives the impression that the state of the Croatian Coast Guard is optimal and that there is no need for a new law at all. In the replica, I said that we were on the state of the Coast Guard but also on the state of total capacities for the control of the Adriatic Sea, we learned from the government's report at the end of 2017 when the government adopted a document entitled "A report on the protection of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea", you remember that MOST pressed the government and that the first decision of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic was to launch consultations on the declaration of exclusive economic belt and at the end of 2017, the Government gave this report in one reviewed and simple way, all the challenges of all Croatian services at sea were presented and the conclusion was that Croatia currently lacked enough people but that there were not enough ships needed for sea surveillance and especially for a permanent physical presence in ZERP. With the fact that you need to know that in the area of ZERP, the ship of the MUP, as well as the boats of port captains, do not set at all. So the physical presence in ZERP is being realized by Croatian Coast Guard ships. The state and equipment of the Croatian Coast Guard can be found out from the Annual Defence Report, the latest such report, which for 2018 shows that certain shifts were made in the equipment of the Croatian Coast Guard in December 2018 and this was mentioned by the Secretary of State, it was taken over from the home ship's prototype of the new coastal patrol ship and the report announced the purchase of a total of 5 coastal patrol ships which will certainly be used by the Croatian Coast Guard as a component of the Croatian Navy. However, it should be noted that the State of Defence report for 2018 speaks more about what it will be than about what it is. He would therefore ask the promoters to deliver at least indicative data on the condition and equipment of the Croatian Coast Guard today or until another reading. As for regular action, we saw that in 2018, the Croatian Coast Guard carried out a series of activities, followed and identified 158 fishing vessels, carried out 19 tasks of escorting foreign warships through our territorial sea and carried out surveillance of the safety of navigation around Croatian energy sources at sea. If I am not mistaken, the Croatian media reported that the Croatian Coast Guard was actively involved in the search and rescue action at sea, I think we all remember the case of a British citizen who fell into the sea in the middle of the night, our Coast Guard in cooperation with other services reacted timelyly and professionally, and that Mrs. found within about 9 hours of the moment, which still says we have enviable knowledge and experience and quality in humans. Despite these figures and mentioned facts, however, it seems to me that the equipment of the Croatian Coast Guard and other maritime services is still not at the level at which we should be as capable of proactive action and continued physical presence especially at the outer edge of our territorial sea and in ZERP. If that were the case, the recent unfavorable incident with an Italian fishing vessel found by the maritime police in a poaching near the Long Island. After being sent to Zadar, their attitude towards the legal conduct of the Croatian police showed by raising the middle finger to our journalists and media workers, although in this case the Coast Guard did not act, we still have to learn something from it. Italian fishermen illegally crossed the Croatian state border and injured it in perjury and when caught in their misdemeanor, they showed extreme contempt for Croatian laws and competent services. Let's ask ourselves why that is. The colleagues and colleagues know that Croatia does not care enough about the protection of its sea. This is because they know that Croatia does not have the capacity to effectively monitor its sea and ZERP. That's because they know we're carrying out a policy of irrevocableness at sea. It is a policy implemented by this Plenkovic government but unfortunately by the government before it. And yet they will come to Croatia's ZERP and to our territorial sea. Just because they know it's worth the risk. A colleague of Sladolev warned about how small punishments are, but rare are those who get caught in the first place. They don't come because they're just because the punishments are small, but because they don't get caught at all. So they know they're worth the risk because there's little chance they'll get caught. That is how it is, dear gentlemen, by ruling when a country that calls itself a maritime libi declares its exclusive economic belt and effectively oversees it and organises it. So we let the poachers, smugglers, and others know that we do not have the will or the strength to fight them and fight their activities. It is unfortunately our reality that will not change significantly while this government is headed by Andreja Plenkovic in the saddle. Instead of declaring the exclusive economic belt by ruling us with a high report that we do not understand, I quote that the Adriatic Sea is now the EU sea, that it is taken care of by the Union and that common European fisheries policies are being implemented on the Adriatic. And these European mantras are actually camouflaged by the fact that one reluctantness of our diplomacy and government as a whole. Regardless of the dissatisfaction of this government, we in MOST continue to believe that the declaration of an exclusive economic belt is a necessary assumption of better protection of the Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea and we will continue to work and insist on it. You have rejected the proposal, gentlemen, before the European elections here in the Croatian Parliament, but we have referred it back to the procedure and will come before you again. In conclusion, I'd like to return to the legal text itself for a moment. I already said at the beginning that the text of the law was written in quality and I am staying. What I would personally like you to consider is a question of the name of the law. Namely, if you look at the nomenclature of our army you will see that the basic components of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are called the Croatian Land Army, the Croatian Navy and Croatian Air Force. The following logic might be more appropriate if Ostraža RH bears the official name Croatian Coast Guard. But that's one cosmetic proposal to consider whose implementation would probably cause a certain cost, so I'll leave it to you for the assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164987	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Ante Bačić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164988	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia on which the introduction is here, and through the very replica we have opened some topics which are interesting in the very proposal of this law and which weighs both our representatives normally and which we can definitely change and discuss in further readings. Here, after the adoption of the Strategy of National Security and the Law on the Homeland Security System, we know that this law is stemming under the Ministry of Defence so that it binds to homeland security as well as to national security. The Coast Guard Act itself was passed 12 years ago in 2007 so that it is definitely 12 years after it is very important to reconcile certain shortcomings and make the entire coast guard system much more functional. As regards the very preparation of this legislative proposal, not only the Ministry of Defence but also the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Agriculture, but also the Ministry of the Sea, of course, each in its domain of competence and only the consultation on the interested public has passed. As far as the objective of this law is concerned is to define the tasks themselves and to regulate all coast guard affairs you have seen and under, I think Article 5 of the Law proposal, where they write all the powers and what the Coast Guard itself is responsible for and, normally, the main sentences and priorities are to protect sovereign rights and interests and to enforce the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia in a protected ecological fishing belt and open sea. In the territorial sea and inland seawaters of the Republic of Croatia, however, the Coast Guard provides support to other civil services overseeing this belt itself, primarily here, we are talking about the maritime police. As far as the bill is concerned, it shall be governed by the articles themselves and by certain actions when it comes to the interest of the Republic of Croatia at sea and concerning the control of marine fisheries, the surveillance of the safety of navigation, the protection of the marine environment and the protection of nature and the cultural heritage itself. We have seen through replicas and through the State Secretary's presentation, we know that the Croatian Coast Guard is relying on all the resources of the Croatian Navy. This is also related to the material equipment itself of the Coast Guard but also to the human potential which is trained by the Croatian Navy and provides logistical support for the implementation of all activities necessary. In accordance with Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the European Union, of the other part, are bound by this Agreement. As regards the adoption of the law itself, it is also related to further improvement of the home security system and to strengthening the cooperation and coordination of competent national authorities in the area of the sea. We know all the competences of the Croatian military itself, that it is a protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the defence of the Republic of Croatia, but normal participation in missions and other activities together with our allies, but all again in order and cooperation with civil institutions in order to protect the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea. Normally, this segment of the Croatian military is promoted to certain specialised activities, and this cooperation with the civil services is also related to the ceasefire and to the search and rescue on land and at sea, medical transport and other activities provided by the Croatian military to Croatian citizens. That is why it is important that the Croatian army is developing these specific specialized abilities and thus before us this Coast Guard Act. As far as the Croatian Navy itself is concerned, we know that in this reconstruction of the Ministry of Defence, the U.S. Navy Infantry in Ploča was formed, an extremely important segment of development. We talked a lot over and over again in the opening presentation of the secretary of state, but here are a lot of MPs through replicas just opened the question of the very equipment of the Coast Guard, along with this law, normally which is a more modern version after 12 years, but the main financial indicator and major problems to protect our sea, ZERP and territoriality are the very equipment of the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. We have heard that one ship from that segment has been taken over, five of us hope that it will soon be in Croatian shipyards designed for this very purpose, but we must stress that the Ministry of Defence has been thinking about this particular clue for the past three years, thinking and putting into its budget the funds used today, and will also be used tomorrow for modernising already existing cannons, but with cooperation with other ministries, especially what we are pulling out of the eu funds. Here with the Ministry of Agriculture in 2020 there will be two fast boat double purposed for use by the Croatian Navy just to achieve better equipment and coast guard capabilities. With the equipment itself, what the Coast Guard draws from the Croatian Navy is the very segment of human resources because the officers who are from the Croatian Navy are used normally and in the development of the Coast Guard. That is why this important segment is the emphasis of the military maritime study itself, which took shape in Split, which is also this academic year for the new future officers and is where they are trained. But this transformation of the High Military University into a university scientific family is also important because future scientific staff, but also professional staff, who will be educated at the current military school, especially at the Military Maritime Study in Split, but tomorrow at a military school through a five-year study, will be the creator of a definitely new generation of maritime officers. As for some specific attention, it is devoted to underwater control systems, the removal of submarine threats. We know that the sea, sea and seabed is particularly important for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore so much special attention is being paid to the protection of the wealth and sustainable management that lies in the maritime areas over which the Republic of Croatia has sovereignty, sovereign rights and jurisdiction. This bill is definitely well written, I think it will shape and modernise the Croatian Coast Guard system and the HDZ club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164989	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. The next debate on behalf of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives, a respected counterpart, Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164990	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. At first I will say what saddens me when I asked you a moment ago your position, and you have the same political function, you are the same official means you have received your term at the cabinet meeting because the Government of Andrej Plenkovic has appointed you to this place, your position on ZERP, you have said my position on ZERP is not important. And it's important because you're a politician, you're an official, and I want to hear it from both the Croatian public and the Croatian citizens want to hear your position about ZERP. So that's extremely important because when I know your position about ZERP that you are for ZERP for a protected eco-fishing belt or against it, then citizens can also assess whether you or your government have delegated what they want or not. It's very, very important and I'm sorry we didn't hear it from you. You didn't dare speak your mind. It is similar to what Dubravka Shuica has one position in Europe, the other here has no attitude or attitude, or we would say in Dalmatia “how a vitar smokes”. So for those who don't know, Hungary has an area of 93,000 km2, who cares about that, right? 93,000. Croatia has 56,000 km2 of surface area, is that it? No, Croatia still has its territory because when you come to the Adriatic coast, any settlement of the Adriatic coast, on any Croatian island, so when you jump into the sea you do not jump into anyone's land, you swim in the Croatian sea. So we also distinguish the internal seas, distinguish the territorial sea and Croatia has full jurisdiction, and this is 31,479 km2. So 56+31. I think it's all as expensive as then, 87 almost 88,000 km/2 is actually Croatia's surface identical to Hungary or just slightly smaller than Hungary. However, we have another part of Croatian space that bothers me when we talk about this law and no one has said it and it is 23 thousand 870 km/2 seas. Now, that's from the territorial sea. And for those who do not know, the territorial sea is a sea that is measured from the farthest point of the coast or the most protruded island and then another 12 nautical miles or about 20km to the epicontinental belt. So up to the epicontinental belt is, there are what, international waters where Croatia has the right to declare what? It's a business belt. And that's where we gave up 23,000 miles per second. Instead of teaching the children at school that Croatia has 110 thousand km/2 territories we speak 56. If the Hungarians were by chance at sea, they would have these 50,000 miles more territory but there they are not. But it's the same thing we do because we didn't take what's ours. And we're the only ones in the world, it's important to emphasize. The economic belt has been declared by 142 countries in the world. It was not declared by the Hungarians, the Swiss, the Czechs, the Slovaks. Why? 'Cause they don't. All the lost normal states that have seas have declared an economic belt. We're not. What's the reason? What's the reason why you as a politician here are afraid to say your position and say it in such a common sense, but we're a crazy people and a crazy state if we don't declare an economic belt. Because Italians in that belt each year are hunting how much? At least 200 million euros in fish. At least 200 million euros of fish in our part of the economic belt. So are we normal? And why is that? I get it when we were entering the EU, which was imperative, so every way we can get into the EU, so let's hand this over to Gotovina, let's give the territory to the Slovenians in the Piran Bay, let's give the Italians some fishermen. OK, we're in the EU today, let's declare it today. Because our EU spending annually is not 3 or 3.5 billion kuna, but another billion and a half kuna of fish, that is, everything the Italians exploit in our space. I still have to get in that historic sequence here. This House here, however, in 2003, declared this ZERP, and then in 2008, we canceled it and we said no one should fish there, just a little bit except for the Member States, means a fisherman from EU Member States. It's like we're having Indonesian, Indian or Filipino fish here. Well, of course it's only Italian. That's not all, since Italy and its inhabitants and fishermen know that we are who we are, so they mock us. They're making fun of us. They're recently, so our coast guard stopped the fish. What are Italian fishermen doing? They're making fun of us. And second time, they will not only fish in an economic belt that is not theirs but also fish again in Croatian territorial waters. And nothing to anyone. And we stand there, watching and watching. The mark of the sovereignty of each country is, of course, some kind of border, territory, language, currency. I hear that we also give up the currencies, that tomorrow we'll take that no-name euro currency to be in that one amorphous mass, that we never have the chance to be truly independent again. And when we talk about territory, the most beautiful example of how the state of Croatia treats its sovereignty is the attitude towards the economic belt. And now it's really not clear to me that here he is from this pay phone I can speak one truth that is so deep and heavy and that here you will find it more important to say and do what Andrej Plenkovic thinks than to boldly speak your political stance here for this speaker, we are not a normal state unless we declare an economic belt. And shame on us, shame on you. If it were up to me, they'd declare it tomorrow. But you're the government, and you're going to do whatever's right to whom? So which corresponds to the EU, which corresponds to Italy, which corresponds to Slovenia. And so is the Savudrian wave, so is the ZERP and so is the border with Serbia. It is not a topic but we are silent and we are not looking for what is ours, but we are letting Serbia enter the EU, not only to let go, but also to help it, and we have not solved the border problem, we have not solved it. I will repeat, Croatia has a full international right, a full right, to declare its economic belt to half, meaning international waters, or to the epicontinental belt. And it's 23.5 thousand km/2 and it's Croatian territory, it's Croatian space. It is not Italian, it is not Germany, it is primarily Croatia. It is also European, but it is primarily Croatia. However, the obvious policy of today's government is that we are increasingly Europeans, less and less Croats. However, the time will also come for the Croats, I am sure the Croats will wake up at some point and say no to this kind of policy, not to this kind of unsuspecting policy. And that is why there are Croatian sovereigns who will point to these problems and all the misery and misery of this current Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164991	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164992	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice-President HS, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, honourable representative Zekanovic, you say that I do not want to say my position, that I do not have this courage to say my position, which is simply not true. I said that my position at this point is not at all important, given that we are not discussing the economic belt, but we are discussing the Coast Guard Act and it is for me today the topic of debate here at the plenary session, you are continuing to return things to where you are returning them, that is your right as a parliamentary representative, so in this debate you have not debated at all about the Coast Guard Act, but you have discussed something else. My position is the same as that of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This government implements a very sovereign policy and all that we have done is, when it comes to the Coast Guard, that the Coast Guard may do the job that should be done and that it can do it to ensure that Croatian sovereignty in the area of responsibility is truly and respected. I said we'd have the coast guard ready, that the first coast guard ship was delivered, right, a new coastal patrol ship, and four more ships need to arrive, to get the other equipment needed to allow the coast guard to perform the function for which it was founded. So it doesn't stand at all what you were talking about when it comes to the government of the Republic of Croatia and the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164993	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164994	Dear Secretary of State, I have nothing against you personally, I really have nothing, and I have debated this law because in Art. Paragraphs 1 and 2 are explicitly cited as a protected organic belt as the main job of the Coast Guard. So, by discussing a protected ecological fishing belt, I've been discussing this law, so... 1st and 2nd centuries. But I am glad that you did say that sentence, I will repeat again I have nothing against you personally, but I am glad that you said that your position as the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, that is, the position of Andrej Plenkovic because he is, in fact, the creator of politics. So, Andrej Plenkovic is not in favour of declaring an economic fishing band, and that is not the government, and therefore neither are you and that story stops, and I am glad that you said that you are not in favour of declaring an economic belt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164995	Thank you. The answer to your honorary secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164996	So you out of the completely wrong facts, of course you can't even draw the right conclusion, so you've drawn the conclusion that you've drawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164997	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, independent representatives, esteemed colleague Zdravko Ronko, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164998	Dear Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, we have discussed this proposal at the club and of course the basic mission of the HR is to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, that this is defence, participation in operations abroad, but also particularly support for civil institutions. When it comes to maritime forces, they protect the territory and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia at sea, ensure freedom and safety of maritime navigation and movement, and comprehensive sea surveillance. For its economic development, the Republic of Croatia is particularly important for the sea, the sea and the sea floor, and therefore is focusing particular interest and attention on sustainable management and protection of marine wealth over the part over which it has sovereignty and jurisdiction. The Republic of Croatia has defined itself in the protection of these and such national interests for the Coast Guard model within the Croatian Navy and we have already been on the 12th year. We have in place this Coast Guard Act. And the Coast Guard, you know, relys on the availability of Croatian Navy facilities, from human to trained and full of logistics support. The primary task of the Croatian Coast Guard is to monitor and protect sovereign rights and interests, as well as to exercise jurisdiction in the protected ecological fishing zone and, of course, in the open sea, while in the territorial sea, the coast guard provides support to the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies in the control and protection of the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea. This construction and use of the coastal patrol ship is significant and the level of coast guard equipment is raised as soon as the existing maritime capabilities are improved, but it also significantly strengthens and coordinates and exchanges of data with other state authorities responsible for the safety of navigation. But how to get through those 12 years. It has already changed a lot, and new situations have arisen, the need for its further development, following this, and the adoption of a new Coast Guard Act. This proposal regulates and lays down procedures to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea with regard to the control of marine fisheries, the safety of navigation and the protection of the environment, natural and cultural heritage. The proposal of course for this law also lays down the taxation of the powers of the authorised persons of the Coast Guard who may exercise the control of the vessel in accordance with specific powers. So, we're going from a check-up of an outdated water facility, a stop to a water facility, a check-up of a person's ID, a check-up of a water facility, cargo and equipment, a check-up of a person, a temporary restriction of freedom of movement,... the confiscation of objects, giving warnings and orders, to persecution, to water treatment and use of force resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course everything in line with the particularly precise procedure that we have in this proposal. Also related to the establishment of a central coordination for the supervision and protection of the rights of interest of the Republic of Croatia at sea is the precise definition of its concept and composition as an inter-resent body for the purpose of coordinating and coordinating work, providing guidelines for the development of plans and the exchange of operationally interesting information between all competent authorities for the control and protection of rights, as well as monitoring the state of security and protection of marine space, subject to the continued proposal of measures to improve the state of security and protection of maritime space under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia. This law accurately defines the concept, composition and jobs and the way the expert body works in coordination, as well as the regional units of coordination, their part-time jobs and mode of work. Of course, a particularly prescribed and elaborate way of cooperation between the Coast Guard and other authorities responsible for the supervision and protection of the rights of interest of the Republic of Croatia at sea, as well as a way of cooperation with international organisations bodies in accordance with the regulations and international agreements concluded. Finally, as there were no specific remarks from the Labour and Solidarity Club of Independent Representatives, this proposal will support the planned objectives of increasing the capacity of the Croatian Coast Guard as well as the Homeland Security System. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u164999	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ronka. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165000	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State and Associates. What I can say at first is we have a correct proposal that can certainly be improved through these discussions, because, I say, generally here as well as the speakers before me no one has found this significant remark but let's try to improve the situation a little bit. I would like to mention, in particular, three articles that I would like to personally highlight as something that should be considered, somehow from the end, firstly, refers precisely to sanctions that can be taken primarily on fines for which, when we look at what should be punished, it means which ones are, for example, listed. orders that are directed towards a water facility that refers to dangers, means threats that pose a threat to life or property or criminal acts or destroying evidence that is personally here and we at the club consider that there are a lot of difficult indications. If we look at the fines themselves, they are at the level of the offence in some road traffic of between 2 and 15 thousand 500 and 4 thousand for natural persons. If we're looking so real, then somehow we seem to be banalizing. Because if a driver of a private vehicle does a punishable shop or a threat to life or property, if we look at the new law, we get to some cumulative penalties that we see in the media are tens of thousands of kuna. Therefore, given the value of the sea and the potential of the threats that are constantly taking place, here would be one suggestion that you might still develop these categories, of course, that some minor offences are not subject to high penalties but to those who really have great potential for the threat of life, property or in particular. And what does destroying evidence really mean? The evidence can really be serious we're facing a number of here smugglers, let's imagine one like that is a really hard example. Someone's smuggling through our territorial waters now, some immigrants, and they can just throw these people off the boat. He's what, destroyed the evidence. The penalty for that is banal. So here's what I'm saying is one way of just thinking, these are now extreme examples, but there can really be examples like that, and here's why I'd like you to consider another reading. Secondly, I'd like to warn you about article 80 that talks about funding, where you've listed which may actually be the purpose of funding, the source is the state budget, but even if you hadn't put that article on, would something have changed? So by putting in that article that you've achieved? One article more in the law itself, which does not speak about the amount, speaks about the purposes when it is summed up these are all purposes, all the needs that the Coast Guard may have, you have also declared but that they are not mentioned, means financing what the Coast Guards are needed, if this is a formation that is now part of the Croatian Navy, what is being financed and the Croatian Navy, of course, will be financed, the funds come from the state budget, and yet I expected in this article that you might at least indicate some amounts or some needs or priorities. This seems to me to be a more bureaucratic article that will not contribute to the quality of funding. And when we talk about funding, needs are different. Because looking at this note is in the debate, the plan is modernization but we are aware that especially with such threats that occur and with certain groups of criminals using our seas that our vessels are not adequate to achieve speeds. And what for example. It is often referred to as an adequate question, for example. helicopters with which to dispose. Obsolete Mi-8. They perform their services with great effort and crew knowledge but that with specialised helicopters that would be purchased it would certainly be much more efficient and faster and there would be no situation in which we simply and when certain punishable actions are observed that cannot be answered for technical disadvantages. It is always a question and how to expand action. In the old days, these actions that you have cited are not the only threats, we often meet when we speak not only certain crimes from the general spectrum but there is also once a question of protecting the eco-systems, and it is said here, colleagues have mentioned ZERP where they have economics. It needs to be trained to prevent not only the act of action but also the consequences that can arise. Recently, counterpart Ante Pranic also spoke about the issue of seagulls that can arise right from crime. So what? We'll have the coast guard, we'll have the police who can observe until the ship from I don't know where it's located in Trieste, comes, which, it's already causing great damages that will only be recorded, but here we are powerless. We must continue to work on unification and in particular on equipment to prevent not only prevention, prevention but also the consequences that can come more adequately can be followed financially is it sure that there is a strong need for funding. But also the coordination that you have stated that there are several ministries involved in this to expand perhaps to other aspects, so that all of these services dealing with this problem can ultimately be more adequate to respond. And then around Article 54.2, there's one expression that I've noticed, you've stated that the persecution of a foreign water facility, I've highlighted a foreign one, can only begin if a suspicious water facility is in internal waters, the territorial sea, the ZERP or the epicontinental belt, is indicated by the sides. And what if we have a home water facility that does the same thing? Does the Coast Guard, after this, turn out that the Coast Guard doesn't approach it? I don't know what it means in these situations if any of the ships on our territorial waters, our ZERP, are we looking at them as domestic or foreign or do we have some kind of perk? We are talking about actions that the Coast Guard acts for and if there are any suspicious actions or any criminal acts. I don't see why there's any need to limit it, here to cite exclusively a foreign water facility, is that we've somehow made a restriction again, and I'm afraid it doesn't turn out that the Coast Guard notices something and says we simply don't have jurisdiction and we can't act because it's our law. Someone's really gonna call you on this. And there may be a situation where if a vessel points out a Croatian flag that may not be accurate or the markings you will see at first if it is found that you do not do so domestically? To be honest, only in this part of the word is whether there is a need to state that it is exclusively foreign or that it can be a vessel that has been spotted, it would certainly have one broader and would open up the possibility of action. So within this, we will consider what will come from further discussions and therefore bring a vote-related position, but here I would also ask the representatives of the ministry that these which we have presented should be respected in the preparatory and other readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165001	Thank you. On behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, respected counterpart Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165002	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As is usually the case with the proposal for a new law if there is no content of the law of important objections then the debate is extended to one of the topics that has been said conditionally close to what the government is proposing, and so it happened in the debate on this law. And it was to be assumed that the most today will be about the exclusive economic belt or the proposals of the laws that some of the colleagues and clubs of the Croatian Parliament have referred to in the procedure, not the very essence of the law. I would say on behalf of GLAS that we support amendments to the laws or amendments to the law and a new law after many years since the past law was passed in 2007 and that there are reasons that simply because of the modernisation of the law are the real reasons that the laws are being amended. In particular, this paper sets out the conditions for authorising persons in the Coast Guard to carry out inspection tasks in certain administrative areas. I would say that although this issue of the Coast Guard Act is a matter addressed by the Ministry of Defence because the Coast Guard is part of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for us in GLAS, this law may be a first-class economic issue or a strategic relationship of the Republic of Croatia to the resources that the Republic of Croatia has, and it is definitely that the sea, namely the coast, islands and sea, is one of the key resources on which the economic future of the Republic of Croatia may also rest. So any law that goes towards protecting this resource or better organising its protection, and this law, in our opinion, goes in that direction, is something that should be welcomed and that this HS should be treated as such, and not as a place where we will conflict who is a greater patriot, and who is smaller and talk about issues of sovereignty which are some issues that have long since been in developed, economically developed countries, are not really issues. The question of sovereignty is real sovereignty is the issue of sovereignty in the economy, not the amount of squares, thousands of squares of squares of squares of the territory you have and the question is how do you treat that territory, how do you treat it? What may be important to us here is a question that, with which we should expand the debate on this law, is in fact the real state of the equipment of our coast guard because we can swear here and wish to have another tens of thousands of kilometers under our jurisdiction, but the question is whether or not we have the equipment, and also the resources, human resources to cover such a large space and to adequately cover it, which means that we protect it from all possible threats, from potential attacks, to the exploitation of our neighbours of that sea space. What we are told, unfortunately, is that the initial plans were to be significantly updated or enriched with new equipment, new coast guard ships, I'm interested in exactly what happened in the past 3 years, namely, it's been ordered to me by five new ships, it's only one of which I have the information, in the full drive, what about others who are supposed to have been ordered about 400 million kunas can't be seen from available, available information that we as Parliament's representatives are able to have, so I'm interested in building new ships because most of the ships that are used in the coastal watch are defacto ships that are still taking over, and during the war of the Yugoslav Navy that are probably also technological and in all other ways of ships that are not expected to be used in these days, and those who are able to be able to be able to be able to communicate with the potential, as far as possible from here, which we can be able to be able to communicate with some of reason, which we know from what we know from what we know from what we can be, what we know from what we can be, what we can be, and what we can be able to understand, and how we can be able to understand, what we can be able to understand, what we can be, and what we know from what we can be, what we can be, and what we can be, what we can be, what we know from what we know from what we know, what we know from what we know from what we know, what we know from what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we know, what we are, what we are, what we What this law proposes is something that is reasonable at this point, but parallelly it should follow with both adequate equipment and the construction of new ships, as well as the education of the people who will do so. So, we should focus here primarily on ensuring peacetime, not from any threats or territorial claims from neighbours, given that our main neighbours are also in the EU and NATO membership, I don't think in this sense we have direct threats unless there is some global, global war, but we are in the interest of, meaning economic protection of what we have and what we have, from how fishing should work, to fish farming, to tourism and nautical tourism, to the wealth that we have in the sea and in the sub-sea, but in recent times perhaps the most that we focus on protecting our sea, cooperation with scientists, which is the proposal of this law in some way and allows, means this close cooperation. However, I have a question for the ministry, what exactly about equipment, means in terms of new, new ships and its equipment, and the people have done to modernise the coast guard so that she can adequately do her job so that we can be, saying that we are satisfied with the work we are doing. Here, so much for first reading, we think that the law, that the law, because it is aimed exclusively at the coast guard, has met the challenge that has been put before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165003	I thank my colleague Turina Đuric. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165004	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, respected secretaries with their associates and time was and I was honored to participate in this debate because the Croatian Coast Guard is a very important issue and always stands for some kind of secretary who simply did not guarantee that we were guarding our territory because the sea and land is our territory, as we protect the mainland, the obligation of the Croatian State to protect our sea, the Adriatic Sea, because it is a huge potential and resources, and yet here it was yesterday we had the Day of Independence and from this context Croatia has a commitment to those generations that were created before the state and also future generations to protect our and territorial seas and declare an exclusive economic belt if we have the right under the UN Convention and '82. This year, according to international law, we also have the right to declare this and for this reason I am not a shrewd person, but I am disappointed that we have not declared an exclusive economic belt, but MOST has given this proposal here and before giving political options, unfortunately in the conditions of entry into the EU, in order to court our policies at that time under the pressure of both The Hague and Carla Del Ponte and the EU institutions had to kneel, we had to arrest all the generals, we should not have declared an exclusive economic belt. That you secretaries know well, you were Minister in these governments, is the assistant minister I don't know that Croatia shouldn't have done this, could it have just been the habit of pressing the Hague stick and there Croatia had to kneel and crawl in front of European officials both in Croatia and in the world and in European halls, even toasting with Carla Del Ponte when the arrest was Ante Gotovina, let alone our generals, let alone that we had the strength to declare an exclusive economic belt. Now that we are a full member of the EU, I don't see any reason why, when we are already discussing the coast guard so as not to protect all the waters that are anyway, our Adriatic Sea, our territory, that is our territory, where we see that we have problems that ships are not only uncontrollably entering, which is what Italian fishermen are raising our middle finger to all of us, and especially Croatia's coast guard, which I hope will also be called the Croatian Coast Guard, I believe that the Armed Forces, any police, any Croatian military in this case, the Ministry of Defence will have the best equipment and with that tendency we must discuss this seriously. So we have to strive to have the best equipment and that we have the best technical material resources that the Armed Forces can control, and not that it's happening, I mean in the RH the sewerage from our ships is spilling out in our ports uncontrollably, nor is the concern of fishermen, fishermen are literally mocking Italian, and I wouldn't exactly say here that we're all equal inside the EU, perhaps on paper, but as far as the economic belt and behavior is concerned only. The ZERP you are calling for is a strange beaker, parts of it as if you have declared it, that you have bought a car without a driver, a car, a roof, no blinkers, no lights, and then you have said, we have now declared nothing but a ridiculous decision where Croatia absolutely does not control its territorial seas with our coast guard being reinforced, the triba being invested in it, we have a violation that has listed, certain violations that are minor and fines are minor, I do not know at all that 40,000 kuna has been mentioned that the penalties have been for all that foreign fishermen have made, but there are also claims that there are always from the EU leaders coming from Italy, such as Tajani, your friend Andrej Plenković and HDZ, it is your legitimate right to be in cooperation with the European public party on and our water, not only the Adriatic waters of our water, but the Adriatic Sea. Therefore, there are still certain claims, but the Croatian people were always able to defend themselves, so this day will defend themselves here as I mentioned yesterday was Independence Day, Croatia has won the victory, we have, here today it would be good to remember all these heroes who gave their lives, here today is also the anniversary of the great man, patriot, commander, warrior, fellow Andrija Matijaša Spider and many others who died in the last operations of the Croatian army then in the area when we helped with the Split agreement Izetbegović – Tudjman, helped in BiH to prevent the Velco-Serb crimes in the Bihaćka Enclava area. So we have independence but we have no determination. It's too much service. We must declare an exclusive economic belt, strengthen Croatia's coast guard, so it is called, if the Croatian Army, the Croatian Army should not then be the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, but Croatia should clearly say the Coast Guard and not have a problem with that. The announcement of an exclusive economic belt, I said I was at a stop, by an analysis of the European Commission from 2013. Croatia loses annually due to the failure to declare an exclusive economic belt of 170m to 270m euros. So from 2000 to today, we've lost an equal of 28 billion kuna, which means somewhere around 12 Peles bridges. How much of these could have been invested in coast guard, in ecological conservation, in buying these ships that could have provided ecologically, and not that we now have a recovery in case we see that we have a stain on the Adriatic, which is the only reason we have this tourism stream, the currents on the Adriatic are the ones that are in the middle of the Adriatic that are larger than the surface of Split. Imagine that this stain happens, so we don't have that part of the ecologically secure, let alone this part where we don't control the entrance of foreign ships, old fishing fleets, and we haven't protected the flora or fauna. As we look at our fishermen' nets and how big their shafts are, and that's why our fishermen go to other countries to hunt and live until the Italians here hunt with their carriages, big ships, big ships to the fleets, just defend, they defend everything and flora and fauna, the game, they pick up, and where they pass there's nothing left for them, there's nothing left for them, so we have power, we have a sovereign state, we have both ourselves and a UN convention and we have a Council of Europe, it calls for us to declare an exclusive economic belt, and that's ultimately our obligation. If we're protecting our territory, so the land part of the border, we have to protect the water, that's it, we have to sea. It's the same because when we look at these 25,000 unprotected and 31 of us, slightly less than 32,000 km2 that we protect our territorial waters, we have to protect these other 25,000 m2 because it's our obligation, and it's not our obligation here that we create the privilege of fleets of Italians that are much stronger than our own, our literally one village in Italy has a stronger fleet of fishermen than we and our entire Adriatic, we have allowed them to butchers, destroy flora and fauna and make profits. So because of future generations we have an obligation to protect and, of course, strengthen our Croatian Coast Guard, I agree here and believe that there is a good will of the Ministry of Defence. But the government and this parliament, in particular parliament, and the government would have to declare, must, it is our obligation to declare an exclusive economic belt because we have a basis in international contracts and we see how much damage Croatia has, here I just said 170m to 270m euros a year and these are huge amounts, so we could build the Peljesic Bridges ourselves, have a material and technically better equipped Coast Guard, the Croatian Coast Guard, we could... Here are a few questions at the end... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm curious about what the trends are, if you have an analysis of the meaning of criminal acts in the so-called so-called crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] ZERP because it's not being respected, it's weirding the beak out of the IGP, it's something made, some modus, I'd like to hear about it, meaning what effects, what trends are, because I just know that the fishing fleet, the Italian gang, is 2% behind us, but they're giving us all a middle finger, their fishermen in our territorial waters, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165005	Thank you. We have a replica, dear colleague Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you keep mentioning the amount of 28 billion kunas or euros, I don't know what information you've given, it should be quite accurate, precise and cautious. After 2013 when Croatia became a full member of the EU, regardless of whether Croatia has an economic belt, whether Croatia has a protected ecological fishing belt, the conditions for our fishermen in the protected ecological fishing band do not change anything today Croatian fishermen would not have any better conditions for fishing than they would have if the economic belt had been declared. You're saying that ZERP is, in relation to the economic belt, like a car without a speedboat or without an engine, it's not true. If the economic belt is full of equipment, then ZERP is a car that has no heating seat, that's the only difference in fishing between the ZERP and the economic belt, none.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165007	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165008	My colleague Bačić, when there is no difference, could declare me an exclusive economic belt and a full application of the exclusive economic belt and not make one strange beak to say, without heating, steering,... would you buy a car without heating, steering wheel, sizzling, shale driver, lights, blinkers, wouldn't, so we made a strange beak in order to show the public that we were protecting national interests, not protecting them, but we were talking to them according to the instructions from The Hague, from the European Commission, from the EU, we had to flirt but now it's time to be a full member and to end this strange beak and to declare the application, full application of the exclusive economic belt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one is the solution, so the elimination of the strange beak ZERP that has nothing to do with declaring an exclusive economic belt, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165009	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear state secretaries with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, counterpart Bacic expressed the position of the HDZ club under the proposal of the Coast Guard Act. I'm already in the morning and when I asked for a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I said something important about the Coast Guard. Therefore, efforts to establish the Croatian Coast Guard began in 2004 and then as secretary of state in the ministry, I led the government's task force to establish the Coast Guard in the Republic of Croatia. Then why did we start the Coast Guard? Except for the reason that before the then government was the implementation of the decision to declare a protected eco-fishing belt declared by the Government of Ivica Racan in 2003 in the 9th period. Right before then's parliamentary elections. The decision was then made to declare a protected eco-fishing belt, which is 99% in terms of content, has the content of the economic belt. I believe that at that time, and there was a will when we had already established and expanded our sovereign rights, not sovereignty, that's what MOST colleagues are mixing, so when we extended our sovereign rights to the Adriatic, it was necessary to immediately declare a full exclusive economic belt, it would be a better decision. We didn't do it then, that was at the time I say, in 2003, but it should be there until the end correct and say that Croatia consumed 99% of all its contents provided by the International Convention on the Law of the Sea which is not and that needs a word that is the difference between the ZERP and the economic belt. First of all, we cannot build artificial islands, but given that Croatia as a coastal state has an epicontinental belt, we can use this right based on the fact and the right of an economic belt that does not provide us with a protected ecological fishing belt, we can use all the elements in an epicontinental belt, such as the use of oil and gas, and Croatia is doing so even in that country since the former state had the right to half of the Adriatic Sea. Therefore, in this part we consume right through some other element of the belt, not through the ZERP and the construction of artificial islands. The only thing we can't use in ZERP is wind and sea energy, which is, given the fact that the Adriatic is, in the area of the protected ecological fishing zone, all are large depths, there is very and difficult, complicated to the current technological processes to use wind and sea energy. Therefore, what I just said to my colleague Bulju, if the economic belt is a car with full equipment, then it is a protected ecological belt, a car that has all the equipment other than the heating of the seat, is so much different, since we have been a member of the EU because what is important for Croatia, which is the protection of the fishing fund and the environmental protection of the Adriatic Sea, it can be very simple and the Croatian government, the Croatian state protects it in that area by declaring ZERP. As Croatia enters the EU on 1 July 2013, the protected ecological fishing band becomes the EU's common water, it would become responsible and be responsible for what Mr Bulj and colleagues from the Most say, it would also become an economic belt, so that in 2003 we declared an economic belt. The same relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, the EU under that belt, would be as it is today, by declaring a protected ecological fishing band. Therefore, to send to the Croatian public such data, that Croatia loses 20 or I don't know how many billion kunas, euros, I don't know what they're saying is incorrect, false and false. So, Croatian fishermen today by declaring a protected ecological fishing belt in the same position as their colleagues from Italy, above all, because this is what is most said here, they have no worse position to declare the IGP, exclusively an economic belt. So that's on one side. To get back to what's on the subject, this isn't the topic of this, it's going somewhere as an important part of the Coast Guard debate. So in 2006, we started to establish a state body that can carry out protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia because here in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian public, when we talk about the economic belt and the protected ecological fishing zone, we are talking primarily about the neighbouring country of Italy, but there are many other states, their ships, which fly through the Adriatic and at this point, although the protected ecological fishing zone, when it comes to the EU Member States, becomes a common sea, it is not a common sea for example for the flag I don't know, Grenada or Liberia, these are countries with very large, flags of convenience, have a lot of ships, for Turkish, for Japanese, for which ships, for the United States, for the United States, when they enter the ZERP, in a protected organic fishing Belt, they are related to measures such as to non-EU member states and where Croatia, and our Coast Guards, can carry out very important in all the EU members and not. So, when the protected ecological fishing belt came into force, we sent a note to the UN, the secretary of the international Convention for the Law of the Sea, and since then a protected ecological fishing belt has been led there as a belt in the Adriatic where the Republic of Croatia has sovereign rights and for this reason we were able to charge in 2007 by a Turkish shipowner whose boat is... Adriatic on February 6, 2006 was burning in the Adriatic, all the damage he caused in the ecological sense to the Adriatic and all the interventions of Croatian state bodies, and private entrepreneurs that the state then hired to put out that fire on that ship that could have gone to disaster, an explosion that could have really polluted the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, when it comes to the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia in that part of the Adriatic, Croatia has them. And if any ship had done the same thing to any other country or member of the EU as the Turkish shipowner did, Croatia would have been charged, as in the ecological work, Croatia is carrying out full supervision. What is disputed as far as I can see from my colleagues from MOST, they hold that in that area Italians, so the fishermen from Italy act as if it were their sea, not true, they must behave the same way Croatian fishermen behave because they say they are both common waters and the Coast Guard as far as I know, last year they had 353 control over fishermen who fish in a protected ecological fishing belt. We witnessed many times on HRT showing where the Coast Guard, along with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, had arrested a large carriage of fishermen from Italy, and there were large fines paid. Therefore, Croatia is carrying out its supervision there. According to one French study, for one km2 control of the economic belt or a protected ecological fishing belt it is necessary to provide EUR 65,00 per year on condition that you already have vessels, that you have everything you need, so EUR 65,00, and times 24 000 around km2 as ZERP, that is about a million and 600,000,00 EUR. The Republic of Croatia is currently providing more coast guard services and what is needed, I have said before, we need to provide equipment, ships for quality control of this large area of 24 000 km2, so here is my suggestion to provide sufficient resources in the next budget to complete the Coast Guard fleet, which I think is about 450 million kuna or another 380 million kuna for 4 patrol ships, and when we do that, with all other equipment that has the MUP, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and other ministries, I think we can really control that part of the Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165011	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. Replica, dear colleague of Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165012	Dear counterpart Bačić, therefore, in your debate, you have mainly replicated our debate on this law, in fact, you have replicated our proposal of the IGP Act, so you have also spoken about the fact that MOST wants to do so because of some political points, and I will only remind you that an initiative has appeared which has nothing to do with politics, which also wants to declare the IGP in which some Croatian generals, university professors, therefore they do not have some agenda as some political party at the expense of some legal proposal to declare the IGP, so again they advocate it, so it is not just one political party, but it is a single initiative of broader proportions and people who are referred to maritime rights that also want to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165013	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sladolev, the states must lead their policies, smart politics, when and at any time declare something that the international convention allows you to do. The great states, the maritime states, and France, and Portugal and Great Britain are therefore not in '82. When the International Convention on the Law of the Sea enabled them to declare an economic belt, they did so at the same time, but they valued the most favourable moment they would do so. And the Republic of Croatia that has ZERP at this point and the Government of the Republic of Croatia holds that it is necessary to do other international affairs, that I do not state them here in HS, I think you know what I'm talking about and then declare an economic belt, and I say more that by declaring ZERP we do not lose anything financially for the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia, and then declare an economic belt, first of all, to be satisfied with ourselves, and not something that is important in economic terms for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165015	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. Next debate, respected counterpart Petar Škoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165016	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President HS, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, and for this debate on the Coast Guard Act, I have applied among other things and for the reason that I have participated in the work of the Coast Guard expert body for several years, followed the initial establishment, operation, integration of different state bodies into one operational body and recognized both these initial problems and weaknesses, and also the advantages and everything else, we have heard from the applicants the reasons for the adoption of such a law after 12 years, so after it was adopted safely with one time-out and through central coordination and through the professional body, certain things that need to be changed in this law. The applicant pointed out the recognition of the role of coast guard in strengthening inter-resorship cooperation at sea, and sees it as a link of all components, primarily the capacity available to board on its vessels mixed teams composed of other state administration bodies, which points out inter-resorship cooperation between other authorities, so from police, captains, customs, fishing inspections, that coast guard members can board their vehicles and thus further educate coast guard members from the administrative area for which they have the authority. Therefore, there is also a role in removing and curbing the risks of importance for national security, and all in line with the national security strategy and the Law on the Homeland Security System, and primarily in the formation of a pre-border situation picture of the situation in the area of the ZERP or the open sea in which the coast guard has primary jurisdiction. The primary task of this proposal is therefore to define more clearly coast guard tasks and to give them opportunities to expand these tasks in accordance with specific regulations. The rest of the role of the Coast Guard in ZERP remains unchanged and this is therefore in line with our regulations and regulations that our country has implemented, so to its EU legislation. The intensity of this law is to encourage other state authorities to recognize more than they have so far coast guard capabilities and to give the Coast Guard powers from their administrative areas for which they can, they believe, benefit from the Coast Guard. Thus, in relation to the current state and activities of the coast guard, much greater assistance can also be provided in the field of environmental protection or pollution, cultural heritage protection, surveillance of navigation security, and here in the fires at sea. This proposal clearly provides for the powers and powers of authorised persons of the Coast Guard to act by categories, and also in a clear way opens up the possibility of granting powers from other administrative areas, for which until now there has been no jurisdiction, so for the first time this gives the coast guard the possibility to sanction offenders at sea in the area of non-compliance with the Coast Guard Act, as well as unequivocally giving them the possibility to initiate procedures against offenders at sea from other administrative areas. Therefore, through the work of the central coordination and of the professional body, a lot has been seen, so that the central coordination should be through me by a representative of the Customs Administration and the Director of Civil Protection. So, from 2007 to today there was a huge number of meetings and coordinations, I would here, given that I studied the law I would refer to several provisions. Article 7(1) defines that the Coast Guard is an integral part of the Croatian Navy or that its employees are persons of military activity. Therefore, this raises questions and objections regarding their treatment of civilian persons and there is thought about whether, given this status, coast guard should have been singled out as a separate agency with clear public powers within the Ministry of Defence, therefore with its own budget, with military acts and the possibility of using the capacity of the armed forces, and I am primarily saying so because it would also open up the possibility of financing such coast guard from the European Funds. Article 8(2) provides that the Coast Guard shall have the authority to plan and carry out coast guard operations in coordination with other authorities responsible for the supervision and protection of the rights of interest of the Republic of Croatia at sea. I believe that, given this command, they should establish a 24-hour operational watch to coordinate with other authorities of the state administration because they are currently using the facilities of the HRM operations centre through the operational duty of the coast guard, however, which is not formalised or systemised, so in which the authorities of the coast guard are on duty, but do not have their job, head of shift, assistant, operator, etc., so there are no people professionally trained to do these jobs, and I believe that this should be resolved. So in law, do you allow that question to be resolved? Article 11(2) and (3) concerning the coordination and coordination of actions, I believe that a representative of the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Red Cross should also be in central coordination, given their significant role, especially in cases of seagulls with a large number of victims, do not God forbid that we also have a cruise and so on. and the occurrence of various infectious diseases in cases of the arrival of a large number of illegal migrants by sea. We know that many state bodies have signed and prescribed standard operating procedures, with some faster with some slower ones, but I think that through these, this cooperation should be extended to all state bodies and organisations that can be involved and help be part of this system and like firefighters, so that the fires at sea and so on. Article 11(5) is of the opinion that the chairmanship of the Central Coordination with representatives of three key ministries, namely defences, maritime and internal affairs, should also be added to the representatives of the Ministry of Maritime Fisheries and the Ministry of Customs, Customs Affairs, primarily for the reasons that both of these ministries have, therefore, human and material resources at sea, so both crews and vessels, and I think they would also be given the importance to engage more strongly and to participate in the work. As regards Article 12(4), it states that the central coordination brings the Rules of Procedure on its work, my proposal is to add the Rules of Procedure on the work of the expert body and the regional coordination units. This would practically define, through one point of the law, the making of these Rules of Procedure, and not later, repeat and unnecessarily define the way in which the rules of procedure are adopted for professional bodies and regional units. With regard to the management of the expert body itself as defined in Article 14(4), I consider it not good for the chairperson to amend the representative of that ministry, chaired by the central coordination, in particular for the reasons that administrative and other tasks related to the expert body are carried out by the Head of the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, with which the representative of the Central Coordination Presidency has no direct contact or the possibility of imposing the preparation of working materials for the meetings. Therefore, for the sake of operationality, it should be pointed out to me that the chairperson of the expert body should be changed by his or her deputy or by the person to whom he or she would be authorised and thereby significantly improved. As regards Article 15, I am of the opinion that, in addition to the tasks carried out by the professional body, it should be classified to draw up and adopt a plan of professional lectures intended for authorised persons. That's what's been going on so far, so here's why they're training and raising their levels. Article 17(4) on working time is prescribed that, when representatives of the Ministry of Defence and Maritime Affairs and Home Affairs have people involved, the Ministry of Maritime Fisheries and Finance in the professional body therefore do not have this and I think that their working time should be prescribed and that meetings should be held once a week and thus improve the functioning of coordination and professional bodies and thus improve their mutual coordination. Currently, only the MORH and the MUP have permanent members while even the Ministry of the Sea still does not have a permanent member in the work of the expert body which is unimaginable, so it refers to the sea, and they do not have a permanent representative who should do so because it would significantly strengthen and achieve a better exchange of information on a weekly basis, as well as difficulties in the common period They'd get better rid of each other. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165017	I would like to thank my colleague Skoric. We have a replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165018	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Škorići, the economic belt is a sensitive issue in Croatia and by bringing ZERP in that little I would say mixed cards, so you mentioned the coast guard so I ask you what kind of jurisdiction it has and what if Italian fishermen hunt fish what rights they have and what do they do in that case? Of course our fishermen are unhappy with certain things, I understand that we have entered Europe and that we have to respect some European norms and European laws, but I would say that this should be a little clearer, even for fishermen and others who have an interest in the Croatian sea, and the Italians have better fleets than we do, and how should all this be protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165019	Thank you. A colleague of Škorić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165020	I pointed out in my address that the role of coast guard in ZERP remains unchanged that the emphasis will be on the implementation and jurisdiction of scientific research, protection of the sea from pollution, sea fisheries control, etc. So it's now on the regulations of a series of state bodies to define. In any case, based on the proposed amendments to the law, we will get better uniform planning and coordination of joint actions at sea, we will have more efficient and efficient human and material resources, we will have better information networking and faster transmission of information and reporting, we will have more effective and faster performance of operational inspections at sea and more active cooperation in the field of joint surveillance and protection activities in the exercise of jurisdiction at sea with other bodies and organisations that have not been included in the Coast Guard Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165021	Thank you for your response. Next debate, respected counterpart Ante Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165022	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Department of Defense, colleagues and colleagues. This is after the Coast Guard Act was passed in 2007 and after 12 years of application, there was a need for a new law to help further develop the Coast Guard, increase coast guard efficiency and further develop its potential. I am sorry that there are no colleagues of Bulja because here it clearly writes in the light of this law, which is in fact the task of the Coast Guard and literally writes "The primary task of the Coast Guard is to monitor and protect the sovereignty of rights and interests and to exercise the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia in a protected ecological and fishing belt and open sea. In the territorial sea and inland sea waters of the Republic of Croatia, the Coast Guard shall provide support to the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies in the control and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia." Kolega Škorić spoke of the necessary synergy of the relevant resolutions, of cooperation at sea and of the competencies that these resolutions have in the implementation and protection of safety and surveillance of navigation at sea. It is logical to further educate people for such a thing, train them to acquire the necessary knowledge, and the law stipulates that in cooperation with other state bodies they can control vessels, people and goods. Because not everyone is well-intentioned who crosses our sea line. There are also those who certainly want to avoid attention and port captains and sea police and coast guards. So their goal is to get to shore as soon as possible for ships that are unfortunately more modern and faster than our fleet and then to distribute cigarettes, alcohol, and drugs. It is therefore important and good for the Coast Guard to rely on the Croatian Navy, which can respond with its potential to these challenges in the hope of getting more resources so that the Croatian Navy is better equipped in technical and technological terms with radar radio communication devices so as to be able to monitor transport in our sea as best possible. The defence ministry's engagement seems unquestionable to me in strengthening our armed forces because the Croatian Navy is an important component of the Croatian Armed Forces or Croatian Army, so I hope that there will be an improvement in these technical and technological conditions as soon as possible. The sea and seabeds and seabeds are important for Croatia's economic development and it is therefore very important to create opportunities for better supervision of this area. I'm reading the other day about how those involved in drug trafficking have submarines, imagine how technologically they've made technical progress. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State to exert all strength because the sea is our wealth used for different purposes, contributes to the development of the Republic of Croatia and therefore it is important to protect and protect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165023	Thank you. We have a replica of a esteemed colleague, Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165024	Dear Chairman, I know you won't like the sea replica, but it is my duty to warn you that the government and trade union agreement in education has failed and that tomorrow is a strike in schools, so I call on this government to agree to an agreement and compromise and to stop rejecting the demands of professors and teachers who can't achieve their normal existence due to underpaid wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165025	Comrade Pernar, this is not a replica, please replicate your colleagues if you have a replicate, not abuse the Institute of Replications.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165026	Dear Chairman, I am aware that I have misused the replica but I did not know in what other way to point out, since this is not the topic of the agenda, nor will there ever be a topic of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165027	Thank you very much. Based on Article 239, I give you a warning. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165028	The respected chairman, state secretary, colleagues, colleagues, the Croatian Coast Guard is an important element of national security and should be well equipped and trained. However, the way the MORH has joined coast guard equipment is talking about the failed security but also the economic policy implemented by this government. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia signed a contract with the ship's owner Tomislav Debeljak to build five coastal coast guard ships. Because of Mr. Fatty's incompetence and incompetence, there have been huge delays in the construction of the first ship. Due to the ship's delay of about 200 days, the MORH has charged the boat's 15 million kuna foams, realistically these are official numbers for 200 days, it's real about 800 days late for that ship, and the foames for that ship should be much, much larger, even the DORH i.e. Moreh greatly relieved that punishment given by those foams. We can only assume that the state knows for sure which times subsidized the Debeljakov schlamperaj and his incompetence. Mr. Secretary-General, you've said several times in the debates today that Moreh ordered five ships, only one was built, what happened to the other four ships, those four ships, according to this plan of yours from the Moreh, will only be built in 20 years' time most likely as it started. I wonder what happened to them. Are they even in construction? I'd like to ask you an answer to that. Otherwise, experienced shipbuilders point out that it is time for one such ship to be built for 200 days. In addition to the ship being delayed, it does not meet NATO standards, so it does not reach enough speed, it does not reach enough knots. Let's just say something more detailed about that ship. Namely, the ship was reportedly installed into the ship, supposedly a Laddered Engine, for which there was not enough room on the stern and was therefore redesigned in a way that all had retreated towards the midships to make that space on the stern. That's why the equipment's left, so in the middle, that's why the ship's longer. The longer the ship is, the harder it is, and the harder it is, the deeper the gauze and the slower it is. The original draft for the ship was made by the Broding Institute and now Mr. Debeljak is suing the Broding Institute for damage caused by its recasting these same drafts. Unfortunately, there are no more people, no more competent people who could create blueprints for those ships, they went, in a way that these ships continue to function, that they were built from quality materials and of course they were built in time. Under Mr. Debeljak, the shipyard has turned into a Babylon of mugging, cheating on subsidies, media spins, violations of laws and withdrawals of money. The withdrawal of money may be to those people who put that shipyard in Mr. Fatty's hands. We of the Living Wall have already reported the entire team to the State Attorney's Office, and I must remind you that the ship is not a matchbox so it can be hidden. Finally, here we see a double threat to the security of the state. The first is that we don't have functional ships, and the second is that we don't even have a shipyard that could make those ships. Please tell State Secretary Mr Krstičević that he personally endangered national security by getting into business with people who don't build ships, just pulling out money, breaking laws and laughing all over the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165029	Thank you. We have a replica of a esteemed colleague, Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165030	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, you have stated here that the deputy prime minister or defence minister has compromised national security. I really don't know if you've been following the work of the government, the work of the Ministry of Defence, the personal defence minister, the Croatian Army has never stood so well since the Homeland War, never so many quality ideas, solutions to military standards, in terms of equipment, weapons, exercise and training. Never so many Croatian soldiers on peacekeeping missions where they only get the highest praise and grades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165031	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165032	Gentlemen of the HDZ, you are now just throwing away some floscules, the reality in Croatia is that it has never been worse and worse, not only about the military, not about the population, never living worse, there has never been a worse situation in the Republic of Croatia, and you are normal in HDZ to cover up crime, that is. You participate in this crime itself, you encourage, you hold a ladder of such petty hens that, in fact, this is even Mr. Fattyk can't even be called small because he makes hundreds of millions, I've been saying those 650 million he's got a grant for never built ships, i.e. for this new starship Polar Express. These five coast guard ships are just cream on all of it. I'm just wondering when these four ships will be built for you if Mr. Fatty was behind 800 days with this first ship, so that's over 2.5. Which he's late for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165033	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165034	I thank Mr. Vice President, I welcome the Honorable Secretary of State with my associates, and here I also join colleagues who have expressed their gratitude to this law and surely that a series of good solutions has been improved, will be promoted to the work of the Coast Guard, which is very important because the Coast Guard has proved to be a service, an important service that can certainly contribute to the overall safety and protection of both our coastal and sea parts. I report here with a proposal for several promotions, namely, on behalf of the Croatian Fire Community, I think you should appreciate the work or activities that the Croatian Fire Community or the Croatian Fire Department has, you know, is one of the problems and the quenching of fire at sea, that it is unfortunately one of the activities that is not well developed on that sea part because we have no quality ships, we do not have large ships, both in the quenching of fires, so especially in these environmental pollutions, so I think that the law could also prevent and this part of the activities that the Croatian Fire Department is doing, or Croatian fire department, and as you are. 5. already provided for in Article 11. suppressing and removing the security risks of importance for national security, I certainly believe that the fires, which is clear in the Homeland Security Strategy, have found their place and also in the Homeland Security Act, so I think it would be good to have, in fact, been in the article. 8. already put, in Art. 8th century 3. that the Coast Guard may use the funds of other state administration bodies in accordance with contracted contracts in those bodies, means that coast guard could be used, or could be used jointly, as the HV helps fire in large fire situations, so firepower can be put in place to cooperate with coast guard forces, and especially in the case of fires of vessels, especially large vessels on the high seas outside this coastal zone, it would certainly be useful to use and equipment, meaning ships, primarily large ships that it has, the coastal guard that will still have tomorrow, because the Republic of Croatia is a small country and does not need to waste capacity and obtain that everyone has equipment that would not be absolutely usable, so that I see through this law the possibility of joint work of the Coast Guard and the Croatian Fire Community, so in this sense it would be good that in Article. The 11th century 3., along with this, puts the Croatian Fire Department, which is now the Central State Fire Department since 1.1, and also in Art. 3. to put the chief fire commander along with the chief state inspector because I think it is in the preparation of all activities, especially those concerning normal fire protection would be important both experience and knowledge, and especially the community and tomorrow making standard operating procedures that you have foreseen here to work together, that one side does not work one side, the other side, to be under the hat as... Homeland security had a unique body and a unique coordination. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also in Art. 14. I think it would be good for a representative of the Croatian Fire Department to be there, along with all these bodies that are here in the professional body, as well as in Article 14. 18. where, in the area units of coordination, also with members of the regional coordination unit, a representative of the Croatian Fire Department would be inserted, and in fact he would be a representative of fire, county fire communities in areas where these coordinations work and operate. Here, I think this could be acceptable, and also useful for working and coordinating and a unique system of homeland security to only gain strength and role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165035	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165036	Who can only. Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sanader, I absolutely agree that the law until the second reading should definitely include Croatia's fire department as a component and civilian coast guard assistance, but you mentioned just ecological disasters at sea and we know that the nearest ship that can solve such cases in Trieste and that the activity of it is when we count for hours, when we get to our island or place of disaster is too large and it might be good if only the Ministry of Coast Guard would get such a boat for environmental disasters, but I know that the initiative was Dalmatian Countys to maybe buy one such ship together, so I don't know if you have any knowledge of how far we've come with it, so if we get from our Dalmatian counties, it might be possible to be used right through the Croatian Fire Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165037	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165038	... Vice President. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Here's a respected colleague of Bačić, I agree with you, there is an initiative, but while the initiative is being realized we already have ships of coast guard that are suitable and can be implemented and they, they already have signed contracts with the Ministry of the Sea for assistance in such situations. We have as counties coastal, three coastal counties, 4 actually, meaning the Sibenik, Split and Dubrovnik have ships that the ministry has given but these are small ships up to 13 m, they intervene on this inner sea, but this for the open sea and for larger actions can be useful and already these existing Coast Guard ships as well as the Navy and this initiative does not overlap because it manages to obtain this ship and break up, or with this contract that we have with the world organisation, then it will be useful and to benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165039	The last replica is the respected representative of Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165040	Thank you very much. Here is a colleague Sanader mentioned the fire department as a segment that can be included in the Coast Guard, in coordination, I would mention Article 29, which is a mole, which says that the Coast Guard, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, for finances, as well as other bodies responsible for the supervision and protection of the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea, is obliged to exchange information related to the supervision and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea. I would add that, therefore, would delete this because the exchange of information would suggest an article to include information between the authorities responsible for monitoring and protecting the rights of interest of the Republic of Croatia at sea to be implemented by the standard operational procedures of central coordination so that this article should also be completed and co-ordinated with all other services in this way, and thus, in practice, that the intensity of this law is to seek to reduce capacity duplication to protect the rights of interest at sea in the closing of fires and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165041	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed member of Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165042	Okay, I didn't get it. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, it is stated that other bodies in charge of protection will be coordinated and should be seen with the promoter exactly what he thought and how he thought but mainly, standard operational procedures must resolve all these cooperations in order to avoid duplication and agree with his colleague, Škorić, in order to make sure that there is no duplication and that one service does one job, the other, and both of them in the same jobs. But I think through the Homeland Security cap that it will not be done and that all these standards of operational procedures will be clearly defined by jurisdiction and activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165043	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives, and, excuse me, will finally speak on behalf of the promoter, the respected Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165044	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, imported parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here I would first of all like to thank all those who participated in the debate on the Coast Guard Act and in particular I would like to thank those representatives who really discussed the Coast Guard Act. I would also like to thank those MPs who gave thanks in the sense that the law is well prepared and, in essence, from the debate, it is evident that the big objections were not made to the provisions and laws and I can say that by the second reading we will, of course, consider all the remarks that the elected MPs have made for which there is justification and will naturally be included in the Final Proposal of the Coast Guard Act. What I mean here after all these discussions is that I should especially point out is the fact that the trend of further investment in the modernisation of the Coast Guard will continue so that it can actually do the job for which it is established. First of all, I think of coastal patrol ships as a key element of the entire system for successful performance of work because without, of course, tools there is no trade. And I have to answer some of the things that the MPs asked and asked the question and said through certain claims, so that trend simply simply i.e. investment in further modernisation continues, the prototype of the ship has been delivered, he has satisfied all the tactical-technical features that we have sought in the competition, so there is no reason not to order the second or first yes, thus, the ship from the series since the prototype as I said, satisfied all the tactical-technical requirements we have set in the competition. Mr. Vucelic, if you're talking about some things, it would be good to inform yourself first of what the situation is about these things, you need to know that this process of ordering coastal patrol ships was started in the government of the SDP. So, Minister Kotromanovic was then a person in charge, right, to run the whole job, to sign a contract that he did and there is no doubt, should be commended, this insistence of the SDP government to move towards a serious modernisation of the Coast Guard, however, it is necessary to know that there is no exclusive responsibility for the delay in the delivery of prototypes only on Brodosplit as a ship-making company but you must also know that the documentation for the construction of the ship was not complete at all, that I did not say that the main implementation project was missing. And it's understandable that there was a delay in delivering the prototype ship. When such jobs are done, right, you always order a prototype first, so if the prototype meets the required conditions, then it's ordered ships from the series. Since the prototype of the ship meets all tactical and technical requirements, it will, of course, go into contract construction and the following series ships so that this key condition is met that the Coast Guard can successfully do its job. So, in conclusion, we will consider all the remarks that have been made during the debate in the Coast Guard Act on what is justified to enter into the final draft law and I hope that you, this House of Commons, will support such a bill, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165045	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative Damjan Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165046	Mr. Secretary-General, what you just said is only floscule. My generation has been listening to them for 20 years, that it's someone else's fault, that they're red, that they're wrong left or that they're third. We've had enough of that already. I am very well aware of the problem and what you have now said that the ship meets all the required specifications and requirements, it is simply not true. Well, gentlemen, it doesn't satisfy one basic requirement, which is that it has enough speed, that ship is too slow, it doesn't meet NATO standards, sir, and you can't tell me that it meets all the specifications when it doesn't meet the basic one, it's too slow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165047	The answer of a respected secretary of state. It's not the secretary of state, it's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165048	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As far as you're aware, the best way to address me is to call me "the secretary general". I'm not the secretary of state, I'm the secretary of state, right? The other thing is, you can't call Mr. Krstičević something he's really not responsible for. He neither signed a contract nor ordered a ship, only now that a prototype has been delivered and since he has met all tactical and technical requirements, Mr Krsticevic can order the next ship. And the third thing, you know, doesn't say what speed the ship should have anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165049	Thank you very much. So I'm going to conclude a debate on this point and we're going to vote on it when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165050	Proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 755, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 78 "for" and 41 "abstained" have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165051	We move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on the Processing of biometric data, first reading, P.Z. No. 756 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165052	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament, I warmly welcome you all. You are therefore facing a law that speaks of interoperability of the databases, which is currently the EU's strongest security initiative, thus strengthening the exchange of data through interoperability of information systems and databases with biometric data, and this fully coincides with the operational and strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. Information management in the EU and in the Republic of Croatia can and must be more effective and effective with a view to fully respecting fundamental rights, including in particular the right to the protection of personal data, in order to combat crime, to strengthen internal security in favour of all citizens in order to better protect borders, better management of migration flows and other important security issues. What is the basic idea of this law? The purpose of interoperability is to connect all available information systems and databases both in the EU and in the Republic of Croatia in a way that will enable simultaneous data collection from all systems. What exactly is biometric data? So these are the physical characteristics of the person who enables the unique identification of the person, such as the fingerprints of the papal lines of the fingers, palms, feet, facial images, the profile of the DNA and the iris of the eye, however, the basic biometric data on which the interoperability of the papal lines of fingers is based. Simply saying, interoperability will result in any person who is subject to treatment, for example. in the case of border control, when issuing personal documents, criminal research, visas, applications for international protection or any other person, place a finger on the reader who reads the fingerprints of that person and automatically checks them through all available information systems and databases and, therefore, not only one that is currently being carried out. Therefore, if an asylum search is carried out, it is not only through the EURODAC system but also through the visa system to see if this person may have requested a visa when entering, it may be possible through the passenger entry and exit system, to see where it is and from which way and from which country it entered in this case or entered illegally. Why all this is important for the Republic of Croatia and it is especially important for our entry into the Schengen area. First of all, there are strategic interests, namely two interoperability regulations were adopted at EU level in June of this year, these are Regulations. 817/2019 and 818/2019, which provide a legal framework for the integration of major European systems, were existing such as the Schengen Information System or the Visa Information System or the European dactyloscopic data system of migrants and asylum seekers, this EURODAC, which I mentioned earlier and those major future systems that are at certain stages of the foundation of production, are a European information system for third-country nationals and persons without citizenship, a system of entry-exiting European Travel Information System and their approval and other systems. Member States are expected to design and implement their national solutions in the coming period and connect their respective systems to those European systems. As a Member State with the longest external land border with a direct strategic goal of achieving full membership in Schengen, the Republic of Croatia has identified the issue of interoperability as one of the priorities of the EU presidency in the first half of 2020 and has made progress among the leading Member States in achieving interoperability of national and European systems. There are then other than these strategic ones that I have said and operational interests. In particular, interoperability will significantly contribute to strengthening security in the Republic of Croatia and in the Schengen area, as it will primarily ensure that competent authorities have fast, consistent, systematic and controlled access to the information they need to carry out their tasks, will provide a solution to identify multiple identities with a two purpose of ensuring the correct identification of persons and the prevention of identity fraud, will facilitate the verification of the identity of third-country nationals who do not have personal IDs and will ultimately simplify access by competent authorities to information systems at the level of the Republic of Croatia and the EU in order to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute serious criminal offences and acts of terrorism. More specifically, interoperability will significantly facilitate or fully address the following problems: it will protect Croatian citizens from abuse of identity, identify illegal migrants without IDs, then identify foreigners without personal IDs in criminal investigations related to foreign nationals, check of earlier registration of foreign nationals in one of the systems, do not have a national database with biometric data of applicants for international protection or asylum equivalent to the current EURODAC, the absence of a national database with biometric data of foreigners treated under the Foreigners Act if there are certain measures, for example to leave the country, obtain fingerprints for the purposes of identification and demand activities on the MUP information system, obtaining fingerprints for the purposes of identification and demand activities in the Schengen Information System and via Interpol. There is also a preparation for the introduction of checks on the basis of biometric data in border control at the EU's external borders and interoperability will allow automatic checks of certain traces from the crime scene. In order to achieve all of this, a full analysis of the legal and sub-legislative regulations governing the use of biometric data and their use and storage has been carried out. Therefore, the Law on Criminal Procedures, the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, the Law on Foreigners, the Law on Temporary International Protection, the Law on the ID card, the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, and the rules adopted under these laws have been analysed. In order for the processing of biometric data to take place in a transparent manner and in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes a single regulation that unites the provisions of relevant domestic laws and European regulations, this is the law which is before you, therefore, the proposal for a law on the processing of biometric data. The preparation of this text includes various resolutions such as the Ministry of Personal Data Protection and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs for the sake of the Croatian Visa Information System, above all, and the Ministry of Justice. The entry into force of this law as well as your support and assistance, is planned by the end of this year. In order to ensure that all this law is implemented in practice, a full analysis of business processes related to biometric data is made based on user requirements and different technical solutions are designed. So, you go right now and work parallelly on the implementation of this law when it comes into force. Here are the basics of the law before you. Thank you very much for your attention and we are open to your suggestions and comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165053	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. We are moving on to representatives' clubs and will be the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165054	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Law on the processing of biometric data, the modern biometric identification is based on the identification of certain biometric features and the comparison with the stored sample in the data form within the database of a particular system. The biometric data are physical characteristics of a person who enables unique identification of such persons as fingerprints of papal lines of fingers, palms and feet, then photos of facial images, profile of DNA and iris of the eye. Currently, the EU's strongest security initiative is to strengthen data exchange through the interoperability of the information system and the biometric database. The most important reason for such an initiative is unfortunately an increasing number of illegal border crossings, and thus the increasing risk of terrorism in EU countries. In recent years, Europe has had to respond to the greatest migration wave since World War II. Over 2.3 million illegal crossings were recorded only during 2015 and 2016 alone. In 2018, the total number of illegal border crossings fell to around 150,000, and in the first half of 2019 nearly 30,000 people risked their lives traveling to Europe by sea, and they are afraid that over 600 drowned, and 11,16,000 people came to Europe last year. Following this, information management in the EU and the Republic of Croatia can and must be more effective and effective with full respect for fundamental rights, including the special right to the protection of personal data, and this is what has been best prepared for better border protection, better migration management, in order to combat crime and strengthen internal security for the benefit of all citizens. As the Member State with the longest external border, which is the direct strategic goal of achieving full membership in Schengen, the Republic of Croatia has just identified the issue of interoperability as one of the priorities of the EU presidency and aims to ensure a better integration of the information systems of the Republic of Croatia and the EU. This proposal for the Biometric Data Act provides for the conditions for the processing of biometric data and for the information systems of the Republic of Croatia as well as related EU information systems. Interoperability will significantly contribute to strengthening security in the Republic of Croatia and in the Schengen area, i.e. to ensure a solution to combat identity-related fraud. Of course, it will make it easier for police officers to verify the identity of third-country nationals in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It will facilitate and simplify access by competent authorities to information systems at the level of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, all in order to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute serious criminal offences, in particular terrorism. Interoperability of the Republic of Croatia information systems and their intra-operability with EU information systems is planned to be achieved through a common technical solution for automated comparison of biometric data, and in accordance with the specific rules of the Republic of Croatia as well as applicable EU rules. In the Republic of Croatia there are currently 3 databases of biometric data, namely the information system of the MUP, the Croatian visual information system and the prison information system. The existing EU operating systems are the Schengen Information System, the Eurodac system and the visual information system with which interoperability would be achieved. After starting with work interoperability will be achieved with the system of entry, exit, the European Travel Information System and their approval and the European Information System of Criminal Records for third-country nationals. It is important to point out that the bill, in accordance with all applicable rules relating to the protection of personal data, attaches particular importance to the protection of natural persons against the abuse of their personal data. The protection and confidentiality of personal data is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU and the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support this Proposal for a Bill on Biometric Data Processing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165055	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of whom he was to speak the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU and Independent Representatives and SNAGE, the Honored Representative Marko Vučetic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165056	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues of this law have already been told everything because the law is so clear that this assembly is just about to be accepted. However, I have responded because of being present and giving an example of a positive nepotism and why this nepotism is positive, because it is transcultural and trans-temporal, I speak exclusively because there was one Ivan Vučetic and this Ivan Vučetic is responsible for what is happening today and for what is partly and contained in this law. It's the father of dactyloscopy. So you keep in mind that from the genus Vučetić just because I say we are not at the same time, we are not in the same culture I agreed to warn the public of this form of positive nepotism, and the positive nepotism of birth and the positive social consequences in this case is that the rate of crime is reduced and that the safety of citizens is strengthened. This law is also a law that comes from the area of the fourth industrial revolution, and we are at the social level of pre-modernity. To speak in the Croatian Parliament today, especially if we take into account some of the topics presented this morning from the free speech or the presentation of the position of parliamentary representatives, the clubs of parliamentary representatives are clear that some of these topics are from the period of pre-modernity, is pre-modern in which religion is almost expected to achieve freedom of the nation and of the national. That absolutely can never happen because every religion has limits. The problem of Croatian society is that Croatian society did not have a country to address the national issue, so the national issue was trying to solve itself through some alternative forms, one of these alternative forms was the religion that is still present today, a form of social and political pathology that leads us to a lack of understanding of what we are now in. Although many are not conscious of today’s society, at the level of the consciousness of today’s society, we cannot be disfellowshipped from the legality and even from the dangers of the present society. The current society is a society where terrorism and the danger of terrorism grow. This law and the laws that will come from this area are, they intend to give Croatian citizens security and to protect them from endangering them. The terrorism that took place in all the times so far was terrorism that didn't threaten the whole world so much, it was terrorism that was carried out through the poor. Today's terrorism is terrorism that can destroy the world without words. It's not just that we're exposed to nuclear wars, bacteriological, biotechnology and any other dangers, but it's that it's possible that the whole world disappears at some point. However, this moment does not come suddenly, this moment also comes through identity theft. If someone steals someone's identity or forms another identity, they are able to live in a country in an undetectable way. Someone who lives among us based on their false identity and some others for the society of destructive intentions is able to destroy and cause damage to that society, it's something in literature called hyper reality or strengthening reality, enhanced reality destroys your system. If you want an example of how the system is destroyed, I'll give it to you. They destroy the system and destroy the truth about the homeland war. Why? Because they paid for this reality with something. And why they need to strengthen reality with something else that's been going on for decades to make some difference. Why did they achieve that benefit? So because they themselves do not belong to the truth and reality of the homeland war, they belong to the truth and reality of hyper reality or strengthened reality. They've taken over some other identity themselves, they don't need to process some new biometrics, but they've agreed to an identity themselves, they're not as dangerous as those who take over other people's identities and who we need to be careful with. In Croatian society, when we are talking about those who strengthen reality and create hyperreality, for example, it is all those who are alive today, living marriages or Yugoslavia or something like that. Almost 30 years. After Yugoslavia, the one who lives in Yugoslavia, I won't say he has a psychiatric problem, he has that, but he has a major problem with hyperreality, and that hyperreality is where his psyche comes in, it's mental terrorism. Someone who truly believes in Croatian society today that marriage works, and that he is in the service of resistance to such one force, is a hyperreality, mental terrorism, and this mental terrorism has started with that person and led to the car destruction of that person, we can again observe that person from the level of missed identity to live in the present reality. Why am I saying this? Not because, as often happens, I have a time to fill because many repeat the same stories for this speaker over and over again, just to warn that the current law will not cause many debates. Why won't he cause a debate? Well, it's because it belongs to reality from the present world, and most of the debates, 2/3 at least, belong here to the reality of hyper reality or to a strengthened reality in which the constant carryers of hyperreality are suffocating in their own non-essentialness, and that they are not aware of it. In this 3rd year. I've already said that once, if I'm watching some MPs look like the first day and what your mental structure was on the first day, and if I'm watching them now, it's about them becoming a parody of their first day, they've lost that identity. Is it a shame or not, I don't know, I don't care too much, but I care that we finally become a society that lives in modernity, a society that is in the same time as Germany, Spain or America, and the society of present modernity is a society that is threatened by the danger of stealing identity, but is also threatened by the danger that we cannot live in our own freedoms and, normally, that there is an information system at EU level and even at the level of the entire free world that will process this information that is not part of my identity, these are personal data about some of my characteristics, that the state can recognize me as that authentic or unauthentician citizen or one who is false or who is true. I'm still trying to narrow down all these conspiracy theories that such information systems are disrupting our privacy, not it's not disrupting itself, but it's enabling itself. If we don't have these laws, unless we have systems like this and we don't have these activities, we can't be free citizens in the current free world is freedom to be possible, it has to be defined somehow. The current definition of freedom also involves accepting a form of collective rationality. There is a constant conflict between our individual and collective rationality, on an individual level I would be happy almost to meet no one, to live in my own peace and that no one has any information about me, but from the level of collective rationality I would know that at that level of the beast, that I am threatened, that I am exposed to another's strength, because of collective rationality, because of collective rationality we have a state. If the state does not have collective rationality, if it does not implement laws at this collective level that will convince us that someone needs to care and take care of us and such laws that contain and process biometric data, if such a state does not exist, it exists as an illusion or as a hyperreality. Because I see this law as a law that interrupts and resists hyperreality, which is aimed at protecting Croatian citizens from the dangers they are now threatening, and not only at the dangers arising from migration and what is happening within the Republic of Croatia but primarily at the terrorism that can stifle and shut down this world without words, I support this law and expect that all members of my club will do the same. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165057	Thank you very much. We move on to an individual debate, and the first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165058	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on the processing of biometric data is important as another tool to fight terrorism, organised crime and illegal migration more effectively, to search for missing persons, to identify post-mortem remains, but also to protect natural persons from the abuse of their personal data or to prevent possible identity thefts. The Republic of Croatia has the longest external border of the EU 1,352 km, in order to make it as effective as possible to manage information in the EU as well as in the Republic of Croatia, while respecting fundamental rights for the protection of personal data. One of the EU's fundamental objectives is to create an area without internal borders where people can move freely, live and work knowing that their rights are fully respected and that their security is guaranteed. In order for Member States to be as successful as possible, they must share responsibility and cooperate in the management of common external borders as required by common criteria for external border control, common rules for entering the Schengen area and stronger police cooperation between Member States. The EU's internal security strategy is the basis for Member States' cooperation on security issues. It covers measures aimed at the most serious security threats the EU faces. These measures seek to achieve the following five main strategic objectives, crackdown on criminal and terrorist networks, combating radicalisation and recruitment, protecting citizens, businesses and societies from cybercrime, strengthening the management of common external borders, and improving the EU's readiness and response to crises. Criminal networks work not only at international level but are often also mixed in various forms of criminal activity such as trafficking in human beings, drugs or weapons, money laundering or counterfeiting. To successfully combat criminal networks, the EU aims at what they care about most, which is financial gain. In this context, it helps Member States to fight more successfully against money laundering, corruption and counterfeiting and to be effective in confiscation of property acquired by criminal actions. In the Republic of Croatia, every natural person has the right to the protection of personal data. Personal data include e.g. address, phone number, email address, personal photo, OIB, biometric data, education and professional storage data, payment data, credit debt, bank accounts data and specific categories of personal data. sensitive data, and they are racial or ethnic origin, political views, religious or other beliefs, union membership, health or sex life, personal data on criminal and criminal proceedings and the like. In order to ensure the protection of natural persons against the abuse of their personal data, or to prevent identity theft, and to enable authorities in charge of the fight against terrorism, organised crime and illegal migration, this law should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165059	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said that there is a connection between the Republic of Croatia and the EU, and that there is a exchange of information from individual EU countries. Now I'm interested in you also talking about personal data, wondering if this kind of insight into information systems from one country to another is even more endangered personal data from us individuals, and whether such systems will make it easier to steal or replace identities? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165061	The answer of the esteemed Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165062	So, counterpart Križanić, Europe rests on solidarity, co-operation and trust. You never have 100% safety anywhere, never anywhere, so among other things, now that we're not sharing our data with anyone or just the basis of individual demands, identity theft occurs. Well, among other things, a few months ago, we had a chance to read in the paper that fellow MPs had stolen identity or OIB from those lists where they were running, they found out from the papers. So the question arises, let's say, what is our SOA doing on the protection of state officials because parliamentary deputies are state officials to let the press know that their identity has been stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165063	The next replica of the respected representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165064	I thank my colleague, this speech of yours shows that you insisted on it although you did not say with a saying that this law and this topic put us in an equal position with all other EU members, this is indeed the case. These topics and these legal solutions show this distance from colonial consciousness, today no one is establishing colonies, but today it is possible to establish security and uncertainty. Whoever has information today, who has a position, who is able to establish a form of trade or exchange of information, he is also able to achieve a partnership today. I believe that this act not only strengthens the security of our citizens, but also confirms our importance in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165065	The answer of the esteemed Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165066	Thank you. Comrade Vučetić, you are absolutely right, we are a full member of the EU, and it is up to us alone how ready we are and how much we will benefit from these most prestigious integrations of today, which are certainly both the EU and NATO, it depends not on anyone else, but only on us as state and our citizens, or on the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165067	Next individual debate of the respected representative Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As already stated in the explanation, this law has its logic and justification in its objectives as protection against illegal migration, international crimes and terrorism and detection of identity-related fraud. However, I would like to highlight a few things here, so I want to do some things again. First, information systems in, dealing with biometric data in the Republic of Croatia are the following, the information system of the MUP, the Croatian visa information system and the prison information system. Accordingly, so far, the partners in the EU are systems that want to connect, talk about interoperability, these are the Schengen Information System, the Eurorock and Visa Information System, so this is parallel to what is now there. However, it would point out that the intention of expanding the use of these biometric data and on the system of entry, exiting to the EU will be one huge number, the number of data on the European Travel Information System, which further increases that amount of data, the European Information System, the criminal records of third countries, countries, etc. However, when we look at what is a legal background or a framework for controlling the exchange of all this information, then there are in some way quite vague and the contour of this system is when it comes to the Republic, then it is said that it is in accordance with the specific regulations of the Republic of Croatia or with the application of EU rules, and it is said in some places, if the minister will prescribe what these are, these regulations. And when it comes to the EU, it is also about jurisdiction, control in the context of the principles that are welcome, which we can generally have nothing against, but is it hard to be required by law, human rights should be respected, personal data protection should be taken into account, should be in proportion to what is necessary and proportionate between likely personal and national interests, etc. And here, it's also listed what we consider biometric data with what the promoter said is now an emphasis on these fingerprints, what we call popularly, but there are other features that come into it, and therefore legally opens the space that will be from footprints, iris to DNA, DNA profiles. Now, what you should say here is that, in any case, this law should be supported, given that it is something that has its own justification both in its objectives and in what it is intended to achieve and that it should also support Croatian and EU efforts. However, I think it is still necessary to warn of some of the negative consequences that this law can have in the future. It is precisely in this discrepancy that legal norms are always late for technological development and innovation, regardless of whether in this case it is methods and techniques of these identifications or the use or processing of biometric data or information systems that are constantly developing, or their technology and networking of these systems, with which we must be aware that, with exhibits, with this networking, they will increase exponentially and the number of users of biometric data, biometric pardons, biometric data, but they will also increase exponentially the number of possible abuses of these data. The problem with this use or abuse of the use of personal data once you put them on the Internet, and then they can't anymore, so I can't erase that one-time abuse simply stays. Therefore, the question or problem is that we need to develop methods of controlling these biometric data and how they and these systems are used to exchange them. The question is raised not only in this case, but otherwise in the case of the exchange of all such data which, through the Ministry of Interior or other institutions, Croatia exchanges with other EU members, what is the relationship to these data, especially when they have a limited time limit or on the legal side, should be deleted after some time. Let's take these basic behavioral data from someone who is 20 today, so he's a hooligan, so he's acting on some game to get into certain records, whether it's going to be erased in 5, 10 or 15 years, which are legal mechanisms, how can they be used, who can use them, I think it's still a gray zone that it's not, it's not clear, and we don't have mechanisms to check that it's going to behave like we even signed in those agreements. On the other hand, we can also develop this futuristic perception, which will be, when this DNA identification is far more widespread, so how, in some ways, it will be welcome on the one hand to do these police work when it comes to immigrants, illegal immigration that will prove or claim the relatives' ties between members who are this, who are illegally crossing the borders, but will ask the question of what is going to happen to families who are legally acting and will find that these DNA analyses do not match those that declared related relations. Thus, we have a number of reasons to take care of how, how we should treat it. In short, I think that the legislator should, or that we should now make sure that the state orders, that the government orders teams in Croatia from lawyers to sociologists, communicologists, IT experts who will counter these technological changes that will bring, which will follow us, and on the other hand, that will lead to anti-cipe or take care of possible violations that will enable these new technologies. And here I think it is particularly important for us that we have one, I don't know how to say it politely, uncontrollable democracy where the principle of law, transparency and the public goes to the expense and protection of personal data and one constitutional principle of dignity of a man who simply doesn't respect himself or does not lead to the same level as this right of speech or freedom of speech. And in that sense, I think that we should take these measures to make such possible solutions and how they anti-citate and prepare them and that, in advance, we should prevent some of the negative consequences of this law that should be supported in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165069	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Felaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165070	Dear fellow Tudjman fully agrees with your exposure, I would only like to replicate this part where you have repeatedly highlighted the negative consequences of inconsistencies in legal norms and technologies that are constantly one or two steps ahead of the legal norms that we bring to the protection of personal data because it is constantly being run as long as it is necessary to know about people, and how much of this can be misused. And here in the presentation of Mr. Strick and Mr. Križanić's replicas that this was used negatively by a group of criminals who used data as much as I know of parliamentary representatives in order to make their names and their OIBs very easily available to them through public data that are available to all of us state officials, to buy out iron, old iron and pay themselves clearly without tax money. do you think that at this point, we as state officials are too exposed to the public. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165071	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165072	What I am, I think we should look for an answer on this one on this one. Freedom of speech is one principle, man's dignity is another principle, which must also be balanced. What we have, we have in this assembly, so there are MPs who are also accusing you of both convictions and maltenes would like to be the executioner of that. He just can't, he can't exist. The Parliament has broken its reputation precisely because such norms have not been accepted. In England, you have the same bile debates in the British Parliament, but there is no personal insult. We haven't adopted such standards since the assembly, so it's spilling over the media, social networks, and it just can't end well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165073	The next replica is the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165074	Comrade Tudjman, in your debate, you listed possible abuses of personal data, and I also agree with you that technical technological progress is faster than legal norms that should follow him, but one part of the debate is dedicated to DNA identification. I also believe that in the future this very identification will be the most desirable and most desirable among other things not only for border surveillance, for the fight against terrorism and organised groups, but also for the possible identification of victims. For example, September 11th attack on twin towers, 2,763 people died, thousands more days later they dropped out and they found over 10,000 body parts. Of course, today's civilization expects the relatives of all these victims to be identified and their remains buried as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165075	The answer of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165076	Thank you. In any case, this DNA method has already been applied, it has simply revolutionized and ratios of identification from war victims to all others and therefore it is something to support. I believe that these methods will perfect or be faster and easier to identify DNA. But we need to keep in mind what social consequences it will have if you want not in criminal situations or miles but in family relations. I mean, we can imagine what it's going to be like and then what it's like to control that data. Is that if it is not initially predicted how to limit and sanction it, we will simply produce a series of bad consequences with one good idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165077	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165078	Thank you. You spoke about possible abuses, and you set an example if you are investigating and taking DNA samples within the same family, and it is found out from that analysis that they are not really family members. I don't think there's any threat there is that biometric data won't be available to the public. Family members will continue to live in security or imagine that they are still family members. The danger could only arise if someone hacks that system, although it is easy for me to imagine that some of our clerical associations, apparently clerical, are going into hacker activity because it is much more lucrative than defining marriage to find out whether they are descendants or if the offspring have come upon someone else. If I let the irony go, I don't see any other reason why anyone would want to get that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165079	The answer of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165080	Thank you. I will not enter your beliefs, I leave it to you. We're talking abuse here, and that's something that every technology has a black and white side. We've got 19th and 20th centuries of boasting about industrialization, so now 21st we're correcting the mistakes of industrialization and all that it's done. So here we must count on these abuses that will be hoped to be minimal, but we must prevent them before that. You're talking about some kind of civilization level here in your presentation, so why don't we just argue here that human dignity is also a fundamental value so we shouldn't or should not be allowed to be such... dignity of the man and the entire groups here in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165081	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165082	Proposal for a act on the processing of biometric data, first reading, P.Z. No. 756, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on the Processing of biometric data and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 84 "for", 35 "abstained" have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165083	We are now going to the point: - Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2018 and - Report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2018. The applicant shall report to the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency on the basis of Article 33. Law on energy regulation. The government delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear President of the Governing Council of HERA Tomislav Jurekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165084	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am pleased to have the opportunity to try to present to you this year the annual report on the work of HERA and the achievement of its budget. Since a few months ago you had the opportunity to listen to the 2017 report, this is pleasant to be at a shorter interval again in front of you. This time we will have the opportunity to comment on a year that is not so far behind us, and how each of these reports can not always be restricted on January 1st then a good part of the comments will also apply to the current 2019, especially those elements that have been passed and applied in this year. I would like to try to be brief, given that over 160 pages you have ahead of you contain a lot of statistical data, a mass of information that is relatively tiring in itself, some times prehermetic, but by nature such a report, since that plus document on the state of energy in Croatia issued by the Ministry of Environment and Energy represents two basic statistical reviews, then it is difficult to sacrifice some of that scope but I say, therefore, necessary documents lose their integrity. I will try to briefly remind you of the status and role of HERA and the position of regulation of energy activities as such, I will try to give a shorter overview of the situation in Croatia's energy in 2018, especially in the component in which the regulator acts on regulated activities and those on which regulation has repercusions. I will try to look back at the position of customers, future challenges and thus somehow round up 2018 and suggest that you ask questions. In short, HERA is just to remind, the data we know, an independent and independent body with public authority in the Republic of Croatia, it is a pandan and has its partners in 27 other national regulatory agencies in EU Member States. Its core central task is to implement energy regulation and, of course, the basis of the primary legal framework in the Republic of Croatia, but also by relying on the wider EU framework, or on all those obligations that are Fusiond from day to day with national legislation. The basic document under which we do so is on the regulation of energy activity, which after the adoption of 2000, had a point in 2004 which also established today's HERA and was subsequently reconstructed several times, the current version of 2012 with the 2018 amendment, and it in principle aligned the position of regulators fully with the status of regulators in EU countries. The regulation in itself is sometimes a concept that is forgotten over time, which is the essence of it, so let me remind you that the regulation that we're talking about here is the regulation of that energy component that I consider to be a natural monopoly, so let me put it this way, regulation of wires in electricity and pipes in gas, it's the central task of regulation. In addition to this task, HERA also deals with less promotion but increasingly with the implementation of the market component, especially in the wake of the promotion of the internal market, the EU's single internal market, the gas electricity markets. In addition, the third essential backbone is the protection of customers, of course, in the part in which it relates to the competences of HERA, i.e. the regulated energy component. And of course, a series of tasks according to specific regulations that both energy as a very lively and dynamic discipline is developing, and these tasks are starting to become more and more and the future seems to have an additional engagement in that field. This annual report is a manifestation of the important assumptions of the work of regulators that I remind it of, independent and independent body. Therefore, it is separate from the executive authority and acts on the equivalent of the interests of customers, industry interests, or the industry's defence of energy companies and executive authorities. In order to maintain the Equidistance, however, it must have guaranteed independence on the other hand that independence must also be manifested with public responsibility and that the submission of the annual report is the point in which this independence is most directly manifested. Now let me try to give a general assessment in 2018. Generally speaking, what seems to the regulator and to me the general public most important, the energy systems of the Republic of Croatia in 2018 functioned in a stable manner, so we did not have any disturbances or supply to be in normal functioning of the system. On the market itself, there were no unpredictable earthquakes or major changes affecting prices, the truth, the second half of 2018 has brought growth in both electricity and gas markets to Europe, and this trend was relatively rapid in the second half of 2018 in industry categories, and since regulation in households is formed ex-ante, so prices are made in advance, that price hike was felt at 2019. Therefore, in general, during last 2018 industrial prices, especially in the second half of the energy component grew, in the component of regulated activities, meaning distribution of transport, everything that serviced energy, were generally stable or had a certain decline at the end of the year. So, the year in which Croatian energy functioned without earthquakes, in which energy supply was properly serviced and the market manifested certain changes in final energy prices. It is ungrateful in one year in which a whole series of organisations and individuals acted to maintain and achieve this stability of the system, to single out individual events but perhaps in 2018 we will remain in our memory or perhaps remain in our regulators' memory, by several events that might be worth reminding of. First, we changed the full amount of legislation to the Republic of Croatia in 2018, starting with the Law on the gas market and all sublegal acts, as well as all regulatory methodologies. The goal was finally and fully consistent with the EU framework, a series of elements came from the implementation of the so-called "EU Framework". the network of codes, i.e. EU implementing acts, which have regularly become part of national legislation. This is also the part that is implemented directly or indirectly through sublegal acts. This may be one in adopting a regulatory important event in 2018 on the side of electricity with a series of changes because electricity is the objectively most dynamic part of modern energy, especially because of renewable energy. What is important may be the integration of the market for the day-to-day electricity between Croatia and a group of countries participating in the so-called The regional market coupling, it was achieved across the Croatian-Slovenian border, which in practice means that the Croatian electricity market CROPEX operates in synchronous fashion with the Slovenian stock market, which expands the area of trade and liquidity already the national market is more important than it was. Sam Day ahead i.e. connecting the Day ahead market is a venture which was achieved primarily by colleagues from the Croatian Stock Exchange, however, with the support of all other actors and with the modest support of regulators. It came in 2018, from our perspective, from the perspective of regulators to a very important news, namely to say partial changes in practices in determining regulated operator prices. In fact, we thought that after a period of several years in which methodologies are completed in which the tariff system is primarily for transport or transfer but also for distribution has already become a kind of routine, that the time has come to take a closer look at the fact to which the measures are effectively used. So we installed our methodologies and perhaps for the first time started to apply a certain reduction of tariffs in the event that we consider transport and transmission systems inadequately or insufficiently used. We view this as an incentive for operators to be more efficient in the future, or to try to act on their own in the direction of better use of the system. This has led to a certain fall in gas transport prices, and taking into account market circumstances it has also done something similar in the area of electricity transmission and infrastructure which is otherwise very satisfactoryly completed in the Republic of Croatia, we could say that last year has been the creation of a foundation and assumptions for the construction of LNG terminals, which is not irrelevant in the dynamics of ensuring security of gas supply. Generally speaking, just a few sentences about each of these points. The systems in Croatia acted in a stable, operationally reliable way, on a satisfactory built-in infrastructure and in electricity we have a very good cross-border connection which is on the other hand the assumption that the market principle, and I remind you that in Croatia energy rests on market bases, we have a regulated component which is a natural monopoly and will therefore always be regulated, will always be determined, but the energy component that basically makes up the largest part of the price paid by the final buyer is the price exposed to the market. In order for this to work in its fullness, infrastructure must then enable satisfactory dynamic trading across borders because ultimately the market choice gives its real result, giving its optimal price only when it is possible to obtain energy at a given moment from the most favourable and cheapest sources, this is the assumption infrastructure. Regulators shall control or attempt to influence the development of national infrastructure through plans that are submitted to them by operators most often going parallel to audits or tariff definitions. These somewhat shorter or central 10-year plans are exactly the control point in which the regulator checks and can give specific suggestions given future infrastructure development. We will not say that over the past 10 to 20 years, some of the construction of transmission and transport infrastructure has not been somewhat ambitious, so today we have a relatively expensive gas transport system, but this is the starting point where, as I said earlier, insisting on the efficiency of use, on the other hand trying to rationalise future plans, we have a space of action. The point that perhaps when we talk about stability is worth touching is a dilemma that actually shouldn't be, but by nature things are relatively sensitive, and these are always comparisons of domestic and import energy. So, of course it is necessary and it is also one of the principles of strategic energy, and so regulation has adequate sources, especially in the electricity component. However, the adequateness of national sources should be balanced with the market component. Therefore, to assess, and this is particularly done in the strategies of building electricity facilities, to assess the adequateness of national, national production potential, on the other hand to enable cross-border trade. In this balance, what we need for security, and what we have access to for the most efficient, cheapest prices and lies actually art and energy management and in one small part regulation. I'm not gonna bother you with the numbers on the demand offer, it's something I've done in years ago and it usually took 15 minutes, so I'm gonna keep myself out of it this time. However, I can say that the balance of electricity in Croatia has had one slight growth, which in the last year had about 1% of the increase again. Our balance went up to about 18.3 terawatt hours of which 16.4 were directly spent. We have installed forces around 5,010 Megawatts at the end of 2018 in which renewable sources regularly, sources financed by the incentive system are somewhere at 830 Megavat. So 5,830, the share that has continued to grow in 2018 seems to me to be that the number of the installed power, the energy from renewable sources, has been given some elto some increase from 70 to 80 megawatts. It is equally noticeable that, in the practice of the electricity system, there is a growing connection to distributed elements or distributed systems of small production units beginning to exist increasingly, they are regularly connected at distribution levels, which is a phenomenon of course to be taken into account during the coming period. When I talk about gas, the situation is not exactly the same, so this mild but continuous increase in electricity in consumption is something that we can expect in the years to come, gas on the other hand is always subsistent to climate change this but annual climate change, to colder or warmer winter, however, as fossil fuels are not a place where more serious expansion is expected in the future and what happened in 2018, and this is a decline in gas consumption by about 7-8%, is not something that could be attributed exclusively to a warmer winter, it is a trend affecting both energy efficiency measures and a general orientation that comes from a major expansion of fossil fuels. So the gas system in this sense recorded a kind of decline, while electricity has one continuous increase. As prices seemed, it is not for the regulator to comment too much on prices, but can be considered the fact that, and I remind you again, each final price consists of a component of energy that is, in principle, marketable, of a component of the regulated part, these are distributions and transports, of fees and of course, of VAT. By commenting on the regulated components, we can say that in 2018 they were stable, and at the end of the year, due to the revisions of the transport or transmission system, they had a certain decline. Generally speaking, energy prices in the Republic of Croatia are at European average level, while households are still slightly lower. This difference between the European average and the Croatian prices, is particularly pronounced in gas where it still survives the classical form of public service gas supply, so there is something that and where the regulator is still operating in the field of energy, I repeat, only public gas supply service for households. As regards other energy prices, I commented on the situation on the market, after a few years of continuous price decline in 2018, in particular in the second half, she saw counter trends, the collection of electricity, and even a certain accumulation of gas, even in the atypical part of the season, in particular in the third quarter. Not all such processes, not all such events are always predictable, but with certain oscillations on the market must be accounted for. What should be borne in mind is that the market gives its result for a longer period, the market is therefore the intersection of offers and demand which, if there are no anomalies, should, within a longer period, give that optimal price and create a permanent pressure through competition. As Croatia's energy markets are developed, and here I will focus primarily on the part that is the internal market, it means electricity and gas. The wholesale markets are well developed, the truth in the field of electricity, the wholesale market is dominated by HEP, which is there between 80 and 90% depending on which statistics and as you can see, the gas side has a different situation, there are several larger players, from the situation from 10.g. when INA dominated that market or when competition practically was not, there is competition on the wholesale market in the Republic of Croatia, dynamics are here, both systems, and especially gas systems are equipped today with adequate mechanisms, platforms on which trading can take place in several ways, on the gas side, for example, it is a virtual point of trade, these are trading platforms, so wholesalers are allowed to operate in the Republic in a way comparable to the European market, dynamics of that market, growth... and some other indicators are not fully adequate there yet, but let's say that the wholesale market is in a direction that can be considered satisfactory. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The retail market in the Republic of Croatia if we look at it as a component of the right to change the supplier, which is what every energy buyer actually feels in the retail market, it is to use its right to choose within the competition the one he thinks will offer him the best service or give him the best price, the retail market is realistically stagnating the second year in a row, even to some extent and counterhirs, it is not exactly a satisfactory trend, it is likely to be about reserves and reactions to a rather rough picture like we had in the appearance of new market participants a few years ago, so today the market is relatively untrustworthy, however, if you look from the customer position, then it could be said that this competition has actually reduced trade margins to the level where you are actually becoming somewhat problematic, they fail to survive. But the information and tools that the regulator has at its disposal, such as tariff calculators published on our website, means of information through direct communication or through brochures, is trying to keep close to customers, especially customers in the category of household, rights and opportunities they have in such market energy. If this is to some extent surrounding the picture of what this classical energy looked like to us, and perhaps I missed mentioning some sectors such as Toplinarism which in 2018. They had no significant shifts other than the occasional corrections, I remind Toplination is not a narrow part of what we call a single internal market of the EU, Heat is regulated in a somewhat different way in each of the Member States, so our Toplining has some of its specific features, but in waiting for a new law that should probably amend some, let's call them, the awkwardness of the current legal framework, Heat has functioned reliably, and I say the regulator is present here in just one smaller part where only in a group of centralised systems regulates or monitors the cost of production. But the big topic to be dedicated to is customer protection, so something that, after the first wave of compliance with the regulatory obligations, which, for example, lasted from 2013 to '17 after EU entry. when the most intense effort was just to comply with the rules that are much and constantly changing, customer protection was not so much in the focus of regulators, but it is something that is direct and always and constantly present. The most direct way to implement customer protection is to directly object, directly objecting to which each individual is answered and with great attention. Second, the second point of customer protection in order to inform customers as best possible about their rights in 2018, we published two brochures that are relatively well accepted at consumer protection meetings that provide information that is just trying to get to know the customers where they are because in that sense their consciousness is still at least part of the level of households in some sort of municipal reflections from many years ago. Perhaps only because of the reminder should the elements of what can only be viewed as institutional protection. So, there are mechanisms in Croatian legislation, one part of which has been passed by regulators, one part of it monitors and monitors, so there are certain categories of protection, we mention guaranteed supplies, guaranteed supplies that we talked about in this auditorium a few months ago, and even a year ago, not always well understood by a category that guarantees customers the continuity of supply, and in cases where, for any reason, they remain without their supplier, whether it comes out of the market, it comes into financial problems etc., such institutes exist on both sides of electricity and on the gas side. The concept of a protected customer, however, should also be mentioned, is something that is categorized in the context of security of supply. So in Croatia, the security system of supply is partly based on a sequence of how we will react in cases of crisis. Protected customers, which are households and particularly sensitive categories, fall under the conditions of crisis, the latter must be reduced supply. So, systems exist to some extent, but I stress this importance to understand this very conditionally and the fact that our deregulation has not yet come to an end, that we still have in the gas institute regulatory by the public gas supply regulators is something that represents certain security, however, only if it is viewed with non-trust on the market, basically market mechanisms that are below such regulated prices are those that should give primary benefit to customers. I will end this exhibition only with a reminder of the fact or I think that he has already looked at this detail several times, but it is important to remember and it is important to be aware of it, there is an important international component in everything that European regulators do, so there are bodies through which European regulators cooperate and so the HERA are trying to change experiences and support each other in the phase of implementation of the European framework, especially implementing acts, these I say network codes and similar ones, on the other hand, trying to also participate in the adoption of the best solutions for the documents that are in place or which have recently been adopted. I will focus first and foremost on the complex of 8 documents, 4 regulations and 4 directives that were adopted in the second half of last year and in the first half of which, in its trilogue, the EU and the European Commission have in fact completely changed or changed to a good extent, the paradigm of the electricity market in Europe, which is particularly green, which is aimed at strengthening the objectives of the share of renewable sources and which, in the end of 2050, the EU target, which is neutral of carbon dioxide emissions. Such re-mixing of cards in the electricity sector, including energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, is a major challenge for every national energy and for European regulators, and this is, for example, a component in which European regulators try to co-operate to fully understand all possible repercussions of such a programming document. Why? Well, because regulators have the primary task of assessing their success in the stability of each market. This means that regulators want new components, that new moments, to install new technologies into regulation practice and in the practice of national energy in a cost-effective way, is also the reason why some times they are not necessarily popular in the European Commission because they kind of give the impression that they are slower than others who create dynamics, but the task of regulators is to try to point out when some of the new technical, technological or organisational measures are perhaps disproportionately expensive or should be brought into some smarter dynamics. The challenges therefore that stand before both HERA and all regulators are continuous implementation let's call it new energies, further stabilising what we have now and further completing the market opening process. There are not only new technologies on the threshold in the already understood areas such as smart metering or intelligent criteria that Croatia will only launch to some extent with the basis of other things and some of our assessments and our analyses. It's about technologies we read about in the paper, but their coming to the market doesn't always have to be quite smooth, it can represent a whole series of challenges, from those that are already real today, so we're talking about autonomous systems, about self-production systems to those that have some extent and destructive character that will be further concerned with me saying, energy classics like... systems or a series of moments already being discussed intensively if not applicable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much, therefore, about the annual report itself, I will limit myself to the second point if you allow, mention and remind you only that when we talk about the achievement of the HERA budget, that HERA is financing revenue from the compensation of energy entities that are 0.5% of their annual turnover in regulated activities, that is how it is recorded in the Energy Activity Regulation Act. By the end of 2016 HERA was defined as a non-profit organisation and led its accounting according to these principles from 1.1.2017 for statistical reasons for reporting to EUROSTAT, HERA is a beneficiary of the State budget as head of the division of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, however it is independent in the allocation of that budget. The budget was planned at level 29 and some million kuna, realised from 28 and a half to Income and from around 25 on expenditure [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I hope it was an illustration of this document and that this document will be accepted, and I am at your disposal for questions. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Jurekovic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165085	Thank you. We have six replicas on your exhibit. The first is a colleague of Sladolev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165086	Thank you. Dear Mr Jurekovic, therefore, you said that the price of gas for households is on the EU average, however, the fact that we are not an average country in the EU, but is below average, so by purchasing power we are probably the last so that this argument of yours that we are the average and that some praise does not stand. However, I have one other question, and in fact it is what the regulator actually serves when it can misjudge tariffs by more than 40%, which happened in the previous years, it is about the City Gasporteur Zagreb when HERA sought an extraordinary business audit and changed the distribution margin from 25 to 41% where it was actually wrong for citizens to assess the tariff, and this was paid by the citizens of the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165087	Thank you. Next replica, Col. Dobrović. A colleague, Mr. Jurekovic, decided to answer through the finals to everyone. Here you go, colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165088	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Jurekovic, I am interested in the state of affairs regarding the adoption of sublegal acts, namely, it has been known that HERA has been having difficulties in meeting these obligations for many years and, of course, it damages the development of the market, so to energy in a healthy manner. In this report I see that there are therefore several methodologies in the gas sector and you have listed something in the electricity sector, but in others there is practically nothing. I ask you an answer to the question, how do you stand today with obligations to issue sublegal acts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165089	The next replica of my colleague Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165090	Thank you, Vice President. You spoke about HERE's independence from the executive authority, we know that in 2018, the law, HERE status is in line with the law and everything is in line with the EU HERE's Independence Directives. However, the last time we discussed the HERE report, then some MPs try to impose the thesis that in fact HERA is not independent of the executive authority. So now I'm asking you, as president of the HERE Board, do you feel that you are HERU independent of the executive authority or can you function independently of the executive authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165091	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165092	Dear Mr. Jurekovic, although HERA has only the role of regulators, my question goes for what you said in your report, and these are movements on the gas market, so we had a gas price drop from around 2011 to 2017, last year we have a rise in gas prices on the international market which is clearly reflected at the retail price of gas. In last year, for most of the economy in this year and for households and the economy, and I'm asking you how you look at building a gas terminal in Krk, will this contribute to the fact that prices may be less in the future and will this contribute to making Croatia more independent of only one or two sources of gas that we depend on today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165093	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165094	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Jurekovic, you're in your presentation of the truth a little bit, I would say shyly, but you've been a little quiet about one important fact you haven't hidden it, so in two years, the price of gas in the Republic of Croatia for households will rise. According to these reports, according to the HEP report, their financial report could be expected according to this assessment that I had very little to consider today that this would even be 30%, it could happen that the price of gas would rise for households. Heating in the Republic of Croatia is not cheap, even wood heating is no longer cheap, the poverty rate is high, and I really agree with my colleague Sladoljevo somehow is not very good and instructive to compare and to say that the prices of energy in the Republic of Croatia are below average prices in the EU and the Republic of Croatia in many things helmet. And my question now is how do you comment on what's actually going to happen in two years, we have two more winters for people to survive that third winter?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165095	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165096	Your report says what total electricity consumption is in the Republic of Croatia, and here you say it's 18.352 gigawatt hours, of these total thousands of gigawatt hours over 62% of entrepreneurs, the rest is household. What are the trends in relation to other energy sources, do they increase that share of enterprises in electricity or other sources?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165097	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? If not, I am opening the debate, so first debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the first colleague is Slaven Dobrović, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, in the final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165098	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome Mr. Jurekovic and all present colleagues and colleagues. So, HERA, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is in line with the Energy Regulatory Act is responsible for monitoring, implementing energy operators' obligations and, in accordance with several laws, an analysis of the energy sector, and is then responsible for observations that are relevant for the development of the energy market and public services in the energy sector. Of course, it also cares about the implementation of the budget, which means the implementation of the agency's plan. Yes, it is a transformation from a once fully regulated market to a semi-market-regulated system that we know when competition is in principle always generated by a reduction in the price of a particular service or product or an increase in the quality of that service. However, this does not necessarily have to be so and therefore it is important to make it possible for this competition to be healthy. Of course, the regulator here has special roles and powers and are well-known examples, here is a colleague of Sladolev's example of the City Gas station in Zagreb when the gasman experienced a very successful business thanks to the rise of the distribution margin which was then of course reduced. Therefore, this work should be done very carefully and what is important is the property of this process is transparency. So everything that really doesn't endanger some business, but that should be very little, must be available to the public. And that's why I'm gonna ask a few questions here. In fact, Croatia is an EU member and is part of the ENCO-led transparency platform, so this is the production of electricity, which shows figures on the structure of electricity production and of course there is no HERA directly competent but the CAPS, however, does not supply data. And when we go to those websites we can see that our neighbouring countries do, but Croatia does not. And here I am asking a question, wouldn't it still be okay if we fulfilled our obligations? Is there a risk of a lawsuit because we operate on an integrated market, let's say with Slovenians who meet that obligation we don't? So that's the kind of thing I don't think we should miss the attention of the agency that we're discussing here today. Well, then, for example. Plinacro, I don't understand why there's no transparent release of gas delivery data across the county. In fact, such data existed, it doesn't say for what period so we don't know if it's a slip or on purpose, but the data in which it doesn't know what period something relates, of course it's not worth anything anymore. What about the CROPEX power stock market? Why isn't there a store inside the daily market? And here's what I'm curious about, wouldn't Hera be able to do something and what's her role? I believe she should be in charge of these issues in encouraging that market. And we have questions, let's say, what's going on or is it possible that there might be some data that HEP ODS has a pretty big profit, so I'm curious about how it's regulated and how HERA is put into these, so it's actually a regulated monopoly, so we regulate it with a monopoly. It can be very well regulated so that the market conditions for different participants in this competition are fair or fair. So can HERA do something about it or does it do anything? This, therefore, stems from the basic duties laid down by the Energy Regulation because, of course, the regulated monopoly when things are not well worked out, when it does not respond to certain phenomena that such regulated markets achieve, it really creates the conditions that some are quite privileged. I would also ask, when would Croatia transpose a new Directive on the promotion of EU renewable energy sources, so 2018/2001? For example, Article 22 is done where it is possible to form communities of renewable energy. Namely, it stands in paragraph 1. ‘Member States shall ensure that end-users, in particular household users, have the right to participate in the renewable energy community by retaining their rights and obligations as end-users and not subject to unjustified and discriminatory conditions or procedures to prevent them from participating in the renewable energy community. And in the case of private companies, provided that their participation is not their primary commercial or professional activity" Of course, there is still the rest of that Article 22 which I am not going to harass you with now, but it definitely has a pretty great potential to promote renewable energy sources. You mentioned classical energyists, I know that classical energy follows some other visions and other rules so that they have great resistance to these changes. However, I believe that we should not ask questions about the justification of the direction the EU has drawn through the energy package, which is a strong shift towards renewable sources, because environmental insights are sufficiently clear that such behaviour is an excuse. So I don't think that the work of HERE, so other bodies should be subject to the debates that exist in the public on climate change and environmental problems because of course there are people, there are scientists who claim that all of this is not true. I think that the records are enough and that we should consistently follow this policy, in fact, that, given its geographical location, Croatia has one significant advantage. For Croatia, in which a lot of such equipment is produced and produced. With that in mind, I would ask, because you're only touching the show, I think that, in due course, you as a regulatory agency might talk a little bit more about the issue of emissions because it's not by chance that the energy sector connects with the environmental sector as it is connected with us. In fact, energy policies must be conducted hand in hand with the environment. Of course, if we don't all agree together that it doesn't make sense we go back to coal, but let's leave it to scientists and I think science is clear enough. We need to implement the policies that we have outlined and in them personally for Croatia I see no problem, but an opportunity. So the greenhouse gas emissions at least, these are the gases that contribute to this greenhouse effect, which are significantly related to the energy sector, could perhaps be better processed. So, this report is here the director or the director has made it nice, there are lots of nice diagrams, pictures, texts, but because of what I have said, I believe that HERA does not act in the way that this could be done today in Croatia and therefore does not deserve this report a positive assessment. Unfortunately, intransparency is being nurtured, I allow the possibility that this is all by accident and that within a month, the two of us will see that these practical problems that certain groups point to because they are not being solved are solved. Unfortunately, however, we now have the consequences of non-transparentity, in the end of a regulated disorder or monopoly, and for elected players on the market to be energy players, in which case more, where less allows an opportunity for very good income or profit. Of course, the people and the economy will have to find money and pay for it all together. I would say that they have such an impression in fact of citizens, they also have young educated ones, who have no problems with qualifications and competences, who can easily find jobs in Europe and the world, and they can therefore find it very difficult to reconcile with the structures that are here and in Croatia run this sector. We know how to choose, so both employees and management members, and unfortunately, it is part of this sad Croatian customeralist reality, making brakes for the improvement and development of Croatia. As long as that doesn't change, I don't think there's any way that the demographic crisis can primarily be stopped because of the exodus of young people and educated people, and, of course, in the second step, there's a situation like this at birth itself, so we have a very serious situation with each other. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165099	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next, counterpart Miro Totgergeli is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here's a colleague of Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165100	Thank you, Vice President. The President-in-Office of the Governing Council, colleagues and colleagues, today we are first and foremost discussing the HERE report for 2018 and the report on the implementation of the HERE budget for 2018, however, as the structure of the report is based on the good practice of reporting to national energy regulators in the EU and that most of the reports contain an analysis of the energy sector to expect that today's debate is mostly about the state of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia, but it is also expected to be based on data which is an integral part of that report, and the data is the most recent we can have at the annual level at this point. From the data presented to us regarding electricity in 2018. We have regarding the CAPS 33 km more 220 kilovolts and 75 km more 110 kilovolt power lines and 8 trafostations 110, 35, 30 kilovolts, for those who know what it means to build such facilities, they know that this is not insignificant data, while at the same time on the transmission and distribution network 84,22 MWh more power generation plants are connected. If the investments made in the transmission and distribution network are taken at the same time during 2018, they shall be taken into account. Then we see that these investments are in the transfer of 422 million and 877 million in ODS, which makes up a total of 1.3 billion kuna investments. Ten-year Hops and HEP ODS plans say it is these two regulated HEP companies in the next 10 years. They're planning to invest 16.6 billion kuna. Total electricity consumption in the Republic of Croatia has increased since 2015. and was 18.33 TWh hours in 2018, which is an increase of 0.9 compared to 2017, and this is also the highest level since 2000. Production from power plants on the territory of RH of these 12 TWh, which covers 66.4% of our consumption, the need or imported is 6.6 TWh. For example, for comparison 2017, our production covered 41%. Renewable energy sources in the incentive system, so these are those that are paid additionally from the HEP-free incentive system because HEP has these, they account for 14% of the production capacity of the Republic of Croatia, and they produced 17% of the electricity, the share of the electricity supplied from distributed sources, so those that connect to the distribution network is 5.75%. The total sales of electricity to final customers, the household is 37.8 and entrepreneurship is 62.2% and it was a question of how much entrepreneurship is growing, so a total of 1.5% more electricity was sold in 2018 than in 2017, and of which 4.9% were more sold in the high and medium voltage in 2018 than in 2017 and 1.4 at a low voltage, while the household in 2018 was reduced electricity consumption by 1.1. Therefore, these are indicators, if I still take this as much as is invested in HEP, which are actually talking about the growth of our economy during 2018 compared to 2017 and additional investments that help this growth of the economy. Data for final customers' electricity prices from 2013 to 2018 show a slight continuous drop in prices for almost all categories of electricity, and when compared the price in the Croatian household with prices in EU countries, so we add to 28 EU countries Norway, Iceland and Turkey, so that's 31 countries, then the price for households in the Republic compared to those 31, the Republic of Croatia is 26th place. The losses in the distribution network are 7.7%, while they are on the portable 2.2%. And now something small about renewable energy sources, so in 2018 a total of renewable sources 76 MWh were added, that is 21 objects produced from renewable sources that are in the incentive system, produced by 2.48 TWh, of which HEP has renewable sources in the incentive system, waste 04 TWh, and on all other 2,08 TWh. The average price paid in the incentive system is around €0.88 per kWh, while of course on the market on average it was possible to obtain electricity of €0.39, that is the price we pay for renewable sources and which we need to be aware of. As for the reliability of the system, the CAPS shows data in its own specific way, does not use SAIFI and SAIDI for the reliability of the system, but it can be read here that in fact the CAPS which is designed and built so that it has multiple reserves in power supply, so it is very rare that the reliability of the system actually comes down to that reliability that makes the distribution, and we see here according to the data that are here that from 2009 to 2018 we have a continuous decline of these coefficients, which is less and less and less coefficients, that is, in fact, reliability better, so that both SAIDI and SAIFI from year to year are getting lower, which means that less and less minutes per customer over the year without electricity, compared to having less and less interruptions per customer, this system that HEP ODS has, is working on the DISP system that is still there in 2005, 2006. And there's data for that year, he's been stalking himself at first, now he's a good stalker. In previous discussions on HERA's report, there was a lot of talk about another reliability, which is the reliability of production, so we can see from this data, if we compare a little bit, the species that we have and the connection forces to the system, which is why it's falling on our water, which is fossil fuels, wind, sunlight, geothermal and biomass, then we see that in the installed force fossil fuels account for 40.56%, water 43.83%, wind 11.67%, biomass 2.39, sun 1.35, and geothermal 0.2%. But if we compare that to the indicators of how much electricity is produced then we see that we produce the most using water 57.08% in 2018, and fossil fuels are only 26.38% and we actually see that we also have supplies of installed power in production. The wind around how much the percentage of installed power makes up so much electricity production 11.67 to 10.95, biomass slightly more 4.96 participates in energy, and it is installed 2.39, the sun only 0.61 into energy, and it is installed 1.35 and geothermal is the same. But what is this information still saying? If we look at how much electricity we produce from renewable sources, not from the renewables system, but from the renewables system, then all the water is actually a renewable source, our geothermal is a renewable source, the sun, biomass, the wind is all renewable sources, then it turns out that we only have 26.38% of our electricity generation in 2018, which is not from renewable sources, and everything else is renewable energy sources. A little bit about natural gas. The total amount of natural gas that came out of our transport system in 2018 is 29.540 MWh hours which is 8.7% compared to 2017. What it looks like when we look at how much we produce ourselves, so we make about 9,660 GWh ourselves, buy 15,535 GWh, the warehouse about as much as we take back, here and in entrepreneurship ends up at 14,538 directly from the transport system, and another 5,035 GWh from distribution, and it turns out that the population makes 5,865 GWh, which is the total of that gas being transported somewhere 1/6. The average gas selling price during 2018 increased by 0.8% compared to 2017, but we should look at HERA's report for 2017 then we will see that in 2017 the average price was reduced by 11% compared to 2016. It may also be important to note that the average purchase price in 2018 was 24.9% higher than in 2017, and the price for customers to the household was only 0.8%, resulting from the fact that the government or the law that we have allows final suppliers to buy from HEP d.d. at a fixed price over one year and cannot be changed by more than 10% next year, and that is what we had this year's debate on price increases for 2019 due to the price increase in 2018. As for oil, our domestic production is about 610,000 tonnes which is 8.5% lower than in 2017, imports are 5.8% higher. But what's also interesting is that the total production of oil derivatives in 2018 is 5.6% higher than in 2017. And a little bit more about heat, the category of households in the thermal sector practically belongs to 95% of all final customers. The household industry was delivered 1.99 derivative hours heat energy, the average losses were about 18% and the tariff items for energy did not change in the household throughout 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165101	Thank you, colleague Totgergeli. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next is counterpart Tomislav Žagar in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165102	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Jurekovic, colleagues and colleagues. So every report and this contains a series of data, and it's about that we can interpret these data in different ways or in the way that we think it's the right interpretation or the way we think it could be done better or more so we don't get into the state we're in right now. So the report in those forms that I don't see here is that there's a significant change in the report that's been brought here for years and I don't have any relevant objections. The report is well-conceived, giving us information that happened with the energy market in the Republic of Croatia. But let me say the following observation in my interpretation that may be somewhat free. In fact, I am not far from being a Eurosceptic, even the more I stood up for it, and I voted so and today I believe that the path of the Republic of Croatia is the only way in the EU and we have no other way. However, the EU imposes a series of demands on us. Sometimes it seems to me that instead of "Ode to Joy" the EU anthem should be "Money, Money, Money" by the ABBA group because so much attention and so much attention to the market as to something that will regulate everything, it really fascinates me, it might not now, maybe someone could say that I belong to the past time, I don't know what you're going to call me, but I deeply doubt that the correctness of this issue, and I'm going to say it on the following examples, but first of all, this report also encouraged me to think about the difference that is not seen in everyday speech, and that's the difference between the state firm and the public company. So, says the state is necessarily a bad master, it's a pointless statement because the state can be the owner of various companies is just a question which the state will appoint. executive power to be appointed to manage these companies. That's the key question. Let us take an example of the Croatian Railways, there have been attempts to do something, but it has failed in no part, nor to make them profitable, nor to be of public interest. to benefit most citizens. Take an example of Croatian forests, there even tried to be profitable and then discover the contracts that were concluded by the administration with generous bonuses we actually saw that it was not in the first place public interest as much as it was of private interest, and then either the consequences are felt often by employees who are either getting rid of the number of employees or otherwise being spared in a way that is not appropriate. And of course here is now Croatia's electricity industry, and I'm going to say more about it, which is also trying to make it really profitable, and also in the interests of public, public interests, to take a step forward. However, what is somehow going through all these examples, that public interest i.e. The interest of most citizens in the Republic of Croatia is not satisfied, and I personally think that although many economists will resent that public enterprises better not operate with profits, they better fulfill the interest they have primarily, which is the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why I warned Mr Jurekovic, although it is correct that he said that the energies in the Republic of Croatia are below, the price of their below averages in the EU and for the economies and households, however the situation in, the economic situation of the average population of the Republic of Croatia is not good and therefore, it is very dangerous to compare it in this way, because according to the State Statistics Office, be careful, so we can believe that these data are accurate, almost every 10 inhabitants in the Republic cannot provide adequate heating, every 10. Well, it's not good for us citizens to get warmed up in malls or trams or in Dalmatia when the little sun stops, so they go out in the sun. That's not a good message. Look at the price of the gas it is still regulated and according to what I read from the report, I did not say that Mr. Jurekovic is hiding it, but it somehow seems crucial in this report, another 2 winters and after that from spring there in 2021 that regulation will stop, so the gas will be for, the price for households will be regulated by the market. In this case, that price, the lower price that citizens pay, pays HEP under quotes. If we look at his financial report, then we see that the profit of HEP for 2018 is 1.3 billion kuna exclusively profit from electricity, sales, purchases of electricity sales. So, with gas, if we look at practically the cost of getting gas and selling gas, it's compensated, so actually, HEP is at zero, so I think from the report, maybe I'm wrong. HEP warned that due to price regulation then what is, I think that fellow Totgergeli on behalf of the HDZ Club would talk about when he suddenly collected this and the price of gas, HEP then claimed to lose 160 million kuna. And now I'm asking that question again from the beginning of the story, which loses HEP, which is actually HEP, what is our interest as a state? And then we come to the independence of the operator, the excuse agency, I agree the agency she must be independent but she must not be independent of the citizens and independent of the executive authority, which is where I disagree. It must be independent of the interests, the particular interests of individual players on that market, which is very generous. That market, in that market, is turning big money we have to notice if the exact data for subsidies only goes to renewable sources of around 2 billion kuna. So, that's, that's the money that sits on somebody's account every day, I'm not saying these people didn't deserve it. And I'm not against the market, but I, if I were asked myself, would give even more power to the agency and in that sense, and this regulation of the gas price itself in 2 years will be quite problematic, because there is no other, the gas is now below that price and it will have to be collected, and it should be said to the citizens and there is expected probably if HEP now loses 300 million kuna a year that price could rise by 30%, the price of gas. Look at this one with the price of warm wood. If we look at the heating value of wood, then when we calculate the price of wood heating, it's no longer cheap, and it's even more expensive than the price of gas. You know why people in Slavonia are heating up on wood? Because I can heat one room, I don't have to, because it's usually gas-based or whole house, and you can combine with trees, and then it turns out it's cheaper, but it's not the price of the space meter that's significantly jumped. So we have problems with the public's heating in the Republic of Croatia. Is that the agency's job? Surely not in that part, this is the government's job, but the agency can only do a certain job if the government allows it. Because even when it starts now, so far there have been domestic gas tenders, so, in fact, there's been a certain HEP no one wanted to answer, but when the actors report that this is going to happen in any way and then regulates that price so that it doesn't go practically to heights that no more citizens will be able to pay. The government's decision was welcomed by the regulation that it also reduced the price of gas used for heat heating, it is to welcome. Therefore, we should welcome all those decisions that go towards making it easier for citizens because they have not come to such a difficult position with their own free will. Of course, the good argument of all those who are for liberalisation, for deregulation, is that once the oil market has stopped regulated, the fuel that the price has actually started to fall. So it doesn't matter the regulation itself to keep the price at a certain height, but I think regulation still has to ensure that it doesn't cost citizens too much. And in the end, just from the position, maybe in this report I didn't notice that there was a mention of it, and I didn't read it carefully enough, when it comes to distributors that there are a lot of gas distributors in the Republic of Croatia, the question of how many of them will survive. Because reducing margins on their services is a question of how much further they are economically sustainable, and then there will be problems. Now we have in the water supply sector we have a rounding, if that's in the gas sector then again the question of the ultimate price that customers will have to pay. Finally, I will support the report, I have no reason not to support it, and these issues are certainly beyond the agency's question but are issues to be addressed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Resort Ministry. And I congratulate you on your work and I think you can do more in the future only if you are allowed to act more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165103	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Ivan Lovrinović. The colleagues of Ivan Lovrinović have no meaning of losing the right to discuss this agenda point. Next up is a colleague of Damir Felak's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165104	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Jurekovic. I would also like to point out that although HERA is an independent body of the tasks it performs are of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and through its public action it has a very high responsibility. The report itself is methodologically very correct and extensive in accordance with the legal and European principles of structuring such documents. We are vertically presented with energy while the horizontal activities that contribute to the easier finding of such a comprehensive document make it more readable. The report contains all information on activities related to the HERA area, market surveillance results, enforcement of energy obligations, quality of services, security of supply, monitoring of legal frameworks, and during 2018 we had a series of amendments and additions of laws in the field of energy, new laws and harmonisation with European legislation. Among the most important events marked in 2018 in Croatian energy, it is certainly necessary to highlight the integration of Croatian and Slovenian... electricity markets, which is the first introduction of an indirect allocation of cross-border capacities at the Croatian-Slovenian border, which has led to a multiple increase in the volume of electricity trading for... on CROPEXU means the Croatian transmission system operator HOPS and Croatian electricity exchange Cropex in this way formally linked the Croatian electricity market to the European multi-regional electricity market, which is also the first successfully realised project of such type in the Republic. Furthermore, at the EU-wide level in 2018, it is marked by the completion of the Clean Energy package for all Europeans whose task is to facilitate the EU's energy transition towards clean forms of energy and meet the goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The EU has set its task by 2050 to be carbon neutral, so there is no carbon emissions, which is a very ambitious project and must be costing a lot. This is exactly what we see from this report, it is evident that electricity generation is growing from renewable sources, most of which is through hydropower plants and biomass power plants, while unfortunately we are still getting very little energy from solar-based power plants, as well as geothermal power plants or cogeneration. I think in the next period we need to work to make it more, but we need to be aware that it costs. The best indication for us is that the average energy price generated from renewable energy sources is 0.88 kuna per kW/h while the electricity price that could be purchased on the stock market in Europe was 0.39 or 39 lip per kW/h. We see that this difference is more than double and for these incentives Croatia made visiblely paid for 2.2 billion kuna incentives in the last year from this report. Now, if we wanted to replace, say, fully fossil fuels as a source for electricity production, I think my colleague Totgergeli said that since last year it was used that the source was some 26, some percent in fossil fuels and if we have some 13% here that we got from renewable sources should be somewhere on this 2.2 billion in a rough calculation of another 4.5 billion kuna for incentives with current technology, with current capacities that we have in order to replace fossil fuels only in the last year that was hydrologically favourable as indicated in the introduction of this report. So we used a lot more water power plants, and we didn't use the capacity we have in fossil fuel power plants. This should be taken into account when we say that as much investment as possible, I agree, but I hope that the same technologies that develop in the world every day over the next few years will lead to energy production from these renewable energy sources being priced here at least anywhere, as well as fossil fuel production, and that will then be the best recommendation to avoid energy production, electricity from fossil fuels, which will clearly reduce pollution. I can tell you that here it may sound a little rough, but one of the good sides of these climate change, if you can talk about the good sides of climate change, are milder winters, more average temperatures and less consumption, only in gas we see that last year over 8% less gas is spent, I think Mr. Jurekovic said that one of the reasons is exactly the climate or more temperatures, there are others, and other reasons, but in any case it means something, that's something that contributes to milder, milder winters contribute to smaller consumption, less energy consumption, means less gas consumption, so ultimately it feels both on and on the accounts of end-users. Surely the market must be regulated, regulated by most of the things in the price of energy, either gas, electricity or heat itself, but I agree with my colleague, Sagar, that we must not leave all the way to the market, because we must have certain mechanisms in regulation, but we must know that these mechanisms are, above all, in that area of taxes, various fees, etc., and the world price of energy is the price at which they are bought, and unfortunately there is little or almost nothing to be affected by it, except possibly in that part of the energy we produce, which we produce in our own territory, and that is also questionable again because they too have to be produced under some market laws. In short, if we didn't owe around this, we would have touched only a short budget of HERA itself because he was in the composition of this report, so he was some 28.5 million kunas used, it was achieved last year in revenues, expenditures are smaller, so that the difference of some 3.5 million kuna and accumulated with, with, with those differences or surpluses from previous years, it amounts to almost 28 million kuna, which is clearly one entire HERA budget, so I'm putting it here to think whether HERA must have so many incomes, I know that if it gave up part of those revenues, that clearly HERA could still function, and the economy itself, and those of which charge these revenues from administrative and administrative fees and revenues, it would have been a little, little easier, so here my proposal should be as well as the total needs of the HERA, that there are not fully realised in terms of income or income. In any case, I strongly support this report and, as I mentioned earlier, the challenges we must address in the future are innovation and further fostering investment in renewable energy sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165105	At your exhibition we have two replicas, the first colleague of Mišić, followed by his colleague Vučetic, here's my colleague, Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165106	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Felak, the prices of energy in the Republic of Croatia are quite high by my thinking and looking at it, so I'm asking if it's possible that the Republic of Croatia has to have such expensive, especially oil, we've produced 60% of the gas, now I don't know how much, probably 40, we have a little bit of better insulation, we see that winters go hand in hand, so we've had 8% and less energy consumption. Do you need incentives to give alternative energy sources like solar panels and some others that are already being worked, here's the news this morning, they were doing some kind of power plant, hot water, around your place, he gave that solution, of course by our salaries and our standard we can't easily, we can't have a pleasant comfortable heating if [[Intruder: Thank you]] We measure with Europe and the world. [[- I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165107	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165108	Dear Mišić, the question is good and thank you for reminding me of these thermal energy sources, surely that one part that can be developed much more than it is currently developed in the Republic of Croatia, should be found by investors with whom, as far as I know and negotiate, some have done something, and can be done much more and in the field of Lunakovec, near here Koprivnica there is also one source that is useful and for which the real investor should be found and I think that all other energy could be obtained not only by energy, but also by other benefits, because it is one little broader process of exploitation and thermal energy, in any case it is our goal, I think that energy or all other energy is cheaper to all households and all citizens and entrepreneurship, we just need to find the right way to do it and how to realise these alternative sources as well. Energy. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165109	Here you go, pal, replica no. 2nd colleague Marko Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165110	I thank my colleague, I only refer to two, three words you said, which is that we can't leave everything to the market. I agree, and I think that this should be repeated, especially because the country that leaves everything to the market is nothing but a lab for eugenics, for the way we will develop compassion for those who disappear in poverty or die in ignorance, because if we leave everything to the market, from education, science, to energy, we stop being and stop being a social state and become one of the social shooting sites in which we will remove the poor and the poverty we have produced independently of the sector, and therefore I believe that it is necessary at least once a day to repeat that we are not a country in which we are not leaving everything to the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165111	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165112	Mr. Vucetic, thank you for this replica. I also said in my presentation that I advocate not to leave it all the way to the end of the market, some of the laws of the market simply cannot be avoided, it is written in this report and in the opening statement it is said. But precisely for these reasons of the social state, a state that takes care of its citizens and the Government of the Republic of Croatia as far as possible regulates certain things and beyond the laws of the market. So this is also to apply the price of gas, keeping the price of gas in the past year at a level which has not corresponded to an increase in the price of gas on the world market shows and on other occasions. But I fully agree that there is one balance to be found there and that there is certainly still a chance that the state might be involved in some things, but not too much, because the basic laws of the market are still not to be broken because then we go to another extreme and we create other problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165113	Thank you. It's usually called energy poverty. Here's my colleague Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165114	Thank you, Vice President. So here's the debate on electricity prices, and then I'm going to go over what's here in the report and it's written. So it's absolutely not that everything is left to the market, part is regulated and part is left to the market. 45% of electricity and supply costs are left to the market. 33% is a regulated part of the price, that's the part relating to the HEP ODS network and the HOPS network, and that's exactly what HERA is responsible for and what the President of the Board of Directors has mentioned that this transmission network is at one point and reduced. And we're left with 22%, which is tax-deprived and compensation-related to renewable energy sources. So from these fees we actually pay those 2 billion kunas to have renewable energy sources. Now, through the discussions, like when you said it, how when it suits who, at one point, individuals argue that we have as many renewable energy sources as possible, different species, especially the sun. And then at some other point, we should have a price of electricity that would be the lowest in the EU or even wider. The data in this report show that Croatia is in that twenty-sixth place of 31 countries or 25th. So there's also Turkey, which is 31, and I think it's Sweden or Norway. So we have a price among countries that have the lowest price in the EU. Now it's just a question of these 45% that forms the market, that's the price of electricity and we have suppliers. One of the suppliers is HEP. HEP, of course, sells its electricity that it produces. What does HEP's winning depend on? Well, I think we can be very open and clear here, so it depends on hydrology. If the year is good and if it can produce a lot of electricity from water then the HEP will gain growth and if it has to produce a lot of electricity from fossil fuels then of course it will not succeed in making some profit that year and if we switch most of the production to fossil fuels we would have a certain loss because it would hardly be able to achieve the price it can find on the market, then it is actually a cheaper part of electricity to buy on the market than at any cost to force fossil fuel production especially at some point in the day. But these are now shades that are completely clear and familiar to those who deal with electricity. As for renewable energy sources, I did not arrive on behalf of the club, so the solar, electricity produced from the sun, the incentives paid to the Republic of Croatia are the largest and for kilowatts of electricity is paid 1.93 kuna until, for example, for the cogeneration of 0.55 for the vertre of 0.75 and for those small hydropower plants that would not be worth building at all if they were not in the system of incentives of 0.85 kuna. When I was talking about renewable sources, and of course it produced electricity from water that are all the hydroelectric power plants that HEP has, and if it's a good year, of course, to force production from hydropower plants, and that's when HEP makes profits and what should HEP invest in? So you should invest precisely in building new objects and preparing new objects or revitalising existing objects so that these existing objects have even more power and have greater reliability. Among other HEPs according to what can be found on their site, besides investing in those facilities that are traditionally owned by hydropower plants, thermal power plants, investing in renewable energy sources such as solar power plants, and thus owning HEP is one power plant that is in the system of 1 megawatts of solar, solar power plant and has integrated on its facilities about 207 kilowatts of solar power plants. With it currently trying to build another 100 kilowatts of solar power plants and one field of, one field that is small and larger than what I mentioned. However, often when we discuss renewable energy sources, then some MPs argue that we do not need the wind at all and we need the sun which, of course, is not true. We both need wind and sun. At this point, the sun still requires greater investment compared to what is obtained later, so that it should be cost-effective to find optimal ways, and that is one of these are also incentives, but through the Law on Renewable Energy, we introduced the category that household as a final customer can install solar power plants on its own roofs for its own use and now let's say one household if it has an electricity bill of about 300, 400 kuna per month, let's say 400 kuna per year is about 5,000 kunas of electricity, an investment in the power plant about about 10 kilowatts is a order of 25, 26,000 kuna, if it manages to build a power plant with which it will cover its own needs means that over 5, 6 years it actually returns investment through electricity. On the other hand, entrepreneurs, such as farmers, there are funds where EU funds can build solar power plants on their own facilities for their own purposes, and then their investment is covered by funds, and then, through electricity consumption, they don't pay the part that they can compensate for, so let's say, if the power plant works more over a day than they need, it's put into the system, and then on a monthly basis, it's compensated with what it takes from the system and if it's around 0, there's practically no electricity bill. These are possibilities already embedded in legal solutions I just think that even citizens may not be sufficiently informed, perhaps even entrepreneurs, so they are not using them enough and should certainly be invited to use as many of these forms as possible. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165115	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit, colleague Felak Damir. Here's your colleague, Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165116	Thanks to my colleague Totgergeli, here you mentioned in your presentation the possibility or capacity to build new hydropower plants, including hydroenergy plants, along with other renewable energy plants. So I ask you, as well as the man in the area who worked in HEP, is there a hydrocity potential in Croatia for building new hydrocentrals, not only these small ones, but let's say the medium ones from which they could get more power, more power, and thus become a less energy poor country than we are now?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165117	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165118	Thank you. There is no great potential, but there is, as you yourself said, the potential for small power plants, however, for these small power plants require large investments, and then the question of profitability is raised over a long time when they will be paid off. However, this project currently related to Senj 2, is a good project practically works about nearly 400 megawatts of new power, although it will not contribute so much to the production of electricity, but in any case it will ensure the stability of the electricity system and we will have in particular the part needed for regulation in the energy system during the day, and I think that production there should be increased by about 30% compared to what electricity is now produced during the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165119	Thank you very much, and on behalf of the rapporteur, President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, Mr Tomislav Jurekovic. Here's my colleague Jurekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165120	Your Honor, I will again try only very briefly to respond to some of the groups of topics that have been opened here. First of all, I thank all the participants of the debate because we are trying to take care of this year after year about the things we hear here, and for one part of the questions you've asked I will answer or we will answer in writing as usual, I will just look back at two, three topics. Some of the people who are MPs who have asked the question are no longer here, and part of these questions is not new, so maybe I'll skip this one for this opportunity, but let me just look at a few details. The tariffs in the regulation shall be made ex ante or advance. It shall be brought on the basis of data submitted primarily by energy entities themselves. There will always be an asymmetry of information between regulators and every company, you will never know everything the company knows. One piece of information that your company says you'll have to believe. This is why occasionally what you respected, Mr. MP, has been called the anomalies in the City Gasport Zagreb. Since I know the City gas station Zagreb, for many years I started working in it, I know the circumstances and believe that the methodology is trying to be as neutral as possible, always determines the advance events are sometimes in reality different so there is a correction. No methodology is perfect, we try to improve it permanently. Mr. Totgergeli asked me about the independence of doing our tasks. So I can say that the Croatian legal framework in this sense is fully approaching the European and we really have rules of play not since yesterday and not since this last amendment, the last change was just this cream on the cake, but our independence is well described and it is completely but it is a pair of what is normally written in the European.../incomprehensible/... I can say that even our actions with regard to executive power, in recent years we have really been working in one correct relationship, namely we must always cooperate on strategic issues and conduct regular consultations, but we do not suffer any pressures which are very pleasant for us, surprise and change in relation to the situation before that, which was quite different and where this adherence to the law on that side could even be questioned, but these are the paces to pass, we all see. Apropo issues Mr. Sagar has referred to are all over one complex of course which can also be touched on social sensitivity topics from the topic of energy poverty, but also more concrete topics in practice. I may not be able to speak at all this briefly, so I'll allow myself if I may answer any of them in writing. A couple of concrete ones. The fact is that 2021. of 1.4. in the Republic of Croatia, the following stage should be actually a complete deregulatory of the price of gas, but I am paying attention to the disappearance of the supplyer institute on the wholesale market, so the regulated price that today as a wholesaler on the wholesale market is going to disappear according to our calculations that have fixed brakes in them both up and down and down for HEP. HEP has been performing this function for several years, with us the result of a public tender in which we have designated it because we did not have independent candidates, and before that, the government has determined since 2014. The finding was such that HEP had managed to do positive business for several years, had one very critical year with it, while his current year would probably be neutral. We will in any case be one of those who will launch a very broad public debate and achieve consensus both to the public and to the professions of the market model after 1.4.2021, the time for this is not too soon, it is so already tomorrow. There will certainly be certain mechanisms that will try in some ways to take into account the specificities of households as employees. However, we must at least be in the energy component, if not in some others, faced with the fact that our regulatory and European regulation of goods as such is always trying to view the market, and here we are talking about energy as goods. So it will need to be complemented, to change this concept, to supplement it perhaps with some alternative solutions, at this time we don't know what the supply of public service obligations will look like, at the level of distribution, it will surely survive, what it will be, if it will be offered by one, whether it will be offered by 10 or all of them who, at some tender notice, we have an obligation to determine them. On the wholesale market, the institute will disappear, its survival would be further a violation of European law, which has led us as a country to have certain objections, so we have to modify our approach and we will have to find some other mechanisms, some of them in social policy, some of which are about special management of energy poverty concerns and we will really try to create a transparent framework in which we could discuss what the market might look like after 1.4, without necessarily leading to an earthquake, will not necessarily represent an earthquake. So maybe the figures you looked at, looked at the moment that they were and when HEP broadcast the most pessimistic image, the price was no longer what it was at that time, this time the OVT doesn't have to work with a minus, so other words or earthquakes shouldn't be if tomorrow the market was fully opened. But oscillations will always be and this concept will have to be considered. The question was also about what is expected of the short-term movement of gas prices, and will the terminal that is being built have a positive impact in this regard? I think the fundamental reason why it is built primarily in security of supply in logic is that several directions guarantee a solution in critical situations, however, it is interesting that my arrival in HS read one news commenting on the possibility that in January or February due to relatively complicated negotiating relations between Russia and Ukraine something happens with prices early next year and general estimates are that the combination of storage and LNG terminals can probably create pressure in the opposite direction or not allow the market pressure to be too high. Generally speaking, there have been several issues that have focused on this very future, I am saying that we have done a lot in gas, the future of gas will probably be specific or different, but we will strive through serious and public debates and we are both open to HS and the Assembly Committee on the Economy and for information and participation in discussions or particularly to organise similar meetings. There was one issue of apropo relations between households and the economy in relation to energy consumption. It has been well noted that the fact that we notice a larger share of the economy in electricity suggests that we have a slight recovery of the economy which, by nature of things, certainly needs most of the electricity released on the market, is one positive signal. However, the counter effect we have or the opposite phenomenon is we have on the gas side, which is the incentive that we energy intensive industries don't have or we have less and less, so households there grow proportionally. I wouldn't draw any long-term conclusions, but the fact is that we have experienced a special decline in industrial production in the Republic of Croatia, it has also been felt by electricity, but that fact has recovered and electricity has gone in the opposite direction. So, as regards the future concept of renewable sources, we must remind ourselves that the Croatian state has already changed the concept of so-called. Feed-in tariffs on which the current incentive and such amounts are based which are paid in stimulating production from green sources. The new system is a premium system that will actually more correspond to the situation on the market and probably will not go too far in that sense, but it still remains certain implementing components. So, on the other questions that I'm not bothering you too much, except that I'd really like to thank you once again for this debate and for the suggestions on how to further improve, we're going to try and answer everything else in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165121	We have a replica on your exhibit, Comrade Batinic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165122	Thank you very much. You said that the decrease in consumption, if I understood the reduction in gas reading the decrease in industrial growth, means that industry no longer consumes that much gas. However, the fact is that a certain processing industry has gone to some alternative sources of heating, of cogeneration, of some others, of solar, etc., so perhaps let's say that this is some balance in that part. It is, therefore, not only that the reduction in energy consumption in the processing sector coincides with the reduction of industry growth but also the use of some alternative sources. There's just so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165123	Here, briefly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165124	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165125	Thank you. This is also the conclusion of the debate on the Hera work report for 2018, the Hera report on the implementation of the 2018 HERA budget and we will vote when the conditions are met. I thank Mr. Jurekovic. That was it, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165126	Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2018 and the Report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2018. The applicant is the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2018 and the Report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 76 for, 23 abstentions and 11 against the conclusion proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165127	We continue with the next item on the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. Proposer: Committee on Family, Youth and Sports; Proposer is Committee on Family, Youth and Sports on the basis of Article 4487161 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and of Article 6. The law of reward for promoting the rights of a child. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Would the proposing representatives like to give an additional explanation? We have the chairman of the Committee of colleagues Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a brief explanation regarding this decision ahead of us. So the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child is signed that the Republic of Croatia is awarding a prize for promoting the rights of the child for exceptional achievements in the protection of the welfare of the rights and interests of children. The prize is awarded as a reward for life's work and as an annual prize. Each year one prize can be awarded for life's work and up to three annual awards and given in the form of special recognition and in money. The award shall be awarded on 20 November each year on the date of adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child at the session of the UN General Assembly. The provision of Article 6 of the Law stipulates that the award is awarded by the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child appointed by the Croatian Parliament at a time of 2 years. The Committee makes up 5 people who are well-known public employees who deal with issues related to the rights of the child and are proposed to the Croatian Assembly by the parent body or the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The term of office of the present members of the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child expired on 6 October, so the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports decided at its 37th session held on 26 September to propose to the Croatian Parliament a composition of the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child for the next 2 years in the composition of Mrs. Lidija Tomljenović Kovačić, Mr Tomislav Ramljak, Mrs. Ines Strenja, Mr Sabina the Voice and Mrs. Ivana Boric. We propose to the Croatian Parliament of course to adopt this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165129	Thank you, too. So I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, counterpart Marko Sladolev. Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's our proposal, so we fully support it, and I wouldn't talk too much, so we want this reward to promote child rights. We believe that in Croatia there are a number of examples where their rights are violated. I think that they are the future of Croatia and that here in the Parliament yesterday we saw that they laughed at the whole assembly and that they in some way wanted to participate in social events and that they wanted to participate actively in social life and that there are a number of examples where their rights are being violated. So this award would definitely put children and those who promote those rights in focus. He wanted to point out once again in a way and to troublesome the situation where their rights are being violated. We fully support this proposal and we want other clubs involved. We think this is not just about one political party but all political options and we expect support in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165131	Thank you very much. Mrs Zeljka Josic is now at work in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165132	I would like to thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's how my predecessors said, what we all have in our best interests is to promote the rights of the child and all those who deal with the rights of the child and really need to be highlighted from our society sometimes and rewarded for all that they do. So before us, the proposal for a decision to set up a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, which, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, stressed the award for exceptional achievements in the protection of the rights and interests of the child. The prize is awarded for life's work and as an annual prize. What we need to point out, each year is marked, is on November 20th on the date of adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child at the UN General Assembly session. We believe as the HDZ Club that the elected members will indeed show their quality and that they will use everything they have acquired in their titles and when you look at a little bit of their life you will realize that we, too, have chosen the people who are the most qualified for this duty in this moment. We are aware of the importance of working with children and dealing with their rights. With our colleagues Ines Strenje and Sabina Vosovac were proposed by Mrs. Ivana Boric, Tomislav Ramljak and Mrs. Lidija Tomljenović Kovacic is all engaged in certain activities all over the years in child rights. - Mrs. Crescent. Boric and Mr. Ramljak have been working as social educators for many years to promote child rights. We know it's Mrs. Devereaux. Boric and an outstanding professor at the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty, where as a social educator, not only encourages and improves his profession but also participates in various projects that are very important for the fight in children's rights. As well as Mr Tomislav Ramljak as a social educator, president of the Centre for Missing and Abused Children who is particularly engaged in protecting children on the Internet. And Mrs. McNally. Lidija Tomljenović Kovačić, although a graduate. The journalist, most of his internship sees with children as a journalist-mentor through various newspapers, magazines, she is a workshop head, education and also works on informing children. Here these are, in short, all their résumés and we really think and we think that we should support them as the Croatian Parliament because we all often say that our children are our future and our children are all full of children's rights, so here we are, we will support this decision and I believe that all the other colleagues will thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165133	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Stjepan's turn. Again, the club of representatives of HSU, independent and SNAGA, Mr. Marko Vučetić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165134	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would not repeat myself because at that time I would question our concern for the interests, rights and welfare of children because only in the interest of both the public and ours, we would place members. I hope that more members have come forward than you have chosen them because if there are only as many as there should be, then we are already on the path to the crisis of promoting the rights, interests and well-being of children, I will not ask the Proposer officially because I am afraid of the answer but what this topic is important and it is important even from Heraklit. Heraklit said that man becomes closest to himself when he achieves that level of seriousness that a child has when playing. The basic characteristic of the child is the game. To take care of the rights and interests and the welfare of children means not to take away the game because the only creatures in our only developmental path, the only stage when we are able to freely give in to the whole of the world, is childhood. One who is able to play, is able to demonstrate his own freedom because something in the world creates in an undefiled way. The corruption and the end of the game can make the thugs who come from something older get. Taking care of children means fighting every form of violence. This violence can be institutional in schools, in different ways children can be discriminated against, based on material status to religion and rights that they have based on their religion because someone else does not. Children can and can be discriminated against, for example, by those who, in their direct encounter and professionally, take care of their development and cognitive and emotional and social, to be paid, for example. A form of child abuse will also take place because teachers and teachers will continue to be bribed in this society. I expect that someone from the ranks of teachers and teachers as the most paid public service on the basis of their professional training, will receive this award because they care about the rights, interests and welfare of children and those who deny the rights, material rights to teachers, step directly and indirectly, rights, interest and welfare of children. So this is not at the level of any abstraction, we must not just decide here by consenting with the members of this committee that we are on the side of children, we are on the side of children if we create a society in which there will be no violence, we are on the side of children if we encourage those who take care of children to be recognized because they take care of children, so the whole children's world, it's the awareness of freedom and it's the world of play. The world of adults, especially the world of politicians, is a world of playfulness. And now, on the one hand, in Croatian society, we have a tendency to play a game that belongs to children and we have a tendency of playfulness that belongs to adults. I would ask you only that today, at least as long as this point is being discussed, let us forget the playfulness and remember how the world looked promising to us when we were children, while we were playing in the open air, while we took this seriousness that the child has as Heraklit says as he leaves the game and now let us look, compare and enter our own insides and see how we are satisfied with ourselves while we are focused on some special interests because we are no longer able to give in to the whole of the world, the whole of the good and the whole of the interest, but then at least with nostalgia we call this memory and be honest with our children, we take care of children and be at least at this level, the level at which we can show that we care of children's rights and interests and that tomorrow when the strike starts, we will face our case of narrow, petty interests in which we have carried out institutional violence against children, because we don't recognize the value of thechild.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165135	Thank you, too, Mr. Vuketic. Now we're moving on to individual debates, Mrs. President. My sweetheart Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165136	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a proposal for a decision to set up a child rights award committee. There is still a lot of struggle to protect the children, to strengthen their position in society, so that their voice becomes as loud as possible, and of course to hear as far away as possible. We all have to invest extra to build better relationships between adults and children. Violence among children or peer violence is one of the burning areas of child protection. Of course, what I would personally commend is building or upgrading 200 kindergartens in the rural area that will certainly contribute and facilitate parents but also improve the conditions of growing up. Equally, the whole day's stay, the one-way work, are all things that we all have to work on together to improve the conditions of our children and young people. The institutions which, of course, are still engaged in the rights and protection of children in the Republic of Croatia, it is the Ombudsman for children, meaning in 2003, in force of the first Law on Advocates, which is precisely this law on the promotion of children's rights, which has been in force since 2005, we are trying to further, of course, improve and strengthen the rights of children. I am especially pleased that this year will mark the 30th anniversary of the UN Convention, and on that very day these awards are awarded and, of course, we all continue to work and protect the rights and interests of children. I am sure that the members of the committee we have proposed here for the next term of 2 years will work on this, some of us personally know here from these assembly benches, some from private life, and certainly here, I welcome the adoption of this decision on the establishment of a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, or these members, which we will confirm at one of the votes in the session on Friday or some of the coming days, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165137	Thank you, too. And in the end, ma'am. Snowy Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165138	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This is all very nice, and I think that we should always commend those who promote the rights of children but still listen daily that children and their well-being are the priorities of this country and on the other hand we are faced with almost daily serious violations of children's rights. What do we do as a society and a state? Invite parents for medicines for sick children, we keep listening in committees to decide whether or not to receive the medicine. Every child has the right to receive a cure and medical care. We also haven't heard of children having the greatest heat in children's hospitals without an adequate cooling device. They are often seriously ill children, and I do not understand why they are not heard from by their parents. I hope the gentlemen will consider such cases and try to reduce the suffering of all those present in these situations. The priority seems to be to study the initiative on a proposal for a decision to set up a committee because it is urgent and there is no waiting and only then see what to do with sick children, completed children. Many executions of children, poverty, discrimination are the everyday reality of this country. To highlight the recent examples and in the broader context and the blockages of adoption and entanglement at home. The right of children should not only be a priority but a priority at the very top of this country's moral scale. A lot of things can wait, but kids can't wait. They can't be answered tomorrow, they're looking for today. We are also shocked by the conduct of the Christian death case. What did a mentally and physically ill child do in prison, who protected the right of that child? I feel guilty, he said at the hearing, and I'm sorry it happened. If you let me go now, I would never do it again. I promise nothing like this will happen again. He died in a hospital in Split. I don't think there's a more painful and devastating lifestyle than a sick child. He was a mentally and physically ill child. I wonder what time we're behind so things like this can happen to us? Someone once said, “All the ideals of this world are not worth the tears of one child, ” let us think about it and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165139	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote on tradition when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9:30 with the addition of the agenda and after that is the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Strategy and the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2018, the applicant is the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, just a moment. Thank you very much. Have a nice and pleasant holiday. SECURE Interrupted at 16.09 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-09-0.u165140	Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. The proposer is the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament, and the debate is closed, so I am voting on that proposal for a decision. Let's vote. I find that, with 110 votes for and 2 abstentions, a decision has been taken to set up a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child in the text as proposed by the committee responsible. The first item of the agenda is: - Annual report on the implementation of the Strategy and the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2018. Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, the government delivered an opinion. The applicant's representative will now further explain the report, but before that, counterpart Grmoi will now report. Here you go.
