ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165635	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Today I have the honour of informing you of the government's work in the third year of office. The year in which we preserved political stability, strengthened economic growth, continued tax redundancies and structural reforms. The year in which we launched an exceptional number of infrastructure projects, significantly increased the use of European funds and returned investment credit ratings. The year in which we have achieved a strong growth in employment, wages, pensions and social benefits, which is why we constantly raise the standard of our fellow citizens' lives. In time IV. An industrial revolution that will radically change the world economy over the next decade, build a more orderly society and a more stimulating economic environment, crucial for Croatia's future, so it is crucial that thanks to the implementation of the programme, we catch up with countries that have joined the EU almost a decade before us. Three years ago, when we took responsibility, we found a polarised society, political instability, high unemployment, too high taxes, budget deficit, poor credit rating, slow implementation of structural reforms, poor use of European funds, and soon we faced a crisis of systemic proportions in Agrokor. Today, while much work is ahead of us, we can argue that in all these areas we have made significant progress and achieved tangible results at political, economic and social level. The healthy economic growth we are experiencing today is no longer based on borrowing but on reforms, investments, fiscal consolidation and the use of EU membership. At the government's initiative since the beginning of our mandate, the Croatian Parliament passed 585 laws. I will repeat it once again, protect and improve minority rights because we keep it a civilization imperative, because we consider it good for Croatian society and for Croatia, today an EU member who is stronger in international terms than ever before in its history. Today I will present the report through four main pillars. Legal security, a more competitive economy and a balanced development, protection of family, tolerance and justice society, and stronger and safer Croatia in Europe and the world. Let me look at the current political moment as well as the principles that we are leading to perform our duties and run the government in order to reduce social divisions, develop Croatia economically and restore optimism to the Croatian people. Over the past decade, the political scene has changed, throughout Europe as well as in our country. By promising to develop communication technologies, it has also unfortunately led to a huge increase in false information and hate speech, which thanks to the anonymity and use of social networks in the era of global communication, has an impact on the quality of information for our public and our citizens and in a negative sense. In the past 3 years, despite numerous attempts at destabilisation, we have worked hard to achieve our election promises to the well-being of Croatian people and have achieved achievements that we are proud of. There were those who before us had the opportunity to lead Croatia on the path of economic recovery but did not show themselves at the level of the task. They shared society, did not take advantage of EU membership, frozen salaries and pensions, had record unemployment, increased taxes and owed the country. This is the result of the mandate in which each citizen is in charge of an additional 17,500 kuna, which was the success of the SDP government. Despite such achievements, though, we daily listen to criticism and counsel from those who were in a position to show what they knew and could do, just as I described them, bad. So as a Government that solves a number of problems, we are ready to go to the Croatian voters at any moment, so let them decide who they want to trust with the future of Croatia and their children. Whether those who are trying to find a problem in each solution, and who do not have the opportunity to bring together the majority and lead the Republic of Croatia or those who have shown that they are not able to lead a responsible economic policy and raise the standard of citizens. Unlike them, we, guided by patriotism, solidarity for the most needed in society, values of freedom and responsibility of each individual, build the Republic of Croatia aware of our potentials, a country of self-reliable, working, complex and free people. By cultivating our history, our culture, our tradition, our faith, customs, family values which are the foundation of Croatian society, building the position of the Republic of Croatia in Europe, and based on values and achievements in the Homeland War. As far as justice is concerned, one of the key issues that our citizens are concerned is a large number of pending cases and the slowness of the judiciary. In order for justice to be justice, it must not only be available to everyone but also quickly. In this regard, significant progress was made before 3rd g. There were 530,000 unsolved cases, and by summer this year that number fell to 350,000, so it decreased by 180,000. We are investing in better equipment and more efficient organisation of courts and state-level attorneys, today entering the judicial profession, the appointment of judicial officials, as well as the decision-making process, is strictly omitted to the profession, practically without the involvement of the executive authority, and has been deprived of any political influence. The executive power cannot in any way enter into concrete proceedings for which the judicial authorities are responsible, as well as decisions taken by them, the independence of the judiciary is a constitutional principle which this government understands and respects, which I have often stressed lately. At the same time, the independence of the judiciary does not exclude the responsibility of the judicial officials for the decisions they make, which should be impartial, and always be based on law and facts. Therefore, we have reorganised a network of judicial authorities to ensure that citizens have better access to the courts, to combine the infringements with municipal courts, to reduce the number of judicial authorities from 116 to 108. The effectiveness of the judiciary will also be improved by the revision of certain legal institutes that slow down the litigation process, the introduction of new solutions making the process faster and more economical, while safeguarding the legal certainty of the rule of law, by e-communication we continue the digitisation of the judiciary, in order to fight corruption more effectively by special law, the applicants of irregularities, etc. whistles. One of the problems we have encountered was the large number of blocked citizens, the principle of solidarity we have passed a package of laws to address issues blocked to give the most vulnerable a hand of salvation and to enable a new start, we have allowed the state and the legal person associated with the state to write off part of the debt to citizens of up to 100.00 kn, we have allowed the suspension of long-term performances that have proved to be non-refundable, and the release of obligations through a simple process of consumer bankruptcy, the last in a series is an executive law which restores judicial jurisdiction in the exercise of a credible correction, introduces electronic communication and significantly reduces the costs of all the bodies involved. We also rule out the possibility of operations in the winter period, we additionally raise the amount that makes it impossible to complete the property, from 20 to 40.000,00 kn, we extend the round of receipts excluded from the performance, and we relieve entrepreneurs from carrying out the work on the salary. As a consequence of these measures compared to 325 000 blocked in March 2018, there were 251,000 in August this year. The amount of the March FINA blockade was cut from 43 billion to 17 billion kuna last year. When it comes to public administration, the message we send that the bureaucratized public administration is leaving in history, that we are building an efficient and digitized administration that is at the service of the citizens. The number of users of the e-Citizen system that provides over 60 electronic services has reached 750 000 of our citizens. All these and many other public services can today simply be done via a computer or cell phone, saving both time and money. By decentralisation and rationalization, we bring public administration closer to citizens. More than 200 state administration jobs previously conducted by the state administration offices in the counties from January 1st next year will be done by counties, and the number, the total number of officials to be reduced by this reform, is more than 6 hundred. We have rationalized the state administration, and we have reduced the number of agencies, institutions and companies and other legal entities with public authority. We depolitize and professionalise the public administration by underlining a clear line between civil servants and the politically appointed officials whose number we have also reduced since January 1st. In particular, the ministry's politically appointed assistants will replace 96 directors appointed on the basis of tenders from next year. We continue to work on fiscal and functional decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia with regular dialogue based on trust with counties, cities and municipalities, concrete projects that improve infrastructure, create jobs and raise the quality of life. We held 10 meetings of the Government outside of Zagreb, at these meetings a total of projects were signed or different decisions were taken worth 25.6 billion kuna, 6 meetings were held with mayors, mayors or heads of the Association of Cities and the Croatian Community of municipalities. When we think about the general interest and even development of the Republic of Croatia, we have given a special accent to Slavonia through our project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, 9 sessions of this advice have already been held, the next one will be in Vukovar this autumn. By amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, by paying all income from income tax, the local budgets increased by 18.4% and over 2 billion kuna in the first 9 months of this year, respectively, by an additional 9% and 900 million kuna respectively. All local leaders well know what they mean by funding infrastructure projects and European and withdrawal of European funds. This way they become actors. When it comes to state property, we have embarked on resolving issues that have not been used and abandoned state property were potentials that have not contributed either to the state or to the local level. We are therefore intensive in the process of resolving 2,300 demands that cities and municipalities are working on, looking for certain properties to develop their environments and realise investment projects. The medium-term economic potential of these measures is 5 billion kuna. It is important to say, when it comes to our economic growth, that, unlike earlier, it is not based on the task of future generations, but rather on reducing the debt of tax and administrative redundancy, structural reforms, increasing investment, better use of European funds. As a result, we have macroeconomic results that were previously unimaginable in Croatia. Due to the major public debt deficits that reached 85% of GDP, Croatia has recently been in the European excessive budget deficit procedure and has been in debt, and the crisis has not been seen to end. In only 3 years, we have turned this over with responsible public finances management, implementation of the National Reform Programme and the Convergence Programme. The thorough fiscal consolidation we are carrying out has allowed us to, despite the payments of state guarantees, mostly earlier governments, for an oil group of 4.5 billion kuna, we still manage to reduce public debt. I remind you that in 2015, the share of GDP exceeded 84%, while by the end of this year it should fall to 71.7 and 2021 to 65% of GDP. This results in one of the fastest cuts in public debt among EU members. A general government surplus has been reached over the past two years, and the report on the implementation of the budget for the first six months suggests a continuation of the trend in the balance of public finances. GDP continues to grow at a rate of up to 3%, but on a healthy basis and at the same time reducing the share of public debt by about 3 percentage points and continuous surpluses in the current balance of payments account. This is certainly better than the growth rate of 4 or 5% before the crisis, while at the same time increasing public debt by about 10 percentage points of GDP. There's this key difference. Which means that then growth was actually a borrowing to the burden of today's generations. Exports of goods and services increased in the first half of this year by 2.7%, household consumption increased at 3.5%. Croatia has no longer recorded excessive macroeconomic imbalances since February this year, after 5 years. That's how we achieved the goal I announced in last year's report here in front of you. A better blood count of the Croatian economy has enabled us to refinance more favourably. So the interest on public debt fell from 12 to below 9 billion kuna, from 12 billion a year to below 9 billion kuna. Interests on loans to citizens and entrepreneurs have also been reduced. We expect a continuation of that trend. Trust in the economic stability of Croatia is best told by the fact that this year in August, for the first time, we issued a vault record of the Ministry of Finance, thus refinancing at a negative interest rate of 0.05%. Namely, while our credit rating has been reduced 2 times between 2012 and 2015 this year, two or three of the world's largest rating agencies Fitch and Standard & Poors have raised our credit ratings to the level of investment. This achieved another goal of the strategy I announced last year. We have also removed an important obstacle to attracting foreign investment, which is crucial for the further development of Croatia and the creation of new jobs. In the previous 4 rounds of tax reform that we started in January 2017, we simplified the tax system, made it more stable and fairer, and the tax burden is now more evenly distributed to all taxpayers. During the first three rounds of tax reform from 2017 to today, we have taxed citizens and entrepreneurs for 6.5 billion kuna, and today is the last day of public consultation for new tax charges. We've reduced the profit tax rate from 20 to 18% and for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to 12%. With the latest amendment proposed in this package at 7.5 million kuna in Croatia, 93% of entrepreneurs will pay exactly this lowest rate of 12%. We increased our personal deduction from 2,600 kuna to 3,800 kuna and increased tax deductions for children and other abstentioned members with a prominent progress for numerous Croatian families. In addition, we have significantly increased the scope and amounts of non-taxable income, which gives incentives to entrepreneurs to increase and receive those employees who are not in income tax scissors. In the first step, we introduced the possibility of paying an extra to 5,000 kuna for success in the business. The result is that only in one month last year, in December 471,000 employees received an average of an additional 2,500 kuna. This year we have also increased untaxable food and accommodation benefits, kindergartens, we will extend to additional and additional health insurance, as well as to cro-cards. We've increased the amount of untaxable support for the newborn three times, from 3.326 kuna to 10,000 kuna. Downgraded VAT from 25 to 13 on the supply of electricity, transport of garbage, re-promaterial in agricultural production, fresh meat, fish, eggs, fruit, vegetables, baby diapers and children's seats. Unfortunately, the effects of this measure, although positive, are smaller than expected above all because of non-solidar behaviour of distribution chains and adverse market circumstances. We've reduced the VAT rate to non-receptive drugs to 5%. The tax on inheritance and gifts and the sales tax on real estate has been reduced from 5% to 3%. The tax on the company has been abolished, we have increased the threshold for switching to flat tax, which is a possibility today for all who carry out their own activities of catering or trade. We cut the contribution rates for pension and health insurance on the basis of other activities and on the basis of the second income from 20 to 10, respectively, from 15 to 7.5. The main reason why we lower taxes and strengthen the economy is to create new jobs and raise standards for our citizens. The number of employees in July reached a million and 578 thousand. It is not only more employees than we had before the crisis but it is also the largest number of employees in Croatia since independence in the past 28 years. In just three years, 103,000 jobs have been created, which is about the population of one Osijek, slightly less, the number of HZZO insurance companies has also reached a million and 600 thousand, and this is the largest since the record of 2008. Therefore, Croatia today records one of the highest increases in the employment rate in the EU that we raised from 61% when the government's mandate started to 66% and we said our goal was 68%. The number of unemployed in three years was almost halved, at the beginning of the term we found 217 thousand unemployed, at the end of September there were 112 thousand. In 2014, the unemployment rate that exceeded 18% decreased by 3 years from 13 to today's record-low 6.8%. Which is the lowest rate since 1991. We invested 6.5 billion kuna in employment policies, continued to implement the project Zaželi which employs more than 7,000 women in rural areas. The average salary in the government's mandate increased by 846 kuna, i.e. 15%, which is 3.5 times higher than in the previous three governments' mandate. We've increased the minimum wage to 3 thousand kuna net, that's more than 20%, or 504 kuna, which is twice as much as in the mandate of the previous three governments. The basis for calculating the salary of state and public servants who did not increase by kuna from 2012 to 2016 increased by 587 kuna, i.e. by 11.5%, although we had increased the pension increase by 5% by the end of the term of office already increased by 12%, which is twice as much as in the mandate of the previous three Governments. So I repeat, with healthy economic growth and tax cuts, we have provided citizens and businesses with an increase in average salary and 2x more minimum wage and pensions in just three years than in the mandate of the previous three governments. Despite this achievement due to the long-term freezing of salaries, we understand the impatience of employees in education, healthcare and other public services and respect their position that wages should be even higher. However, after the increase in salaries to all civil servants of 11.5% in three years and the offer that was on the table the other day by 4% we are talking about education, a strike which we are now witnessing is not justified by our court because the government has shown more than consistency to continue the dialogue. It is the government's duty to take care of the long-term interest of all public and private sector employees and to ensure that their salaries are further increased in the coming years, and to ensure that this is sustainable for taxpayers, for those who pay them all. So here's the first time I'm going to say it, we're going to offer a salary increase of 6 and some percent next year, 6.12% for all government and public officials by three waves of 2%. All of them. In order for us to be able to secure this and at this point we are working on the 2020 budget, we will propose to postpone the reduction in VAT rate by 1% point because we must find the means for which it was planned from January 1st. [[Applause]] At the same time, we are aware that the numerous coefficients that exist today in state and public services have been unfair and have been unconsistently changing for years. We want to solve that question. We want to solve them in a way that we will further engage experts who, based on a detailed analysis, will help us to precisely identify the real complexity of all businesses, we are open to dialogue with social partners and here I call both trade unions and employers, above all to find a solution to the problems that have been accumulated for years and which have resulted in certain illogicalities. Plus, a personal deduction as an untaxable part of income will be raised from 3800 to 4000 kuna. I am also announcing consultations with the social partners and a further significant increase in the minimum wage. As for pensions, the government has adopted a pension reform that has been delayed for years to ensure the sustainability of the pension system that would guarantee a continued increase in pensions. We must be aware that 24 billion kunas of the necessary 41 billion kuna are being covered from the contributions, 15% of the state budget goes to pensions rather than to an increase in salaries or to an additional tax cut of even a third of VAT. The ageing population needs budgets to pay pensions are increasing year by year, and it is our duty to find sustainable solutions in order for our children to have the right to retire. With the already mentioned increase in the average pension by 12%, by amendments to the law as of 1 July, the lowest pensions by 255,000 pensioners increased by 3%, which is 15% in 3 years. In addition, we have expanded the circle of pensioners who are working and receiving pensions and 14 000 of them are using the possibility of working part-time while receiving a pension. Since 2019, we have also introduced a category of extra internship for all mothers and adoptive mothers of 6 months. for each child, 2% and an increase in pensions for every child that we respected our mothers, women except for working and raising children, and on top of that, they often have fewer salaries. We have also been faced with numerous residual problems of the Croatian economic transition for the past 3 years. We're only five months. After coming to power were in a situation that we must prevent the potential collapse of the entire Croatian economy and our financial system as well as the loss of many jobs. It is the Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in companies of systemic importance, which has been recognised in the meantime as one of the EU member states' laws, protected Croatian interests, preserved jobs, made a structural change that will ultimately remain one of the government's positive legacy of work with what we didn't plan. This success is also recognised in international professional circles that deal with restructuring more than in Croatia. We have also faced problems in Uljanic, May 3rd, it is about accumulated problems from the past decades and the shipyards, as we know, functioned in the largest work with more than 30 billion kuna of state aid during that period. Our goal is to survive Croatian shipbuilding but on market principles through a model that will enable sustainable business and production and preserve jobs. You see how many steps we have taken with responsibility and care when it comes to May 3rd and cooperation with the current administration. Similar plans are being made when it comes to the Oilman. We have also found a solution for the successful recapitalisation and privatisation of Petrochemy, which today operates and is being restructured. At the same time, we also work for the process of recapitalisation of Croatia Airlines because Croatia needs a national carrier as a tourist country. When it comes to the business environment, we are aware that competitiveness, investment, innovation and digitisation processes that only guarantee success in the modern world. Competitive entrepreneurship and innovation are the key to economic growth, which is rarely limited by excessive administration and ineffectiveness of public administration. So through the implementation of our programme, we have implemented measures from three action plans for discharging an economy worth 2.7 billion kuna. In the area of public procurement through improvement of regulation, we have facilitated business, introduced greater flexibility and transparency, cheapened the process, increased real security and ensured a more quality competition. We will amend and supplement the rules relating to public procurement to digitise and speed up the appeal process. We formed the State Inspectorate, ensured better coordination and a reduction of the number of inspections. We also amended the Law on crafts and thus improved the system of education on the principle of dual education. Investments are one of the key leverages of the country's development. From the beginning of 2017 to the middle of this year, a billion and 800 million euros of direct foreign investment were attracted in Croatia. We have improved the rules governing the investment incentive system and the conditions for the implementation of large strategic projects. We plan to increase the investment of pension funds. They manage 100 billion kunas. We want them to be involved in the privatisation of public and state-owned enterprises and invest in infrastructure projects, thus increasing the transparency and efficiency of the business of state-owned enterprises, contributing to the development of the capital market and thus affecting pension funds. We plan to step up the sale of shares and shares of state-owned companies that are 373 active, which would allow new investments and growth of the preconditions for the productivity of these companies. So far, a competition for 30 companies has been launched. The policy of even regional development is at the heart of this government's programme. To this end, we financed almost 2,000 important projects, municipal, social and economic infrastructures across Croatia with 574 million kuna. For the past three years, we have helped the counties, cities and municipalities finance their share of nearly 800 projects co-financed by European funds. Since January, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the Law on assisted areas of the framework for strengthening the competitiveness of these areas and we are investing 420 million kunas. A new Law on Islands has been adopted, the Law on the Development of the City of Vukovar is in preparation and needs special measures on economic recovery and demographic revitalisation. When it comes to European funds, we have significantly increased the use of European funds, they are a cornerstone of Croatia's development, representing 80% of all public investment. For the period from 2014 to 2020, we have 80 billion kuna, which is more than the value of all the highways built than the independence costing 62 billion kuna. In the first 3 years of membership before the term of office of this Government, tenders for only 1/4 funds have been announced. It's agreed to 9 and paid less than 3. Today's tenders are scheduled for the entire allocation, 100%, it's agreed 76, paid 27, and 22 billion kuna is the total amount of what's already been paid. That's six Peles Bridges worth to you. By the end of the year, we should reach 85% of the contracted funds, or over 9 billion euros or nearly 68 billion kuna. In the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem", we channel 19 billion kuna for five Slavonian counties, already agreed more than half, paid 4 billion kuna. We have corrected the existing unfavourable division of statistical regions that restricts the development of certain parts of Croatia, which will apply since 2021. A new division of four in the development sense of the homogeneous region of Panonska, North, Adriatic and City of Zagreb will allow better economic support in Croatia and better use of European funds instead of today. So far, the government has provided local and regional self-government support for 788 projects through co-financing of projects. We connect Croatia with significant investments in transport infrastructure. Since the start of the mandate, we have invested around 20 billion kuna in a transport portfolio of which 14 billion kuna is financed by European funds and different ones. We connect our own territory, connecting South Croatia with the rest of the infrastructure in Croatia is a project that will remain a permanent achievement of national interest. Just a few days ago, contracts were signed to build access roads. We have completed the first phase of restructuring and restructuring of the debt of the entire cesar sector, saving 50m euros annually. We have completed important infrastructure projects, such as reconstruction and construction of Split Airport, the construction of the Zagreb coast at the port of Rijeka, the new Gaženica airport terminal in Zadar, which was declared one of the best cruise destinations, we have completed the long-awaited construction of the Kopno-Ciovo bridge, the bridge at Svilaj na Savi, we have started building the bridge near Gradiška, it is working to complete the preparation of the project Corridor 5C in Baranja. Over the past three years, we have invested nearly 700 million kunas in the reconstruction of small island and coastal ports, so much has not been invested in this area since Austria-Hungarian times. We're modernizing the rail infrastructure that we predicted 3.5 billion kuna by 2030. We get buses for public urban transport in numerous cities to increase the quality of citizens. One of the key reform processes is digitisation which is a way to transform among other public administrations. The Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society plays a special role, along with the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Economy dominantly. Project Center of shared services worth 360 million kunas has been launched, bringing together all electronic services in one place and 300 institutions in so-called. The state cloud, and citizens and businesses will receive cheaper, faster and better quality services. With the adoption of the National Broadband Cohesion Infrastructure Programme, we have laid the foundations for Croatia's integration into the EU's single digital market and its competitiveness. We were on the DES Index 24th, and now in 2019 we are in 20th place in front of Slovakia, Cyprus, Hungary, Italy and Poland. The number of eGovernment users in Croatia is above the European average, which is a confirmation that we are working in a good direction. Tourism, not only contributes to the recognition and branding of Croatia and makes up almost a fifth of Croatia's GDP in three years, has increased the number of overnight stays by 16%, the number of arrivals by 20% and revenues by 17%. We continue this year with record results, more than 19 million arrivals for now over 108 million overnights, income of around 12 billion euros. This means that over the past two years, tourism revenues have increased again by 17%. In this year, we expect over a billion euros in investment, which is an increase of 55% in three years. We have progressed five places and reached 27th place according to the World Economic Forum Competitiveness Index. By modernising airports, we also associate the role of the national air company and the development of Croatian tourism. We have amended five tourism laws that have not been changed more seriously for decades and adapted them to modern tourist trends. The law also defined health tourism for the first time. Since January, we have introduced a CRO card that will encourage domestic tourism consumption and enable employers to reward their employees. In the context of the fight against climate change, environmental protection and natural resources, as well as the transition to renewable energy sources today have become first-class issues which are a challenge for society as a whole, but also a great opportunity for the economy. We have therefore implemented a reform of the water-communal sector for better management of water resources. So far, 45 grant contracts have been signed for water-communal projects worth 18.5 billion kuna. We have also funded the waste management system in European funds. The European funds co-financed the construction of 143 recycling yards, the contracted rehabilitation of 23 landfills. We will soon send a proposal to the Croatian Parliament for the Energy Development Strategy by 2030 with a view to 2050. Analysis shows that the implementation of measures in the strategy would boost the growth of all the most important macroeconomic indicators in Croatia. However, I would like to point out that the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption is 27%, with Croatia already exceeding the 20% target set by the Union for 2020. In parallel, given our dependence on gas supply, we launched a strategic LNG terminal project on the island of Krk to ensure energy independence. The project received 101m euros from European funds. In the area of construction, we facilitate housing, we invest in energy efficiency of buildings, more than 8300 apartments were built from the incentive housing programme, we plan to build new 1,000 apartments by 2021, we enable the resolution of the housing issue through a wider circle of citizens who buy apartments on the free market, and the interest rate on public funds is reduced from 2% to 3%. It is possible to buy apartments for persons with disabilities, doctors, teachers, scientists, cultural workers, we have created a more efficient and faster system of issuing building and use permits, but also construction itself. We have secured EUR 311 million for the energy reconstruction of public and residential buildings, we are rebuilding 1300 hospitals, schools, kindergartens and more residential buildings. This includes 16 000 households and 70,000 pupils and children. In agriculture which is an important component of our economy and the preservation of the Croatian village, we have implemented measures aimed at stopping the drop in agricultural production, increasing its volume and protecting the income of farmers. The number of agricultural holdings has increased by 7,000, and at the same time we are generationally restoring Croatian agriculture. Today we have more than 22,000 young farmers who account for 13% of the total number of farmers, which is 2 times more than in the EU where the average is 6%. In our mandate, young farmers agreed five times more projects than during the previous two governments. It is negotiated in the area of competitiveness of Croatian farmers and fishermen 13.1 billion kuna, and 7.5 billion kuna is paid. We also increased the area of agricultural land and eco-agricultural land, demining over 6000 hectares of agricultural land, co-financed the acquisition of state-of-the-art fishing control and control equipment, enabling the control and control of our entire territorial sea, as well as the ZERP. In the last 3 years. 6 times more fishing money has been withdrawn than before, 2000 projects for 1.4 billion kuna, modernized and equipped 6 fishing ports and landing sites. When it comes to education and science which is the key to personal, economic and social development and are of particular national interest, we increased our expenditure on science and education in 3.g. our term of office for nearly 3 billion kuna, of which 2 billion kuna went for the property rights of employees, the curricular reform since this school year was introduced into primary and secondary schools, in 1st and 5th, in 7th p.m., stem subjects and in 1.r. High school. We have brought 40 new curriculas that will enable our students to acquire basic competences for lifelong learning by applying knowledge, skills and attitudes. I stress, they are brought by consensus, which is for our society a achievement that needs to be underlined. We have allocated an additional EUR 40 million to the e-school project, and we have invested more than 68 million kuna in the purchase of the equipment of radioactive materials and other aids in primary and secondary schools. We have improved vocational education by providing professional schools with billions of kuna, 25 vocational schools have become regional centres of competence, which also means new equipment, more practice and earlier entry of students into the world of work. We have established 30 scientific centres of excellence for which 370 million kunas have been allocated. Ensure a billion kuna for scientific equipment and infrastructure, which is the largest equipment of Croatian science in the last 15 years. In the area of culture, our continuing tasks are to cultivate our cultural identity, protect heritage, support for creation and creative industries, promote culture and art in the country and the world, and international cooperation. We have increased the budget of the Ministry of Culture, which is now almost 1% of the state budget, adopted 5 laws in the field of culture, included in the Law on Audiovisual Activities and Video Games as a fast-growing industry in the Republic of Croatia. We adapt to digital time and digitise archival construction and cultural heritage with the law on museums and archives and archive materials. The third area I want to talk about is protection of family and solidarity and justice. The family is the most important unit and the foundation of Croatian society, so family and individual, especially sensitive, which is why we pay special attention to family and individual particularly sensitive members in our activities. In the Republic of Croatia there are negative demographic trends characteristic of a large number of European countries, the Croatian population of old, we are faced with negative phenomena of this process by including emigration, especially of young people. We are aware that with our policy we must reconcile the unconstitutional mobility of our people and the fact that without humans there is no progress, no development. That's why we continued and intensified our activities at the demographic restoration. With demographic measures, we managed to achieve positive trends in demographic movements, in 2018. There were 417 children born more than a year ago, and natural growth increased by 927. From April 1st next year, the next year's parental compensation for the other six months for employees and self-employed will increase to 5,600,00 kn which is almost 3,000,00 kn more than before 3.g. when that amount was £2.600,00. We expect that by this measure more than 60% of parents will keep their full net salary. We have modified the income price for extras for children from 50% of the budget base to 70% of the budget base, allowing the number of users to be expanded. We pay particular attention to harmonising the family and business lives of parents, building or restoring more than 500 kindergartens throughout the Republic of Croatia, which is unprecedented in our history. Employment of 836 workers has enabled the two-way work of as many as 96 kindergartens. When it comes to young people who are particularly important to us for the development of society, I would like to repeat that, with the upcoming tax changes, we are cutting income tax for under the age of 25, and we are halving it for those up to 30, we encourage a traineeship for the entry of young people into the labour market, with the gradual abolition of vocational training without a working relationship. We're constantly raising student standards. We increased the non-taxable part for student work to 60 thousand 600 kuna per year, increased the minimum rate, made it possible for students to contract in November. We are constantly increasing the number of socio-economic and STEM scholarships and with more than 1.2 billion kuna we are renewing and building dormitories and infrastructure. Addressing the housing issue is one of the most important issues of young families, the government has decided to help young families. So far, with the help of this measure, more than 5 thousand 300 families have secured their home and are especially happy that more than 850 children have been born in these families. Over 4000 200 new requests were received this year, showing exceptional interest in this measure. Protecting against domestic violence, protecting women and children of the most common victims of domestic violence, the phenomenon that our society has to fight most strongly is also one of our priorities. We have witnessed the terrible crimes that took place this year and this has shown that we have been quite right in our efforts to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family. We also all see that the fears that have been propagated have not been established, on the contrary, we have heard concerns and an interpretative statement that is part of our legal order, all these fears and chills. The number of reports of domestic violence has increased by 88% compared to the previous year. That suggests that something's changing, points to the courage of the victims. For the work of a shelter for victims of violence in the last three years, we've singled out 23 million kunas, we've launched a shelter in six counties where they've never been before. We signed an agreement on inter-resorial cooperation in preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. Establish national and county teams to prevent the fight against violence against women and domestic violence. We have established cooperation with civil society organisations and civil initiatives whose representatives were even involved in the working groups of the Ministry of Justice. Amendments to the Penal Code, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, the Law on Criminal Procedure passed the procedure of public consultation and go to the Government and will be sent to the Croatian Parliament. With these changes, we prescribe qualified forms of criminal acts towards a close person and extend the definition of an official person. In addition, we remove in the Criminal Procedure Act the shortcomings observed in practice in concrete cases and allow for faster processing of perpetrators of criminal acts of violence and better protection of victims' rights. In connection with a case that took place in Zadar and in which the victim is a minor, we strongly condemn such violence and, in particular, crimes against sexual freedom to start against minors. The County State Attorney's Office in Zadar has appealed to the decision of the County Court in Zadar and the Ministry of Justice will, as you have heard with special care, monitor the further course of criminal proceedings and decisions taken in this case. In terms of health care, given that this is our topic for the afternoon, you will allow us to talk about it much wider during the afternoon, but what I want to say here is that our goal is to provide a financially sustainable health system that will give citizens health care and guarantee accessible and quality health care. We even invested, i.e. we agreed 2.2 billion kuna of European health funds projects, restructured and rationalised costs, implemented functional integration of 12 hospitals, functional integration model for emergency service activities, at all levels of health activities. We're setting up a maritime medical service for transport to specialized ships. It is also working on a project of the central control system and e-ordering. More than 24,000 patients were ordered through the priority waiting lists we have introduced for emergency treatment-seeking diseases in 2018. We've equipped 14 hospitals to improve medical services in daily hospitals, run a series of capital investments, and I'll only mention some. KBC Rijeka, the construction of Pula General Hospital, is planned to build a national children's hospital in Zagreb. We doubled the amount of funds for particularly expensive drugs. It now amounts to 1.4 billion kuna, which is 1% of the state budget for particularly expensive medicines, it's important to know that. We showed concern for doctors by signing a collective contract supplement, as you have seen, and based on today's news, true information about the pay gap. When it comes to sports, an important segment of Croatian society, we have brought the first strategic document in the field of sports, which is the National Programme for 2019, 2026, increased investment in our mandate through the Central State Sport Office by more than 100 million kuna. We also take care of the inclusion in the sport of people with disabilities. In terms of social care, we unfortunately had a murder that took place in Djakova this year, so I said we would introduce official status and strengthen the insurance measures. Through European funds we have provided for the most needed school meal for more than 32 thousand students in 467 schools in 18 counties. More than 200 thousand of the most needed people received food aids from them are 29% older and powerless. When it comes to people with disabilities and our citizens with disabilities is half a million. We take care of people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, we have increased their personal disability and extras for help and care. The increase from 1250 to 1500 kuna and the full-scale allowance is now 600 kuna, in a reduced 420, so the compensation is increased by 20%. Funding personal assistant services since 2017, we have allocated 355 million kuna. Currently, 2,000 users use them. We're working on the social and working involvement of people with disabilities. When it comes to Croatian defenders, we are determined to protect the dignity of Croatian defenders, values and truths about the Homeland War, which is our moral duty because it would be a defeat of Croatia if we were not worthy of giving respect to those who gave the sacrifice for Croatian freedom. Therefore, in a number of activities, not only did we bring new Law on Croatian defenders and members of their families, we took care of 1,537 victims of the Homeland War, we provided preventive systematic checks to which more than 52,000 Croatian defenders joined, in the programme of visits by students of the eight classes of Karlovac, Knin, Pakrac, Okućani, Vukovar, more than 120,000 students and their followers participated. We have passed a unique Law on Missing Persons in the Homeland War that did not exist until our government. We believe that this will help to track down 1,891 missing persons from the Homeland War, with 1,480 being led missing, and 411 dead are not known to be buried. When it comes to war crimes, the processing and lighting of war crimes is the obligation of all authorities in the Republic of Croatia since they do not become obsolete. They need this for the sake of the State's Attorney's Office and the police and therefore they have special departments and special working groups dealing with this work, that's their job, they have to be independent and independent, but they need to contribute on the basis of their results to determine the truth and that war crimes perpetrators are being punished. When it comes to security, I want to give recognition to Croatian police officers, 20,000 who work day and night, intervene 750 times a day, 750 times a day. A third of Croatian police officers keep the Croatian border from illegal migration. Since the beginning of the year, 770 smugglers have been arrested, we are aware of the weight of police work, we have provided adequate resources, soon you will accept amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship to facilitate and acquire citizenship for members of Croatian people abroad and Croatian emigrants. The new more rigorous road safety law already shows a significant decline in the number of people killed in traffic. When it comes to Schengen, we have done our homework, and the fact that the European Commission will have on the agenda next week a communication recommending that Croatia joins the Schengen area confirms that we have also done well in the task of ensuring that this is in the interest of our security, and ultimately, by our conviction, it is in the interest of other EU members, especially when it comes to combating illegal migration. When it comes to the implementation of the EUR strategy, I want to repeat that our citizens are as many as 66% of the total savings in our citizens in the euro has never fallen below 66%. The share of loans in kunas with a currency clause in the euro has never fallen below 47%. Analysis of the benefits and costs of economics gives us the right to implement the strategy, we have adopted an action plan for the European Course Mechanism 2 in 6 areas, 19 measures on which 9 institutions work. In the area of defense, a few words. We continue to strengthen the Croatian army which is a guarantee of Croatian security, we have returned the army to Sinj, Vukovar, Ploče, Varazdin and Udbin, and by the end of the year to Pula. We have a national security strategy, a system of homeland security improved system against fire protection, where I give special recognition to Croatian firefighters and everyone else involved. We will also increase the material but also technical equipment of the Croatian army and we will continue to work on it. As far as foreign policy is concerned, I think I'm just going to refer to the strong international position that I was talking about right here a month ago, and in particular, in the end, I just want to say a few messages that are relevant to what is waiting for us. First, if we want to strengthen continued legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia, it must be one of the main priorities. Secondly, to increase investment because it is a lever of development. Third, take and continue the measures of demographic reconstruction and the return of evicted Croats. In this context, adopt the first national development strategy. Fourth, continue with the tax and administrative discharge of businessmen and citizens. Fifthly, develop energy, transport and digital infrastructure to enable Croatia to develop further. I invest in everything, in all areas, and I especially repeat it once more in the education that is the key to the Croatian future. And finally on track for achievements so far ahead of 30 anniversary of Croatian democracy 25th anniversary of the release strengthens both the international position and the reputation of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165636	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165637	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament under Article 248. I am looking for a break on behalf of the club MOST for the reason that we could hear today and therefore mourn the club's consultation on one political stability in which there is every few people walking across St. Marka blackmailing each other even publicly in front of cameras while almost half of the government has been replaced for reasons under the investigation of USKOK, I cannot call it political stability, I can call it the crisis and the government crisis. A successful pension reform has been discussed with which it boasted in Brussels that it would finally be demonized by the will of the people. It's about electoral reform, actually the only thing that happened was that you raised the county to a higher level of pashaluka. You made the mayor a politically irresponsible person because you made them "lex sheriff" immeasurable and then you gave them 200 jobs to do from the state administration without any analysis whatsoever. You're talking about education reform, the kind of educational reform you've brought in, it's led you to have strikes. We could also hear a variety of different promises for everything and everything, and even today at the presentation, remember the different promises, remember the promise that we will return it to the INA in our hands so that here now the new Minister of State Administration will say that this will not happen in this term of office of this government. What were we supposed to talk about today? My only question is, how long will the agony of this government and the murmuring of absolutely all citizens in the Republic of Croatia last? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165638	Comrade Petrov, you have the right of course to take a break but you can say all of this in your presentation that will take 20 minutes. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165639	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I'm also looking for a break for further consultations. Namely, this is where the Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic said one lie, not one, he said more of them, and he dedicated it to him from an hour to 30 seconds and it is a key topic for the Croatian state and it is a demographic policy. Namely, you said that 417 children were born more in 2018 than in the past, which is true, then you told one lie, which is that natural growth increased by 927 and that 927 people were born in Croatia in that year more than they died. It's a pure lie because it's only a reduced natural fall. That year, and I'm talking about 2018, he died more than he was born, 15 761 people. I'll repeat, 15,761 people and you can't talk about natural growth when we can only talk about natural decline. So during your term of office, more than 45,000 people died in Croatia than they were born. So we don't have natural growth, we have a natural decline, that's one term you have to adopt. Then you didn't mention a single word about a subject you had to say and it's the Constitutional Court's obligation. So, you've already had to bring in the procedure, put in the procedure and pass the Life Protection Act, you call it "the abortion law" and I'll give you a reminder here, I'll give you a book, it's Abby Johnson, the book is "Unplanned", the person has spoken, so maybe you should turn around, and then as a true Christian Democrats you'll have the courage to pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165640	Comrade Zekanovic, what are you doing now? Okay, okay, but this was, you asked for a break for the club's consultations, you held a debate and you all have the right to hold a hearing for 20 minutes, so I will, of course, approve a break because it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So we'll continue at 11 o'clock and 50 minutes, 12 clubs signed up for 20 minutes, it'll take a long time, thank you. ANNOUNCEMENT IN 11.40 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:55 A.M.]] First I open the debate, first it's the SDP's Club of Representatives and respected counterpart Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165642	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. At the beginning of my address on the report on the work of this government, the most important question we all have to ask ourselves is what kind of Croatia we live in today and how citizens live today. Today in Croatia, 50,000 people work for minimum wage, a huge number of employees work and do not receive salaries, and when that number is increased by those who spend most of the year on sick leave or those who work part-time, there are more than 200 thousand people who receive less than minimum wage, even over a million people work for a salary less than average salary. The vast majority of workers can't live with dignity after retirement. Many people don't have a roof over their heads, they don't have to pay directors, they don't have to pay rent, over a million lives on the edge of poverty. More than half of that number are pensioners who worked their whole lives so that today some of them would dig through garbage cans, who worked their whole lives so that today they couldn't buy a bag of candy to their grandchildren, who worked their whole lives if they didn't have a little better meal or a warm coat or shoes that worked their whole lives so they didn't have to direct it. Yeah, they've worked their whole lives so today they don't have adequate, quality health care, and the health care situation is in complete collapse. Unfortunately, we witness almost daily affairs in the health system. Large debts, drug shortages, long waiting lists, low wages, the departure of doctors and nurses, while on the other hand there is a silent privatisation of health care because lovers are forced to seek salvation in private. Because of the general climate in society and small wages, many young, working - able people leave our country, mass eviction. In the term of this government in Croatia, it has fled to the main, regardless of even 150 thousand people in employment, which today is an irreparable loss for Croatia on the labour market, and the consequences will unfortunately continue to be felt for a long time. And at the same time you're boasting that you've reduced unemployment, that you've increased employment, and the truth is, it's actually about people moving out. The number of employees is dropping, industrial production is dropping, exports are dropping. What grows is consumption and imports. Citizens are in debt, raising short-term loans so they can survive. The business climate is getting worse, corruption is never higher, and investment is never less in the history of Croatia's newer. On the other hand, we have a government that instead of solving the problem of poverty, small wages and pensions, emigration has decided on the planned tactics of creating chaos and fostering nationalism to cover up all the impotence, inability and ignorance in solving the key problems of Croatian society. During that time, Croatia is sinking through all indices, by the index of freedom of the media, the global index of the rule of law, the index of human freedom, and by the index of perception of corruption. Croatia actually devours this same corruption. This summer you had to drive half your government away on suspicion of corruption. Corruption has become your own kind of trademark, that's how people perceive you, and also because of the affairs of appointment and employment of godparents and relatives. After all, that's what you really are. And in order to prevent such a government from ever happening to Croatia again, SDP will insist on implementing an anti-corruption plan that includes determining the origin of the property because in our country it must not become normal for a senior state official to have an expensive Mercedes parked in the yard or is the owner of expensive villas that he could not have earned from his debt salary, or for example. that in Croatia a professor, a member of the ruling party, has an alleged value of more than 5m euros in assets. How is that possible? It's not funny, Mr. Claric. We also want stricter control of public procurement so that it can't happen that the company that is the former mayor, today the former minister has already hired to do jobs for the county at the same time is building his family house. We will insist on the transparency of the financing of election campaigns so that they are not financed from bags of interested tycoons or from black funds, which we have witnessed in recent Croatian history. We will provide control of the property cards so that there will not be half the less depicted squares of expensive villas, or that this square will not be hidden behind the squares of the roaster, without talking about some not even reporting their properties. The Committee of Conflict of Interest will relieve the pressures of every kind, especially those that come from politicians and parties to which we witness daily today, especially by the Prime Minister. I will remind you that this commission has just been established and formed as a condition of Croatia's accession to the EU. My question is therefore what kind of message do we send to the EU before taking over the presidency from Croatia, and what message do you send to citizens when you do not respect the institutions of your own country? The destruction of institutions by the Prime Minister and his associates is merely evidence of the general destruction and chaos that exists in our country. And your fear of losing your chair is so great that you don't run away from any political corruption that you've secured most of the Parliament. That is why this House no longer represents the will of citizens because as many as 28 MPs have changed their political uniform and issued their voters in the Croatian Parliament. The ruling majority is holding only together and only interest, not the interest of citizens and citizens. They feel that injustice at every turn. And the greatest injustice they feel is when they see that the laws in this country are not equal for everyone. That rapists are free, that there is no punishment for thieves, that powerful and corrupt politicians have been avoiding the hand of justice for years. The SDP will therefore launch never more judicial reform because the judiciary must be more effective, courts more organised and court practice uniform, the law must be the same for all, the judiciary must be in the service of the law and not above the law and must be in the service of the citizens and not above the citizens as the Government. And what kind of government today claims to citizens that everything is great, that the economy is growing, that tourism is growing, that it is reducing the deficit, that it has taken 3 billion kuna from citizens more than value added tax, that budget revenues have risen by more than 5 billion kuna? If everything is so great, what are you afraid of, why don't you call the election? I'll remind you that you had money to raise your salary but that you wrongly directed that money to raise your salaries to the richest and to yourself. If you hadn't raised your salary to the richest and to yourself nurses, teachers, cops, firefighters would have had higher salaries than this year for an average of 700 kuna. By reducing VAT to fruits, vegetables, meat, food is not cheap, we all know that, but you have therefore made it possible to enrich the import lobby and the owners of the trade chains. Those 2 billion kunas could have been focused on an increase in wages. Our SDP's plan to increase salaries, i.e. by raising the non-taxable share of income from 3800 to 5000 kuna wages, would increase by more than 700 thousand employees in Croatia on average between 330 and 500 kuna per month, but you don't care, you don't want that. And again today you've fooled voters by who knows which time because you promised them you'd cut the VAT and nothing again. You sold the citizens cheap pulsism again, but we didn't expect anything from you, just false promises and corruption. But in the last three years, you can only boast of one real big, serious reform for the citizens of this country that I congratulate you on, it's a reform of the holiday and holiday date. And I am quite sure that citizens will live better because of this reform. And so every time you don't have an answer to the key problems of citizens, poverty, corruption, small wages and pensions, emigration, you deal with trivialities like changing the date of holidays and holidays. And people can't take it anymore, they can't look at this injustice, they can't look at this chaos that's spilling into almost all the spheres of our society, among other things, and that's why they're moving out. Unfortunately, people have also lost confidence in the institutions of our country, the DORH, the judiciary, the government, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, are all institutions that citizens no longer trust. And in order to restore the trust of the people in Croatia, we must restore confidence in the institution. You have ruined everything so much that Croatia needs a new start, Croatia needs order and trust. Order and trust are a prerequisite for growth, development and success. I still believe that Croatia is a country that has great potential and a chance for success but only if it is driven by people who are willing to serve it and not by those who are rich in it and those who rob it. We in the SDP know that the development vehicle is neither macroeconomic data nor quarterly statistics, nor the number of overnight tourists on the Adriatic. We know that the bearers of development and success are only human and only human, we just have to give them a chance, we have to become a society of equal odds. The path towards better will be difficult, we are aware in the SDP that we have a lot of work to do but we believe in our country and we believe in our people and we will not give up on an equal Croatia for all its citizens in whom everyone should have an equal chance of success. No matter who it is, where it is and what it is called, we believe in Croatia equal opportunities for everyone and not just for some. Croatia must change, Croatia must simply be a better country and therefore I invite you to call early elections and allow citizens to choose a better Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165643	The second is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165644	My colleagues and fellow MPs. Mr. Prime Minister, this debate and this beginning of the debate have received a bizarre sound. What are we talking about here? The government is shaking, the political partners in this government are arguing, publicly blackmailing themselves now in front of cameras, and here it's mostly discussing what was very little about what was waiting for us. So I'm going to use a historical quote to ask the president of this government, how long will you abuse the patience of the people? How long will this political agony last, this neglect? We were able to look at ourselves in Croatia all, we could see each other in the last 30 years and in the affairs and corruptions and conjectures and money that were carried around in bags and share influences with state companies and their shares, we could also testify to one of the Prime Ministers who eventually left without anyone knowing why he left, we can see him today in the courtrooms. We could also testify to one Prime Minister who preferred to lamentate in famous restaurants than in the government but never, ever had a situation like this. This government has been yelling for 3 years, yelling at how stable it is, how transparent it is, and half of the government has been replaced the other day, almost half of the government is due to a USKOK investigation. Unbelievable. Infinitely, as a broken gramophone repeats how transparent someone is and we actually need to draw ourselves so that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests is not respected and all the while repeating how stable something is, we can witness parallelly as some political partners run, walk through St. Mark, from the government to the Parliament and back to show how serious they are in their intentions, great serious players with their intentions. And this government, which is literally built up of hills, political trade, no stable government but literally a house of cards, spends all its energy to preserve itself in power, to preserve its chair. There's no citizen here. And then we can also testify since the hostages are citizens of such a government, instead of pension reform, tax-real reform, education-right reforms, judicial real reforms, there they were fair, they said it was a mini reform, we are witnessing state holidays reforms. Come on, and at least you'll do something in these four years, you'll reform the holidays. The beginning of this government's mandate was marked by the occult games, and when they thought it was all settled, that there would be a listener who would play exactly as it suits you, it happened that a part of the esteemed had become the blackmailers themselves, and then you should have spent the last few years dancing in balance between your party's right, coalition left, blackmailers, large salon philosophers and size, and a lot of time this Prime Minister spent on balance, to calming his players, defending those same people, so remember the man who changed because of his personal use of the amendment and urbanist plans, then our Prime Minister said that his integrity was unquestioned, that there was no speech at all about something bad, that he changed almost half of the government because of the investigation of the USOK, and that was not the key to be put in touch, that he would not be able to change his message. So much work in keeping your chairs in place of what should be your job and why the rest of the citizens have given you confidence for four years. It's been three years, you haven't done anything. Since this government is running its last share, then it's time to say a little more. I'll tell you first about the impression. When someone asks me about this government, the first picture, I believe so at least 3 million Croats is St. Marka, the run, your cameras have set up, now it's standard down in St. John's Square. Mark and just follow, just run from the government to the Parliament, back, big size, our dear fellow MPs, and then we can see one of our fellow buds and then run out of Vrdoljak and then from 365, reality show. You're in St. John's Square. Mark, you have a reality show, you've created this from this country a stable government. And every once in a while, someone runs out to show how serious his intentions are, for which they all have problems. But it's not the end. And even you yourself HDZ representatives create a reality show. We can remember our representative Djakic who comes out and says never with a colleague Pupovac and then a week, two days behind, begs HVIDRA members to give up his proposal by embarrassing themselves. You're on your own in this reality show you don't need anyone else, you're enough yourself. And that's the impression that this government will remain remembered for. A crisis of government, a waste of time. And instead of real and real reforms, strengthening institutions and greater transparency as we listened to from this Prime Minister at the beginning of the term of office, so I can say that you affirmed political trade as part of a public discourse. That's what you did. And you drew us all this in the last three months. Until when? I honestly, honestly ask you until when? A list of what you haven't done is a debt. So, in the health sector that we're going to talk about this afternoon, the European Commission has said enough. Health risks due to financial collapse are so high that it pointed out to you, hospital debts for medicines are measured in billions, health structure does not meet the needs of the population, health outcomes mostly below the EU average. That's the facts. That's what the European Commission told you this year. We offered you a clean start, but no, you decided to keep the Minister of Health who did nothing on this matter in these 3 years, give him one more trust, take responsibility for his inaction, you are ultimately responsible. You've actually affirmed a disturbance in the health sector. In the area of public administration, you have raised the counties to the level of pashaluka, made the mayors politically irresponsible because they cannot be replaced yet you have assigned them 200 jobs without any analysis and that is your reform. Now you see, given what's going on with the strikes, it's all gone, but don't be surprised. You promised salaries and the Law on the salaries of those same officers for three years, you didn't do anything. So how can you expect order in a system where there is no system or systematic access? The peace reform, the second thing, you boasted about Brussels, you recorded propaganda, a mini series, a message to be demonized by the will of the people. Now you've hidden that same minister in another ministry, no man. After that, you try to save your government by writing these proposals from the pension reform literally over the weekend, not making any analysis to avoid a referendum, but we'll discuss the referendums a little later. Your systems approach, this stable approach that you're talking about is actually being viewed at the Ministry of Labour, the third minister in three years, I have to admit very stable. Educational reform, educational reform, you've done so you've divided pills by schools, you've thought about everything, almost everything. You were thinking about curricula, learning outcomes, pills all you didn't think about were teachers, teachers and teachers. And why do you wonder when they now publicly tell you that the expectations of them are disproportionate to what you have given them in their hands to do this work? What are you surprised at? And yet it seems like a mockery, the other day you mock those teachers, teachers and teachers, half a year ago you're saying our state budget is in surplus 750 million kuna, you're making fun of them today. As far as reforming the electoral system itself is concerned, there is no need to waste words about it. You deleted the floor with 400,000 signatures of people who asked for a change of electoral system because you didn't frame it in three years, but I understand why. Whatever changes to the election law are made to me, it's clear to me that your partners in the government, these little partners will no longer pass the next election. You must not make any reform of the electoral system. And now, unfortunately, we will welcome new elections with such electoral legislation, with a riot in election units where such a system does not guarantee a system of personal responsibilities, but a literal proliferation of party arrestism and negative selection. And the state of demographics is a special song, and we could hear you boasting about it here, and I'll tell you one thing. Well, you didn't even get the demographic policy roof document in three years. You promised a national demographic strategy. He's gone, and what we need to talk about, we may need to talk about the EUR 1,000 you've been paying or intending to pay. Nothing. About devising maternity benefits or giving each woman a full salary while she's on maternity leave. It was all your pre-election program. Nothing. So nothing's gonna happen. People are leaving, and this year how unsuccessful your measures are, in the first nine months of this year, never fewer children were born in Croatia. These are your results, never less, and you're talking about demographic revitalization. Of course there are other unfulfilled promises of the type of return INE, remember I asked 2018, at the beginning of 2018 what was happening with this, the Prime Minister said I had chosen consultants. You chose consultants for a year and a half to say that those you chose could not do it, you will choose others, and one day we could hear from the Minister of State Property that this government would not return in this mandate to the INA. So what are we gonna talk about? About your promises today that you made during your growth exposure pay when you don't keep absolutely no promises because in you the promise lasts one day. On the reform of the judiciary and the judiciary sector, I have heard that you are boasting about the growth of the Republic of Croatia in the Competitiveness Index, you may have looked at the respected president where the Republic of Croatia is on that index when it looks at the judiciary and settle disputes, the efficiency of dispute resolution, of 141 world economies, the Republic of Croatia is in 140 places, the last in the world, the Republic of Croatia is the last in the world, well look at what you boast, you are so successful. And the moment you said you were implementing the reform, we could see that you were screaming from the front page of the judge's property card, where, where they disappeared, they were gone, they were gone for a year, another promise you didn't last. The tax round of reform has been made so that you've done us with the pay phone how we'll feel that absolutely everything you're going to reduce taxes on certain products and food is caused by a reduction in the price of these products, so I don't know if you're living in a parallel universe, these same products that you've been saying are going to shrink, the prices of these products have increased, and you've thrown your entrepreneurs into despair because right now you can't stand the VAT level, and today we can hear that there won't be another one of your pre-election promises, you won't be able to reduce the VAT as well, so you'll pay higher wages, and I'll tell you this and this, today the RH has reached the level of the RH before the recession, that we've had a lower VAT, paid everything, and today you've got a 3% higher VAT, you've had a deficit for several years in a row, and you've been missing money, so much of what you're talking to do with the new industrial productions. Of course, by wanting to solve your allusions from the government, you've sent us these illusions to HS as if we don't have enough illusions here and thank you for that, it's also happened in these six months. And as for the waste management sector, it's somewhere between the absurd and the disaster, it can be seen from the decision of the Ministry of Environmental Protection on the closure of the dump and the resolution of the State Inspectorate in which one city is ordered to take over waste from a city 100 km away without you building a network of sorters, composts, without making a healthy alternative, that's your solution, bravo. And what should I tell you after all? The government that is made up of political trade, the government that looms in the affairs of its members, which puts party interests ahead of the state and the people, which is fighting, fears the referendum, which fears the will of the people and the direct decision of the people, which fears new elections, so sometimes it is surreal to listen to how bad the elections would be for the Republic, not the elections would be great for the Republic, because this walk that we are witnessing in HS the last 3 years, this shame, that shame, on the political square with reality show it would not be that you are not afraid of so much choice and losing your chair, the problems don't begin with the crisis, the problems begin when you solve your crises behind closed doors with very expensive compromises and when you run from the incense from the will of the people and from the referendums and from the elections. I'm just asking you in the end what you're going to do, for as long as it lasts agony, until it takes your neglect and murmuring absolutely. Everyone in the Republic of [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165645	Let's go to the third debate now, it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165646	I would like to thank Mr. President HS, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I would like to congratulate you on the opening statement to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in which he has shown, presented, exposed, reached and everything the Government has done in its 2016 term of office. The only question that may be raised after the annual report by the Prime Minister here at HS is whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia live better in 2019 today. in October than they lived in 2016 when this government was appointed. It is the only real rating we can determine according to the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And in order to be able to assess the work of the government, living citizens better today or 3 years ago than the impression that Mr Bernardić and Mr Petrov are trying to convince in this assembly, much more, much more believe, and I give faith to the data that they speak, whether it's international financial institutions, whether it's the State Statistics Office, whether it's the data run by state bodies. So your impression may be what it is, but I say and the citizens have a lot more faith in those indicators they get from the relevant institutions and whether their salary, their standard today is better than it was 3 years ago. After a speech by the Prime Minister, in which he expressed everything he had done and even more when he announced what we would do next year, and when it comes to the government's relationship as an employer to his employees and these are state and public servants and deputies where a 6% salary increase has been announced, where, in addition to that, an increase in personal deduction from 3800 to 4000 kuna seems to me that the prepared speeches of Mr Bernardic and Mr Petrov have been thrown away and are then quite mixed, I would say they came under such an impression here in the Assembly with their exhibits which are obviously the result of the ignorance or inability to respond to what the Prime Minister announced for the next year in which the salaries will be significantly increased. And when we talk about an increase in salary so I don't get it out of my mind later, then I want to make it clear that the government as an employer, through an increase in the basics of all employees, so it increased the salary of 11.5% by building up the base. But we forget, or deliberately, the fact that through three rounds of tax reform, especially through an increase in personal deduction, that especially through changes in income rates, this salary, for example, if we are now talking about state and public servants and tenants grew on average 17%, 17%, so if we add this announcement that we just heard before, then the state as an employer, according to its employees, will increase the salary in what I say includes an increase in the basic but also a tax reform of about 22%, about 22%. So that's enough to say, that information about the 22% salary increase in the government's mandate, which is more than three governments before that, is best talked about the success, the ability to reform capacity, the knowledge of this government. I say, much more than our opposition friends here will, based on their impression, tell us about the state of the country based on their sighting of the party-colored. The data I have read these days and which speaks of GDP per capita in Croatia, which is 10 thousand and 800 euros on 1 January 2016 and today is 12 thousand and 900, so around 21% of GDP per capita is a basic data that says that today lives in Croatia compared to 2016. The Prime Minister also presented a number of data when it comes to salary increases in Croatia, so not among these 240 thousand civil servants and tenants, but including the whole real sector, so all employees in Croatia. And let me put it this way, about a million and 600 or 165 thousand more employees today than when this government took responsibility for Croatia's leadership. Or to make it even more plastic, 137 a day are new workers in the work system in Croatia, 137 a day. During the government of Zoran Milanovic, the SDP 26 daily lost their jobs and then we were at the unemployment rate of 17, 18%, today it is below 9%. Thus, the data that 137 workers are employed daily in Croatia also talk about the government's reform capacity, the care of the Croatian government and its success. When we talk about increasing pensions by 11%, about increasing the minimum wage of 20%, then with that language and these indicators we can talk about the work of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. What is important and what the president pointed out, I would point out, because I was a member of the governments that had growth and of 4.5.5%, so I participated in the work of the government when they had growth of 4.5.5%, but in these governments, we were able to build highways first of all, to build capital transport infrastructure significantly, and that way we invested primarily in public infrastructure which, in public investments that were then extremely fast and largely built. So when I compare this to today's growth of about 3% and this should be said above the EU average, the growth of Croatia's GDP above the EU average is based solely on its own knowledge, on its own abilities, on its own strengths. So, without borrowing and in particular I would single out information that is very important to highlight because it speaks about the importance of Croatia's EU membership, and this data says that over 80% of all investments in Croatia, all public investment in Croatia is based on the European Funds' resources. And in order to implement these 80% of public investment in Croatia through the basis of the European Funds, it was necessary to speed up the procedures, in order to agree as quickly as possible, in order to carry out these works, there and the public investments financed by EU funds and from EUR 11.7 billion, how much the financial envelope in the Republic of Croatia for this financial period is 100% in the competition, 78% agreed and now as these works are made, there is a payment and thus further encourages employment and stimulates growth of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. The president was also talking about reforms in Croatia. The government's reform capacity. He mentioned a number of reforms and, from, and health and tax reform he missed to say a few words about me a very important reform that in his name is not a reform, but in its implementation, he obtained excellent results on the entire Croatian economy. This reform, in my opinion, has allowed us to continue with the great tourist seasons, to introduce in Croatia a order that was not previously in relation to the believers and debtors, which is the reform of Agrokor. We have not heard about this here, but when the Law on the Extraordinary Management of Commercial Companies was adopted in 2017, relations in the Croatian economy changed significantly afterwards. Ask all employers, ask all creditors if payment deadlines are better today than before the Emergency Administration Act was passed, is it better today, how does the debtor's relationship with the believer today, so you will see that today is in Croatia and how the payment deadlines have changed, I don't know where, I have to say, where does this data come from to SDP President Davor Bernardić that in Croatia a large number of employees do not receive the salary. I would be interested in this information to tell me how much it is, how many legal entities it is, how many companies it is and how many employees it is, and not how much it's spread from this pay phone, the fact that a large number of Croatian workers are not getting paid when I know that it's precisely because order has been introduced, which in this relationship between the employer and the worker, between the creditors and the debtors has changed deeply. And this fact that by adopting the Law on Extraordinary Administration, we have preserved the large 30,000 jobs in Croatia, that we have preserved about 150,000 jobs in companies that were co-operatives or that co-operated with Agrokora. The fact that there are 30,000 employees left in the labour system in Croatia and that this is not a single lip costing state officials enough to speak about the quality and value of this Law on extraordinary management in companies of systemic importance, and we also know how many days we have heard insults, slanders, accusations that this law is a disaster that it will be transferred, that it will cost more than 60 billion kunas the state budget, and then taxpayers. At the end of that, not that it was nothing, but just the other way around, you know that it was both signed and settled and what was later made with that law. Not to mention the road sector reform in the transport sector. But this reform best shows what we have already said many times here, which is that the work of this government is based on a triangle, a triangle of financial stabilisation that has been completely made, done. So, we never had a surplus in the state budget until before this government, and this surplus in the state budget is being implemented in a way that we relieved Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian citizens with more than 6.5 billion kuna compared to the state before 2017. So, at the same time, we are reducing the tax write-off, reducing the expenditure, which is also subordinate to the revenues of the state budget, and on the other hand we are recording the surplus of the state budget, and in the year in which we were forced to pay over 4.5 billion guarantees for the Uljanik government due to the poor work of the SDP government. Therefore, this financial consolidation, the fiscal consolidation of the state budget, has enabled all of these macroeconomic indicators that the prime minister spoke of by some and I. And that financial consolidation made it possible to enter into all the reforms that we mentioned earlier, both in terms of pension and health care and in terms of the road sector that I was just about to tell you about, which is why I came back to this triangle of success. That through financial consolidation, through the fact that we have been reduced public debt we have been able to raise the loans that I mentioned earlier to build Croatia's transport infrastructure, that the commitments of the Republic of Croatia at an annual level have been reduced by more than 400 million kuna. That nothing else has been done in the road sector, the fact that we have made it possible through the collection of public finances to prevent the monetisation or privatisation of the Croatian roads that the SDP intended, but then the citizens stopped it with a referendum, not that we did not sell the highways, not that we did not rent them, not that they did not create the addition of the RH, but through the work, through the financial consolidation, we allowed this transport reform, the reform of the road sector at the annual level to be saved compared to what was previously nearly 400 million kuna. And unfortunately, unfortunately for the inability of the SDP government when we are in charge in 4 years, watch out for the head of the population of 17,500 kuna in the SDP's term in the 4th year. When you find out that we're in debt for nearly 78 billion kuna, then divide by the number of inhabitants, you'll see that it's 17,5 thousand kuna per capita. We have reduced this public debt before this government 85 or 6% today to 74%, which then leaves us with the possibility that we can further invest in the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, the amount previously secured in the Croatian state budget for public investment is now, as I said, relying on the European Funds' funds and thanks to the fact that we are the EU Member State in the most currently investing in these public investments, such as the construction of the Pelješka bridge, investment in a railway that has not been invested in for years, today over 2 billion euros is planned, and is investing and planning to invest in the railway in the coming years as one of the most qualitative modes of transport integration. So, all of this is done, which is exposed, and I'm not saying when it comes to social care, an increase in maternity benefits, etc., the construction of kindergartens and all the things that have been said best about the work of the government, and therefore I repeat, between what I hear, in which the opposition speaks primarily about the state of the Republic of Croatia and what can be very simply checked, what it is given to control, which can be measured, I have to say as an engineer of technical profession myself, I tend to evaluate someone's work based on, based on mathematical indicators, although everything is not, not all black white, although not all mathematics are in life, much better decided on the basis of exact data, but on someone's impression. And I'm going to say one more thing about the judiciary. Certainly, the judiciary is a reflection of the situation in Croatian society, whether it can be better or worse, it is up to us to decide, we have an item on this. We have heard how much has been resolved, how much less unsolved cases are in the Croatian judiciary, and we are still not satisfied because often there is one, one object which has been brought up in public by the storm, which is very much talked about, doing more damage to the Croatian judiciary than, rather than thousands of resolved cases, and neither am I, nor we in the HDZ Club are satisfied with what the Croatian judiciary is doing, but if we are the legislative authority or our colleagues on the other side of Mark's square executive power, the least we can do is to ensure that the change of legislation is made to facilitate the work of the judiciary, much more than on one individual case to talk about the overall state of Croatian justice because it is then the direct mixing of the legislative and executive authorities when it enters into an individual case in the work of the Croatian judiciary. And when we talk about the Croatian judiciary, it's interesting, we hear a lot of things here in this assembly, when a member of the HDZ is being opened up to reconnaissances or some kind of shop, reconnaissances, then HDZ is a criminal organization. When the same judiciary and his, or the state's attorney as an integral part of that judiciary doesn't run because there's no reason, there's no fact, against some HDZ member of the investigation, then he's, then he's HDZ's state's attorney. And what is worse, if the Croatian judiciary decides on the basis of the fact that it is against a certain HDZ member regardless of what function it has acted, does not raise a criminal application or be rejected when it comes to the opposition of the team, and the Croatian judiciary is criminal, it is a set, a mental set of the children of communism, whether it is spoken by our friends from the SDP or friends from the Most, if they are both prosecutors and judges today, and it is not going to go so, in the Republic of Croatia there is a judiciary, it can be better, but it is better this way than you would like, so I ask you to be much more careful here with this address and there is a label that you are trying to stick to us that this party and this side of the assembly is corrupt, you can hang a cat out of your tail because it is not going to decide, it will be decided by those who are in Croatia for the Croatian society, which is more than I am happy with the Croatian society, and I am happy with the Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165647	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. Dear colleague Maras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165648	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Actually, maybe you should give these five minutes to Mr. Bacic because what he just said, I'm sorry, two minutes, because what he just said...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165649	Tell your colleague about the reasons for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165650	...we're looking, we're looking for... For a break? This is a request for a break, Mr. Rainer...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165651	Please state your reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165652	...relax. ... Here's what I said. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165653	Comrade Reiner, please let your colleague speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165654	What Mr. Bacic has just said here, this amount of untruth and things that people don't feel every day. So here he was talking about, how the judiciary was excellent, here, he was talking about how people in the Republic of Croatia lived great, and why 150 000 people would move out of the Republic of Croatia, he was saying here that this wasn't the most corrupt government that the Republic of Croatia had, and 6 ministers went away two months ago, so they didn't leave because they were doing great, because they could explain the irregularities that the USKOK established and could justify what they were doing during their term in some other duties, so that's corruption by themselves, Mr. Bacic, people see it, 75% of people think that you were the worst government that the Republic has ever had. And one more thing, you asked your colleague Bernardic where he got his data from, so look at the FINA, 10,000 people are working, and he's not getting paid, the leaders of those companies were up until a month ago, the Oilman and 3. May, there are people who have not been paid, and there are still state-owned companies where people work, and they don't get paid, there's a huge amount of incompetence and corruption, but at this point I see the most fear in the eyes of Prime Minister Plenkovic's fear of elections, he wants to stick to his chair for a year and wants to avoid submitting accounts to Croatian citizens. He'll agree to whatever it takes to be the prime minister for another year. And to the mayor's eternal suspect in criminal acts and conjectures from the CNS, everyone will give in to another year's prime minister for fear That he doesn't lose his chair. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165655	... colleague Maras. Here you go, Comrade Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am asking for a 10-minute break in order to further discuss and highlight everything that has been done in the past 3 years of this government. Unfortunately for our opposition friends, first of all from the SDP which are obviously under, I still have the impression of what the Prime Minister put together here this morning, and I can't be surprised that this is the way they expected the strikes to roll in Croatian streets, so I still can't come to their senses. As far as fellow Maras is concerned, what citizens think about us and you are already talking about 10, it seems to me or 9 election cycles in a row, whenever it comes to national, whenever it comes to local level, and since the elections are ahead, you will see what citizens think about HDZ policy and what they think about opposition in a little over 2 months when we're going to re-election. And until then, if you mean anything to the polls by the Croatian agencies that question public opinion, you're still a fat stunt for HDZ, and believe me, until the election, you're going to be far behind. Therefore, I am sorry to hear that you, your envy, will not remove you from those positions, but in that way you are only still giving us the right to have the path that HDZ is leading the state properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165657	I thank my colleague Bačić. I'm setting a break to 13 o'clock and 5 minutes. It's 12.54 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13,08 HOURS]] On behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club and Democrats, respected counterpart Kreso Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165659	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Brkic, the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia, Mr. Plenkovic, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry that after the break Mr. Bacic didn't come back like most people didn't come back. I have to say before I look back at the report of the Prime Minister's work that listening to Mr. Plenkovic's hour was really getting warmer and warmer around my heart and around my soul, but when I heard Mr. Bacic then she dripped a tear in my eye. So it's like I was listening to the secretary of the municipal committee of the communist system out there from the golden '80s. If I were Mr. Plenkovic, I'd imagine when Mr. Bačić praised me, he passed all the systems and boasted that he was in Mr. Sanader's government and all those systems had failed in one way or another or were under a certain questionnaire. I think he can be a mean prophet for both this government and Mr. Plenkovic, so I would sort of, if I were you, Mr. Plenkovic, afraid that Mr. Bacic was defending me. But, well, let's look at this report, when the report first started, I thought that you were giving a report on the work of the opposition and opposition parties or a report on the work of Mr Zoran Milanović and the Government, which was 5, 6 years ago, that was what it looked like to me. To welcome an end when I thought it was a report from the Prime Ministers of Sweden, Norway, Iceland or Switzerland, it really looked like that. And then when I heard Mr. Bacic then I realized in principle the point, this wasn't, this was just a nominal report on the work of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, this was a report on the work of President Rh, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarović. In fact, she said in her inauguration speech that Croatia would be one of the richest countries in the world, and this report shows that this is the case today. We're the richest country in the world, one of the richest, not exactly at the top, but at the top, honey and milk flow. At our borders and in our offices, immigration offices have hundreds of thousands of requests from people from around the world of educated, educated people who want to leave their countries and come to live in the Kingdom of Croatia. Unfortunately, it is not and is far from anything Mr Plenkovic said in his report. He said he found a highly polarized society, now it's like something different. I'm already many years old, we're somewhere in the same generation, I don't remember ever having such divisions in Croatian society either, and that's what politics is for. It is the policy that promotes divisions, politics, primarily those of the ruling ones, that initiates the situation and the atmosphere that rarely seems to be from the '40s and not from 2019. We live deep buried and buried in our past, in our history, we haven't finished the battles in our heads since '41 or '45. We are the country in which even the youngest are, so students are divided by the ideological system but not from the ideology of the 21st century but from the ideology of the early 20th century. You said we were catching up with the countries of Eastern Europe, it's a shameful statement that we have to catch up with someone, with countries whom we have not been able to catch up with but who have been a few decades after development behind us, all honors Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Romania, Bulgaria, Albania. We're catching up with Bulgaria? Come on, please. I repeat again, we who are a little older think it is, in principle, a statement that should go tears on the eye but not this time of joy but tears of sadness that we catch a step with Bulgaria, Romania or Poland, shame. We protect minority rights, I would not look too much at that statement because it is a statement that has nothing to do with the situation in which Croatia is in 2019. The rights of all minorities and national, religious, sexual ones have never been more endangered even during black, red Communism, have not been so threatened by the issue of all kinds of minorities in society, in Croatian society. You were talking about progress in the judiciary, that it can't affect the independence of the judiciary. This is the one floscula, a mantra that repeats itself whenever there is no problem that is clearly in the Croatian judiciary. The Croatian judiciary proves every day from day to day, from news to news that it is at the bottom, that there is no responsibility, honor for exceptions, in this judicial system. If you had created a system in which one of the pillars of power is a judicial system as an independent first chosen political key, we all know that a good part of the judges and a good part of the people in the system are elected politically, that they are chosen by politics and that they do not even respond to that policy afterwards. So during communism it was better because politics chose judges, yes, but they responded to that policy, they responded to party secretaries etc. and today HDZ policy chooses them but they no longer respond to either HDZ or to anyone, become independent, become sacred cows, and then what happens happens happens. Yes, it must not affect the independence of the judiciary any other way than by amending the law. The laws need to be changed, it is an impact that the policy should have on the judiciary, changes to the laws that will provide for the drastic punishment of judges, they cannot be protected when they are doing things that we have been witnessing lately, from day to day practically, not to mention certain embarrassing cases that are setting aside not only the judiciary, it has long been paved in the eyes of Croatian citizens, but they are setting aside the whole system because, of course, in the perception of the public, there can be nothing different than, but it is the policy that is crucial to communicate, or key to the work of the judiciary and key to non-sanctioning embarrassing decisions from the judiciary. There was not a word about reforming that system, there was not a word about corruption, there was not a word about the origin of the property, so let's see the origin of the property of the judges, it was a variety of speeches about the origin of the property and about the law that HSS proposed, which SDP proposed tomorrow, the focus was on politicians, why not focus on judges, so let's see if there are any other reasons why judges make such decisions, some of which are really embarrassing and have nothing to do with it, whether someone is going to check that property, so there is an institution, you didn't speak of course, you didn't even talk about the conflict of interest, but in view of the latest developments I was expected and understandable, it's only not understood that one institution, and the government of the Republic of Croatia is the government is an institution, not respecting another state institution, and that was not the task that we had to be obliged to enter the EU and I don't know what message. Ha, you may like or not like certain decisions of certain bodies, but you must respect them as a legalist, as president of the government, as president of the HDZ, as a lawyer by profession. You were talking about continuing decentralisation, I really don't see it, it's my profession now. Government meetings on the ground, ten of them as long as you've maintained, are not decentralisation. Not even the tax reform with which you boast is not decentralisation, but it is in conflict with what you said about decentralisation, so when you said that tax reliefs were made, that income tax was reduced, etc., real estate tax, that's the incomes of the local administration, that is, by bringing in the Republic of Croatia, and not decentralisation, all the opposite of what you said about decentralisation, you denied or contradictory is what you talked about tax reform. On the halfed number of unemployed I would really not spend words, fortunately we entered the EU, fortunately the border are open and fortunately Croatian citizens who are able to take care and go to another labour market and it is not a problem, we all wanted this together and it is expected, only it is unexpected that no one will want to come to the Republic of Croatia, so neither do migrants from the Middle East want to come to us, but they just want to go to us, no one will come to us. And about foreign investments you've been saying that something's increased, I mean, it's impossible for foreign investors to attract more to any, any, any, now non-existent stimulations or decisions or, or, or, or, or other things that investors can attract. Namely, the investor will not come where there is no labour force, nor qualified, and in Croatia more or less unqualified, so it is impossible for a foreign investor to come to him for free, to free him of all taxes, to give him all free connections and another 10 years. that he does not have to pay any taxes to the state, he will not, for example, come to Gospic because there are not 1,000 workers that the investor needs. So that's where every story about foreign investment in water falls, and you can take all the measures you haven't brought in the past, and now you're bringing them in, put the cat on the tail because there are no people, the investor is looking for labour, and the workforce is gone. We who are the leaders of local administrations who are slightly better standing in the Republic of Croatia, who are slightly bounced from the average or are at the very top, know very well that in the last 2 or 3 g. come entrepreneurs, Croatian craftsmen, privates, to pray whether we know someone who would work, know the catering, guests in Dalmatia when it's season that there are no workers in the Republic, that they have to respect them outside and there's a problem because there's also this procedure of issuing work permits to foreigners in our helmet, we still foreigners who would come to work and charge the Croatian budget, to fill your budget from which you can then, from which you can raise wages as you have announced, which, of course, I welcome, so there is this conservativeism here, because we are afraid of foreign workers instead of opening up opportunities to work people here on jobs for which there are no more workers, because they simply went somewhere else or the demographic situation is so, such as it is. And when you talk about Lex Agrokor, you keep talking about something that's good. I hope you're in the last 2 years, 2.5. how long has it been since you managed to see what you have done with this law, that you are not protecting or saying that you have protected the state interests, is, not just Croatian state interests, but the state interests of Russia and America. In fact, Agrokor was created in a privatisation robbery, HDZ's privatisation robbery in the '90s, but in the meantime Agrokor was the one who somehow dragged the Croatian economy, and it was 100% owned by a Croatian citizen whatever he was about to do, today it is no longer. So you handed over a strategic, strategic company and you put it in the law, in the hands of strangers. And just look who owns the Agrokor today and then you'll see what you've done. I am convinced that they have talked you into it, that it is not you, Mr Plenkovic, but the people around you who have resorted to such a move, and I hope that you will soon see that this was the wrong move, and that it is not for the Republic of Croatia to have any use, but it has long-term damages, that strategically in Croatian agriculture, in the Croatian food industry, the Republic of Croatia will no longer have the right to vote in the future, but rather someone else will. And again about digitization, it's the same thing that's been going on for years and I'm going to remind you again of what I was saying a year ago in this similar speech, we're still Mr. Plenkovic, I repeat the sentence, we have a document called the birth certificate and it's worth six months. I'll remind you, without a birth certificate, you can't get a housekeeper without a housekeeper, you can't get a ID card. So, if you have a ID card, it is understood that you were born in Croatia, that you are a Croatian citizen, that you do not need a birth certificate, but despite your "digitization", this document is unfortunately still needed in Croatia. Well, at least put it away so I don't have to talk for a year or so, I'm talking about the birth certificate again or anyone else. It sucks, it really sucks, I hope you agree with that, it's not a prelude, it's just a little thing that may not mean much, but it means a lot because of that thousands of little things that make up a bunch of red tape in Croatia, because people who issue birth papers are basically bureaucrats who do nothing but reverse papers from one side to the other, for it gets paid and chokes easy communication, chokes the possibility of fast solving certain paperwork problems of Croatian citizens and insults sound logic and common sense of all the citizens of the Republic. The birth certificate in Croatia should not exist, especially as a 6-month-old document, it is insane. Agriculture and the protection of the village. And you talked about it, you boasted about the number of newly opened young people, or the OPGs of young farmers, and you forgot how many of them failed, you forgot how the story with the Croatian village was in the last 15 years, as it was a long time ago, we could leave in the '60s, in the '70s when the political mantra was industrializing the country when the practical population of the village was forced, thinking that the village would be forever the population tank because there will be families that have lots of children, which will then be crisscrossed by cities and of course will be enough to export, those times have passed. And it is not a problem that they have passed, we live, of course, we are part of Western Europe, we are part of a Europe where this demographic transition process has reached its certain legality, one of these legalitys is that there are no children and there are no measures to be fully open, which will result in the average Croatian family having five or more children. They are not to give a million euros, they will not have five children but to stop the eviction from the village that was definitely devastated, which was destroyed, for those in Slavonia now post-festum, do not forget that the Croatian village was first destroyed in Lica, in Gorski Kotar, on Croatian islands, in Croatia Zagorje, Bilogorija, Slavonia was the last to come but came. The Croatian village is destroyed, we are empty space. geostrategic cannot defend, you cannot defend empty space voluntarily. We have a situation with migrants in the biracial, or Cazin region. If 300 or 400,000 people get there, they'll run over to Zagreb, you know why? There's no one here. We've become empty space. And here, without a strategy, without the agreement of key political actors, political parties, not just one, with a strategy that will have a 20, 30-year term, we will do nothing, it is necessary for us to keep space because the space that is uninhabited is impossible to preserve. You already have examples in Croatia, you have inscriptions in certain media, in certain newspapers that in certain areas of Croatia Croatians become a minority or that young people among foreign citizens or members of other nationalities have already become a majority. So it will happen in Croatia but of course we do not want it in such an uncontrollable way. And that's where your whole story is tied up with the state's concern for the village. The main activity in the country, at least it was, I don't know now in the future whether they will be primary activities, primary activities are agriculture, hunting, fishing, etc., etc. So this is the basic activity of the Croatian rural area of the Croatian village. When borders were opened, when uncompetitive, cheap was released, often, often very often and most often unquality product as a competition for Croatian village products, the Croatian village began to fail. This should be done and there should be mechanisms for making the product from the Croatian rural space competitive on the domestic market and then, of course, counting on the European market that we are part of, but as a country, it is not enough to open up the OPGs, it is not enough to give billions of kuna incentives because it goes to the well, these incentives often go to "agricultural" who are based in cities, you know, which they often do not see and encourage take. I went there in the vicinity of Kutina, saw the plantations of organic nuts that none of us and the farmers would say is a nut if they didn't know about it. Billions went to that. Entrepreneurs who are members of your party, btw., who are registered in Zagreb. I've already welcomed and will again welcome the increase or announcement of salary increases to 6%, 2 plus 2 plus 2. I have to say hello, of course, and I'm just wondering why this decision didn't come before, which is why we've had to look at a fight like this in the ruling coalition and whose merit it is now because now it's to be expected that the HNS will say it's not their fault and we'll see what it's going to look like in the end, but here it doesn't seem like I'm just criticizing it. But in the end I have to end up with that it wasn't just criticism, in an hour again not one word of "we've made a mistake", not a word, it's impossible, it's statistically impossible if you're doing it for a year that you haven't made a mistake anywhere. It's always wrong and it's human error because the one who doesn't make mistakes doesn't work, does wrong. So try to find at least one thing you've done wrong, make it up if you really think you're wrong anywhere. There are no sinless people, and at least it can be in a policy where there are a thousand things, a thousand factors, a thousand entities that you can't influence. Well, since that's the case, if there's really no mistake, everything is ideal, January 5, 2020, we'll all see each other together in the election, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165660	Thank you. We move on to the next debate on behalf of IDS, PGS and RI, dear colleague Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165661	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The government's Annual Report could be said much in many ways depending on its approach. But as always in front of the IDS club, we will focus on content and be aware, not on pulsism, demagogy and realistically as an opposition in Parliament to try to point out things that need to be done better and make them better. It would be hypocritical to say that nothing is done, that nothing is right, that everything is bad, but even after three years of this government we do not see enough strategic thinking and enough determination. A system has not yet been established that knows what to do and how each individual has freedom, but also responsibility for his actions. A system that actually guarantees security, investment security, whether public or private, in business, in law enforcement equally to everyone. What is actually the impression that this is not an accident, on the contrary and far from the fact that this problem has come with this government, but also this government has failed to solve it. Moreover, with its frequent changes, the ministers themselves violate one continuity and bring insecurity. And the example that a quality system doesn't exist has a lot, so we'll just focus on a few of them. The first example is the announced reform system. We have to admit that we expected more, more courage, more determination, more visions, no less will and effort, but we don't think that desire is questionable. But we're missing a view of 10, 20 years in advance in which direction we're going, which industries are our bearers and economies for the next 20, 30 years, which numbers we need to reach, which are our strategic economic branches in the next period. Those that will develop in parallel with the system of science and education, those that will cause strategicly planned investments, those that will raise us to one higher level, we miss that. Because when there's no defined strategic direction or direction, anything else that's attached then gets stuck, fails, has no head or tail and isn't fully realized. We have an example of the so-called. reforms of the education system, reforms that should be one of the fundamentals of society's development, not only in social but in all directions. But reform involves complete changes in the system, a complete shift in thinking, as well as ensuring basic preconditions for its implementation. And the system has only changed partially, the distortions in thinking are based on individuals, not systematic, and the basic preconditions are not secured. It's enough to make one jir in rural parts of the country, somewhere unfortunately urban and look at what our schools look like, which is the speed of the Internet if they have it at all, what it looks like equipment is needed for teaching. Yeah, the question is, does building an entire education system cost money? Of course it costs, but if the goal is to have educated young people in the best world conditions and according to the latest world standards, people who are going to run processes ahead of their time then it's an investment with a return on investment and that's how it should be looked at. We're too small to fight quantities, our path must be quality. And we're already stuck on one purchase of textbooks and workbooks, and since the strikes have become everyday, it's obvious that we've literally fallen to the valorisation of the system and the ones that work in that system. And now we come to basic questions, have we set a goal where we want to be on Europe's economic map in the future? Tourism, okay, but it's the only thing you don't live on. Agriculture and food production, but agriculture is the strategic branch of the Croatian economy where our long-term agricultural strategy is because regardless of the freedom of the state market which loves and respects themselves plan and protect their agricultural production. They also do so on the preservation of traditional industries, such as shipbuilding, of course by adapting to modern production challenges. And we have a chance to read these days that Croatia has the biggest drop in industrial production in the EU. Modern industry, IT sector for many great opportunities for such a small country. In addition to the entrepreneurial incubators who built local and regional self-government and in which many started up companies, it is not seen that something came as a result of strategic planning. And so we could continue for a long time, but that's not the point, that's not the point of this debate. The goal was to point out things that we think are very important and will depend on the future of Croatia and its citizens. But also through this debate, the goal is to remind us of a burning problem where we expect the Istrian County and the state to take over part of their problems and responsibilities, it is about waste management in the Istrian County. With respect to the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, all EU waste disposal directives have been built by the Waste Management Centre, and have completely rescheduled the open dumps in almost all local self-government poor people, all in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia concerning the topics in question. Although the state has prescribed mechanical and biological technology for waste treatment and disposal through its bodies, it has not established a market for secondary raw materials including large waste and has not offered a long-term solution to the disposal of waste fuel. Therefore, from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I have seen that the Minister of Environmental Protection has been here before, we expect effective measures to establish the market for secondary raw materials and fuel disposal from waste. And from the Environmental Protection Fund, we expect the promised, agreed and agreed financial assistance to address the registered shortcomings at the Kastion Waste Management Centre that cause the spread of unpleasant smells, which creates concern for the locals, the extraordinary situation in summer and during the tourist season. We simply must not allow a new tourist season without establishing a quality, environmentally acceptable waste management system. I believe that you understand the negative consequences for Croatian tourism and the economy as a whole. And in the end, one of the colleagues has already mentioned decentralisation. That word that everyone so easily utters before each election, and no one has the strength to carry it out fully, and without it we will not go forward. We're gonna keep going back to the beginning on "Uravnilovk." decentralisation does not exclude solidarity towards the weaker, on the contrary, but incomplete decentralisation slows down the strongest, strongest, to move the processes even faster and tell the path to those slower, the tromies because these others are unfortunately not able to drag, sometimes justified sometimes not, but cannot and therefore it is necessary to completely decentralisation the country, and the real decentralisation is only when it is both functional and fiscal. When we give local and regional self-government obligations, they should also be given opportunities and tools to exercise their rights and benefits that they will invest again in further development. Decentralisation is certainly not the conduct of disputes between the state on the one hand, and cities and municipalities with the other about the land belonging to these cities and municipalities. Since many others are too abstract to realize that most of the land that is now owned by the Republic of Croatia should actually be owned by cities and municipalities, and, of course, private ones, where owners will create new values, that many more are too abstract to realize that for development, the development of the entire country is possible and only if most of the tax revenues remain where they are created and where they will be reinvested instead of eating too large, overpriced and too three state apparatus, to begin by proposing that the Republic suspends all disputes it has with cities and municipalities or withdraws claims for those particles located within the boundaries of the construction area of the settlement on the dates defined by law, and that the land returns those cities and municipalities. Then the hope will slowly begin to awaken as there is still a chance that someone understands why the most developed European countries are decentralised and why they are not able to concentrate at one point. It will be a small step towards decentralisation, but a big step for the Republic of Croatia, we hope you will take that step, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165662	I thank my colleague, Daus. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives, esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165663	He would welcome first the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, but he had just left the assembly, so I welcome Minister Marić, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues, so I listened carefully to the Prime Minister, he talked about minority rights, he talked about social divisions later, later on television or perhaps on social networks that I had to tell him, and in fact he probably didn't care, he talked about Agrokor, he talked about minority rights, he talked about social divisions, about false information, and maybe on social networks, he talked about legal security, we see how he was safe in that sense, he talked about hate speech, and then he talked a little bit about SDP, here's exactly how the elections got closer and how he suddenly he had to get away from SDP because otherwise, if he was talking about the same voting body against the sovereigns today, as he was talking about the whole campaign for European elections, and then he had a bad outcome of SDP. It feels that the time of the election is near and it is advised, this time it is advised that it must take those right-wing traditional HDZ voters, and it can only be in a way that the SDP attacks, although I must point out, and everyone who is looking at this understandably, Andrej Plenkovic has nothing against the attitudes, the world's and the ideologies of SDP, although he would fit perfectly there, so he would be one of the perfect SDP presidents and what I always say, and in fact the public already knows, tomorrow, it will be the great coalition of Andrej Plenkovic and colleagues from SDP, so that will mean they will try to manage the state. Furthermore, he began to mention fostering faith and tradition, talking about the independence of the judiciary, about digitisation, talking about having fewer officials and it's a lie, it's not a lie, it's a lie, so the official has more than there were, only he called them in some segment meaning civil servants, but there are more, the state apparatus has never been bigger. He spoke from GDP, he spoke about the surplus, he spoke about the tax, but he said another untruth, perhaps not addressed, said the Republic of Croatia currently has 103,000 more jobs, which is the equivalent of one Osijek. Andrey Plenkovic, who, I repeat, is not there, is unfortunately, here he came out when I came for the pay phone, doesn't know that Osijek no longer has 103,000 inhabitants, but 30-40 000 less, 30-40 000 less, so that's a lie, so Osijek has 30-40 000 less which he lost in his term of office. He then talked about the curricula, otherwise Croatian is a curicula, he uses the term used by his coalition partner, HNS, or Minister Divjak, which is not Croatian. So he did not make a mistake because it is a man who speaks a lot of languages, he is a Jarudite, but he uses a word that is not Croatian on purpose, which is a curiculum, and the Croatian word is a curicula, as well as colleagues from the SDP use that word and word unfortunately most HDZ colleagues who must listen and follow their party president. He talked about family, so he talked about family and talked about the basic community of life or some society, and then he said we had negative demographic trends in the Republic of Croatia, and then immediately, after that, he said we had positive demographic trends, and he said that in 2018. 417 children were born more than last year, right, so he said that we have a natural increase for 927 people, children, than it was in 2017, and that's a lie, because we have no natural growth, we do not have a growth of the number of inhabitants we have a natural decline which is only a bit smaller than it was in the previous year and this year we will have a bigger one than it was in 2018, and he did not say that, and this time I will say clearly and loudly what the Croatian public must know, in 2018 with whom Plenkovic, with whom he praised our Prime Minister, was not born any more than 927 inhabitants died but 15 761 inhabitants more than he had been born, 15 761 more. 2017 another 16,000, 2016 14,000. So during his term of office, it's 45,000, I'll repeat, 45,000 people less. That's terrible numbers, that's terrible. And I didn't mention it, and now I'm going to say a negative migration balance. From Croatia, more people move out than they move in so that your negative migration balance, this official one, we have one off-the-book, it's 13 476 2018, 31 802 2017 and 2016 it was 22 451, all of which is 70 000, officially plus 2019. plus these 45 000, so in Croatia we have official data, here I will add it up to speed, about 120 000 inhabitants less than there were when Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic sat down in this chair. 120,000 less official, off the record I don't know. So the Croatian state currently has less than 4 million inhabitants. These are the terrible numbers he refused to mention. I'll be back earlier on that SDP attack. They will not attack the sovereigns anymore because the sovereigns have achieved the third best result in the country and they fear that they will not grow and we will grow, and we are growing regardless of its attack or non-attack. What I still have to point out is extremely important and that's school reform, so-called. Life school. So, all of us will often attack Minister Divjak and we will say that she has ruined or is currently ruining Croatian school, however, she is just one of the ministers of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and she is doing everything that Andrej Plenkovic wants, everything. So when we talk about that famous school of life, do you know that kids don't have pills and they're going to what? the project of this reform? And then the teachers say, well, kids, you have a smartphone. Average smartphone, so a smart phone costs 1500 kn, it's another blow to the pocket of Croatian families, which is nice, so I was just talking to our President Andrej Plenkovic from this pay phone. But that's not all. When the kids come to school, the teachers tell them, "Come on, kids, Google it now, look up some information on the Internet, but there's no Wi-Fi at school, there's no network." So kids have to have their parents' money paid for by their Internet because otherwise they can't function, they just can't be on board. And then we're talking about the School of Life. Another topic the Prime Minister didn't mention and the demographics I speak for 5 minutes or 10 of my 20s, the Prime Minister spent 30 seconds an hour, that's his concern for demographics. That's his concern for demographics. And the next topic is the migrant crisis. He did not dare mention that currently thousands of migrants march, you have videos on the internet, look, marches towards the Croatian border, thousands of migrants. He said Croatia has stopped several hundred traffickers and has not said how many migrants have marched through Croatia without a passport, without documents, unauthorized across Croatia's territory. So, I think Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is turning his focus on important things and the most important things he talked about in the campaign and I will repeat, about the demographic recovery of Croatia and there is no such thing. And finally, I will repeat what I have pointed out for one thing that is very important to him, not important to him, he is a Christian Democrats only when it comes to receiving the votes of Christian Democrats. And when it comes to the policies of Christian Democrats, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is not a Christian Democrats. He has an obligation by the Constitutional Court to put in a procedure, to give here in this house a new law that would regulate the issue of abortion. I call the law a law on the protection of life, he calls it an abortion law and some other SDP colleagues, unfortunately many of them from HDZ and many others. He is a Christian Democrats when it comes to receiving the HBK delegation, the Croatian Bishop's Conference here on Mark's square, and he is not a Christian Democrats or a Christian when it comes to protecting life from its beginning, when he needs everything that these bishops have received, preach, he does not care. And so I gave him the book, and he got a dedication from Abby Johnson's books, "Unplanned." A woman who experienced her catharsis, who was the head of an abortion clinic. Today, Andrej Plenkovic runs the state in the same way as in this clinic, as was the case in this clinic of abortions, so happens in Croatia. As Abby Johnson watched and did nothing, so did Andrej Plenkovic. Only Andrej Plenkovic has now received a message, a clear message, here's another message, there's also a dedication, Your Honor, Prime Minister, I hope you will gain courage and protect your life from its conception, or from its beginning? I hope that at least he read the message and that as a Christian, as he is called, he will consider the message and do what eventually the church, which he formally belongs to and preaches why he advocates. I'm afraid none of that, because he's obviously a Christian only formally, not really. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165664	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. On behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165665	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers Maric, colleagues and colleagues, we had opportunities to listen to the prime minister and the Government's work report for 2019. The prime minister is obviously, there are other things, so they always have some opportunity to speak when the prime minister is there, and others have the opportunity to speak when the prime minister is away. We've all prepared certain speeches, and then the prime minister held in an hour something that's difficult to just call a Government Work Report for 2019, I'd call it a pre-election speech. St. The mark we are on is always full of tourists who come here in the morning or in the evening and imagine one of these people who accidentally strayed, had the opportunity to listen to the Government's work report for 2019 and not knowing anything that happens in Croatia he would rightly come and say, my people so it's ideal, so I don't understand why you have any objections to the work of that government, so that government should remain still, so you should, in your assembly or your parliament, make a decision that this government is working for the next 4 years because these results are perfect. But we who live there think something different. So instead of the government's work report, I would call it Mr. Andrej Plenkovic's pre-election speech, and then, in the subtitle, it would be how to sow coalition partners. I'm interested in Mr. Plenkovic and Mr. Maric when you made a decision on this salary increase, when was that? Because all weekend we've been listening to what it's like, or Friday, we had a chance to see it like that when the prime minister came out and said I'm going to raise my salary 100%. After that, he let his coalition partners out of this famous trade blackmail coalition and slowly moved them to see what you'd do. These were speeches by coalition partners, positions related to parliamentary elections that everyone showed that he was the one who allowed the salary increase, that he was the one who provided teachers and teachers with better pay. And he watched what was happening. And then very simply came out today, first he pulled that whole set of laws about, with work up to 68 so that we ended up here the subject of employers, and then he went out for this pay phone and said, the guys of mine in that coalition I'm the boss, and you need me as much as I'm gonna let you need me and it was that speech that Mr. Plenkovic had today. But to go back to that tourist who walks around Mark's square and wonders what's there. We who live here, who work here, have every right to ask ourselves and say some other things. So here I am going to go in a little order, something we call reform. In this field in Croatia very often and very gladly we use the word reform, but I fear that the reform does not live in the rooms of the government, that reform is actually just one convenient word and that there is not much of a reform. So I'll sort of go in a row. Let's see the pension reform. Peace reform what did it look like? First we heard that it was the best and perfect thing in the world, then millions were invested in the campaign, and then when people came out, then they gave up. And where is the pension reform? She's gone. Tomorrow we will have a law in which only what was asked through the referendum question will be incorporated, and what was some perfect idea of working until 68 years when the employers said my people don't transfer responsibility from the state to us, when they announced that today they would have a precedent from it gave up, but let's be honest and let's not lie. We didn't expect anything else. Education, in the education of the reform that we have seen, we have a really new reform of the modern strike model, so now it's called the strike that circulates from county to county and we have it. And so they turn on and off the lights, and since we have e-mails that parents get emails, then parents just watch the mail to see if they send the kids to school or not. And these are actually these strikes lights that are on in Croatia, and I'm afraid those are the only lights that have come on in terms of education reform because when you have an incompetent and purchased coalition partner who only cares about getting various equipment for schools and when you have given Croatia the future in your hands you can expect it. But Mr. Plenkovic, that responsibility is on you, and you are responsible for it, and you are responsible for that because of you and your government, every new generation is becoming more and more lagging behind and every new generation's chances of success are becoming less and less. Let's talk about health reform although Mr. Plenkovic didn't want to say anything about it, he said that he would be in the afternoon when he was probably withdrawn already, we had a year ago, come here at 15, 20 minutes formal defence of Minister Kujundzic, then leave him to defend himself there, because something that is characteristic of this government, it's probably a contagious disease, that's haughtiness. Our prime minister, indeed, is characterized by this one haughtiness, but this one boast is obviously transitional, so it is characterized by the other ministers, so we will have the opportunity to see how Mr Kujundzic, who is already announcing that he is expecting and that he is very looking forward to, looking forward to discussing where he is obviously at a personal debate, on a personal level, to debate with individual parliamentary representatives. What does health reform look like? It seems that nurses and technicians at the window of Mark’s square are looking for an increase because that poor church girl they are getting for their work is really not enough for them. But we don't have any problem with making decisions about where the government is investing in losers, such as Croatia airlines, why? Maybe that's why these people who went under the government window will strike faster to Munich by plane than when they take the bus and, of course, there's always a one-way ticket. Health care is in a crucible state, and we, the prime minister, didn't want to say anything in this speech, but I'm sure he'll really protect his minister, and what we all see, and we know that this minister is really very difficult to lead home counsel. And that, this government and its work, but it's always the responsibility of the first man, the responsibility of Mr. Plenkovic, even though I really must admit not all the ministers Mr. Plenkovic was ready to endure until the end. When the people, or ministers, were drained with their heads, and the jam fell out of their hands and the police started knocking on the door, then he encouraged himself and reconstructed the government, and all together it would be funny if it wasn't sad. When it comes to institutions, I have heard from the prime minister for the first time, I am actually what you see when you see the Prime Minister's résumé then it says there that our prime minister is a lawyer, but for the first time I heard that the prime minister likes to draw, and then the Prime Minister drew the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, so obviously this commission didn't understand until the end what our prime minister drew, but he's doing it to the institution and that's otherwise, the gagging of the institution is the way this government works because the prime minister decided not to deliver the documents to the commission, but it seems to me that he should have courage and spend something until the end. Come on, Mr. Plenkovic, have the courage and send to this Parliament the Commission's Disposal Act, so let's see if this HS will vote him and give him the reality that you are able to step on an institution or it was actually just one rude thing, because always, but always, contempt for the institutions of the Republic go hand in hand with your mouth full of godly patriotism, but good. We have the impression that we are doing well in Europe, that the Republic of Croatia will soon take over the precedent, which is a fact, but there is one small inconvenience or damage, that the leading EU members, primarily Germany and France, are not very impressed that we are ready for it, so they have sent and organised tutorship and control over the presidency, the same ones who do things just don't want to let us into Schengen, and they are afraid that this presidency is not fiasco. Why? Well, because in the Brussels halls, you still know who he's dealing with. How are the preparations going? We have no idea. What are the priorities of the presidency, in Zagreb is said one thing, and in Brussels another, which is, we had the opportunity to listen to, the most important and most powerful area of Mr Plenkovic, so it turns out that in fact the maximum energy Mr Plenkovic used to position himself, then position members of the HDZ, and for the country what is left, it doesn't matter, there is little left. We have this example, the case of Mrs. Devereaux. Lore Vidovic, when the prime minister made it clear that he is only interested in representatives of the Republic of Croatia in international bodies if they are HDZ. If either one of us, whether by the ruling or by the opposition, had to count three cancers of our society's wounds that quickly, I'm sure one of the key things would be the judiciary, but with the judiciary, there's no courage for this government and this Prime Minister to be taken into account. One of the main reasons for citizens' mistrust and possible investors in the country continue the full scope of judicial scandals in all our media. They're in the process of sending laws that don't really change anything, we get the impression that something's going on, but it's really not happening. We in GLAS have sent in the parliamentary procedure legislation which clearly defines judges' responsibilities for the work of punishments and rewards for those who do bad or good, and you have satisfiedly rejected that law. And we can thus, indefinitely, list and cite both the economy and the migration and demographic restoration and social justice and solidarity and overcoming social divisions and the protection of families and entrepreneurship and investment and agriculture and rural development and job creation and public administration and the uniform development of all the rest of Croatia and the protection of the socially endangered, culture, minorities, media, all of these are the concepts of your Mr Plenkovic's programme and your government. And now we have to ask ourselves, which of these areas did something happen? In fact, we don't have to wonder if the answer we know, we all feel it, all the citizens of the Republic feel it. No one expects the Prime Minister to have a magic wand, no one expects all the problems to be solved with one movement of that magic wand, but we expect something to begin to solve. And therefore, the prime minister in the government's work report actually holds an election speech and keeps a series of promises that he will promise and what he will do. What's the surprise? In the election year, it's always like that. But what we know, we know what it was like three years ago, and we know what was done, and nothing was done. In fact, there was a reform to be honest with you. It's a reform date of national holidays. And therefore, my dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens, education, health care, justice, public administration, you can completely forget all yours and our problems will be resolved once again when we officially celebrate the day when HDZ first came to power 29 years ago and we will all officially celebrate it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165666	I thank my esteemed colleague. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, independent representative respected colleague Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165667	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Education, demographics and employment of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives club puts these three pillars as priorities that we should deal with in Croatia, which we also consider priorities that should be addressed by the Government. I am extremely pleased that the Prime Minister has touched today in his report every single one of these three pillars that we consider most important in the club Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Education, especially that basic education which is also a constitutional category and entered in the Constitution since this year has been a major improvement. This fall was the first fall when citizens welcomed the start of the new school year much easier and calmer, all elementary school textbooks were welcomed at their school venues. And what is particularly important to note is that just by pawning the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club, it has come to this. It is also very important for free textbooks to note that they are ultimately provided for absolutely all cases, although the decisions coming from the ministries wanted to throw out the electoral items that pupils must choose and thus become mandatory subjects. Personally, as far as education itself is concerned, I must stress the great satisfaction that this government has corrected the long injustice that has been towards my Krapina-Zagorian County. We were the only county in the Republic of Croatia who had absolutely no option for students to stay in their place and that they could study there for free. This year can definitely and must be marked as a historic year for Krapina-Zagorje County on the subject of education. Two weeks ago, the first generation of students enrolled the Croatian Zagorje-Krapin University in the area of my county without any obligation to pay tuition. Everything I talked about when I warned about the need for the transfer of founding rights to Veleučište Hrvatska zagorje-Krapina to the Republic of Croatia has come true. The number of students who applied for enrolment this year has increased unmistakably compared to absolutely all over the past year when studying in Krapina cost unfortunately more than 15,000 kunas per year. In this story we only have an open question to help the founders of Veleučište Hrvatska Zagorje-Krapina. In fact, by adopting this High House in the 2019 budget, we predicted that the state of establishment or the right of the university would take on itself for the whole of 2019, and this only happened in July, so all of our founders who have already invested significant resources in surviving the university during the past year have brought the burden of financing its functioning and the first half of this year, although we have in the state budget provided money for the entire year of financing the university. As far as demographics are concerned, I would particularly refer to the restoration and construction of kindergartens, which was provided with resources from several sources through measure 7.4. and through the Ministry of Demography and family. Of course we welcome such actions, and we think it should be possible for all of our citizens to have the possibility of leaving their children on their way to work. We also need to worry about allowing children to stay in kindergarten and in the afternoon because we know that not all of them work from 7 to 3 but there is a shift work, and then quite a number of parents often have a problem with having children when they work this afternoon. Our proposal is that some rationalisation of the kindergarten management system should be considered because now they were units of local self-government, which appeared in competition and which work and build kindergartens and looking at few projects and what is being built, some of the units of local self-government were doing kindergartens even for the capacity of only thirty children. We know that no kindergarten can be profitable unless about a hundred children are enrolled. The kindergartens will be built, they will be there but I wonder where local self-government units will find funds for co-financing in a few years. A cold drive for every future year? In my opinion, it should approach some rationalisation at least at the county level. Consideration should be given to the possible establishment of public institutions or something else that all public kindergartens would enter and the resources needed for directors, secretaries, professional staff such as educators, psychologists, logos would then be reduced. They would then stand at the disposal of everyone and it would be much easier to manage the replacements needed in sick, maternity or other cases when employees would be prevented from coming to their jobs. As far as maternity and parental benefits are concerned, I must say that this government has really made huge shifts and increased them, but my appeal for the future is to consider the full de-mining of parental benefits for the other 6 months, that women who use maternity care for a whole period of the year receive their real salary from work. I know many of my peers who, although thinking about pregnancy, are very well calculated because they are demoted by the fact that they will be in another 6 months. have much less income than they have in their current workplace. I believe that if there were to be a breakdown of maternity benefits in order to significantly increase the number of children born and these current figures, which were 417 more born in 2018, would have increased significantly. Decentralization. It's a notion that's been going through our public space for years. I'd say he's finally getting his outlines and his direction he's supposed to take. During all previous governments our units of local self-government fell to their knees, especially here I am talking about units of local self-government in continental Croatia and a special emphasis should be placed on those who had the status of mountain-mounted and assisted areas. At that time, many of the previous governments lost up to 40% of their original income due to already agreed projects and plans for the future. I wonder what it would be like for you to lose 40% of your income tomorrow without any notice or hunch it would happen? Tax reforms by the government and legislative solutions on mountain-mounted and assisted areas have stabilised the situation somewhat and have allowed units of local self-government to stand. Our appeal is for future tax reforms to be particularly concerned about local self-government units, so we don't have to go back to the black script from a few years ago. Co-financing of EU projects of local self-government units, or aid provided by the state in the settlement of its own component, is of paramount importance to us. In order for our withdrawal of funds from European funds to be better, we need additional assistance from local self-government units and we believe that we need to consider increasing this item because already many units of local self-government have been raising loans to close their own components in financing and their possibility of applying to future competitions that will come and also prepare project documentation for the future envelope is questionable. Local self-government units need to be strengthened and supported because they are the first addresses our citizens address at any time of their demands or do not give God a problem. Transport infrastructure was the area you also looked back on in your report, finally after years and years of promises we watch Pelješki bridge grow from day to day, Croatia will finally be re-connected. Construction sites are on the side, and that's good, and it needs to be even more. Over the years, I would say that there has been quite a focus on road infrastructure and I think it would be good for us to focus a little more on rail infrastructure in the future and on the application and negotiations on future envelopes from the EU. I personally chose rail transport more often for my travels across Europe than for that air transport, and I really have to say that I enjoyed it and I wish that in the Republic of Croatia over a few years we could travel by train to European standards. I have often talked here in the Parliament about the traffic incontinence and isolation of many rural areas, our citizens in some parts of the Republic of Croatia have simply lost contact with the world and have no possibility of getting to a hospital or a small town, simply have to have their own car or have to borrow a car or beg someone for transportation. What the Labour Party Club and solidarity and independent representatives propose is integrated transport as a solution for such environments. I know that a working group for the construction of the Integrated Transport Act has been established, and my appeal to you, to the Government, is to put it in your focus so that we have an almost legal solution as soon as possible and to get used to citizens to making as much use of public transport as possible, and that the less traffic is isolated in rural areas as possible. And lastly, I have to take this opportunity to say that with impatience and optimism, I am waiting for the announced session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be held in Krapina, and I hope that certain projects that will then be agreed will give an additional swing to Zagorje and to our entire environment. The Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club will support the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165668	I thank my colleague Puh. Next debate on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club. Dear colleague Goran Dodig. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165669	My colleagues have a good day. And to you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. I wasn't ready to talk today, but I decided to speak here and have a great need to speak briefly today and speak for two reasons. The first reason I'm speaking publicly today is because I couldn't speak for a year, I couldn't speak for a year, I couldn't speak for a lot of people. The second reason I'm going to speak today, to assess very briefly what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia said. So I'm going to mention one more time why I couldn't talk. Yeah, I had a stroke, all of a sudden, and I was about to die. Thank God I stayed alive and I can talk today. Yeah. I rated, under point two, the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic as the President of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, I'm not going to talk about what he was saying today because it was beneath the dignity of what they were saying, assessing what the Prime Minister was saying. And that's why I'm going to say a few words about it. A grade I can give the president, why do you think you're right, please, no, First I'm going to evaluate his intelligence, his intellect. [[Intruder: Please colleague.]] His, my grade is excellent. And it can, we can discuss, it can be discussed, but you know as a advance that something isn't worth it, and I want to say now that it's a man who has an intelligence, an intelligence that makes him great. If you know how to judge a man then you must know at least 6 intellectuals, intelligence and you must know them what makes a man intellectual and he can get determined. Understanding under point two, you can laugh at it, but please be polite, please, thank you very much. Understanding politics is great because politics is a very broad concept and it should be known to count on it, you're a sociologist or whatever, but that's not enough, he gave me a great grade. Understanding reality would give him a very good, life's realities must be well understood he must watch how he will look at politics, how he will be humiliated in society and how.../incomprehensible/... The fourth point, price in the EU, I see its role in Europe, the Union. I am experiencing him as a very powerful man in the EU given the size of the state, to the possibility that he has shown a very powerful man and that is what I say again.../incomprehensible/... position in European. Under point five, whether he's brave enough political, not true, you were wrong, you were wrong, he's very brave, politically very good, why don't you give him the determination, because I'm not wise enough to see all the elements whether he's great or very good. Absolutely, absolutely don't negotiate me, please. Yes, yes, yes, yes, because you're going to talk about one segment of him, I'm looking at it in its entirety. And when we finish all this grade, then I can tell you that our Prime Minister... No, we don't absolutely support him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If someone from HDZ has people who suspect... No, let me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165670	Dear colleagues of Grmoya and Maras, please don't disturb me. A fellow Thunderbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165671	Don't be rude, please, be polite. I've never offended either of you, nor the third, nor the fourth. ... Don't tell me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's leading... Why do we support HDZ because the big party... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Absolutely, that's your problem. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And no matter who the president is, I support HDZ because you have to take care of that fact. And so we support the Croatian government regardless of what we do not fully support all the ministers, but when I look at his whole decisions, then I support him. Thank you very much for hearing me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165672	I thank my colleague, Dodig. Next debate on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165673	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to sum up as soon as possible what's under the agenda. For the past year, it's certainly good that we can and we have a lot of concrete things to point out. Of course, we don't have to sneak in and say that it's all over now and that we've done everything, there's always room for more and surely in these announcements I can read it. Certainly some of the announcements we have heard and what has been done when we talk about some tax and financial aspects of the work of this government and the measures adopted by the law, regulations and all others, the minimum that has been increased to 3,000 kuna and that an additional increase is certainly announced. It must be as we have spoken not by decree but according to thoughtfulness and knowing what it means to our employers and what the compensatory measures are and how they have proved to be to what extent they function. And with them certainly, then, the increase in the minimum wage is something that we might think and welcome for an absolute increase further. As far as taxes are concerned, I think the data we have heard that, in three measures of tax evasion, the total economy and citizens have paid less taxes, some more money in the amount of 8 billion kuna, which has certainly proved to be a good direction in the sense that each discharge has led to an increase in consumption and that this has been followed by a growth in tax revenues. So, you cut taxes, your tax revenues are growing, it's something that's normal, which has already begun in the long run, I think and I believe those first tax reforms when we started to increase our personal deduction in 2015. And it turned out well and it was good that it was done systematically, which is done planically, which is not on the Hu Boo, which is not suddenly and that this is the economy and that the citizens actually reacted. And certainly the announcement of anyone who goes into further tax redistribution of salaries is something that I believe would first and foremost not bring to anyone a better standard or any further dispensation of the real economy, and even if it goes to the expense of a linear VAT reduction that I believe would not bring much better standards or any additional relief to the real economy, and certainly that we can seek it through such a redistribution in better resolutions and for the citizens, but also for our economy and we absolutely welcome it, so we also announced an increase in personal relief, but also other measures, of course, with a note that it is still especially done in this mandate, that we are taking further care of the fiscal balancing of our municipalities and cities, that something that we have yet proposed in the SDP meeting then failed to pass, today on the strength and that this is how we account and even the balanced development of our entire Croatian and fiscal capacities have been increased in terms ofgrowth , which we do so in terms ofpublic , that we have to reduce thestandards , which we do not have to thetaxes , whichwe , which we have to be able to make public topay , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and the money of themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and the money of themoney , and the money of themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and the money thatwe 's that we's of themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , that we's of themoney , and the money that we are themoney , and the money of themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and the money of themoney , and the money thatwe , that we are themoney , and themoney , and themoney , and themoney , that we are themoney So I think it's a quality way of arguing and in that sense you'll always have our support. What's good is when we look at fiscally, a second-year surplus in a row of 0.2% of GDP or nearly 800 million kuna, I think this clearly says that this is done systematically and planned and that there was and there is always room for what will bring improvement to all our citizens. In line with that, and the share of the public debt falls, so we meet the far-fetched master criteria and absolutely when we talk about the imbalance coming out of the excessive budget deficit procedure, so surely these are certain data that, why am I saying that? So the prime minister said that all of this guarantees us lower interest, cheaper borrowing, but not only from the state because we heard it from 12 to 9 billion interest rates and less than 9, but also from citizens because today you don't have to be too much economic expert to go to and see how much certain products cost financial and credit, and that's where you can already see the first form of state and state and financial status and state and the government and macroeconomic indicators, and that's what these agencies say, that's what citizens feel, that's what they need to say that those who today have bigger interest can and need to or should go to other banks and to the same bank and ask for the refinance of their credit, absolutely legal, possible, if someone raised a residential loan 6% before 5. This is the essence and reality today, which is why I use this path to invite citizens to take an interest, to go to their personal bankers and ask for offers, to go to other banks, it's absolutely possible that it's not possible that once you've put up a loan to do so for the rest of your life in those 30s, 20s, 15s. As far as the manual is concerned, it must be, not necessarily, that the citizens need to know, the money is now far cheaper and the opportunities are higher for the citizens, and of course all the consequences of the overall state of the state and public finances. So, absolutely as far as economic achievements are concerned, I think we're on a good track, that these announcements regarding both our efforts and our salaries are being increased to have a foundation, and that it has proved to be certain that what is absolutely important to us in the mandate of this government is, of course, also in the resolutions that we have HNS and formal waters, but above all, he put his whole focus on, when we talk about Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Štromar, that in these years, in particular, we have over 1300 hospitals, schools, kindergartens, classrooms, classrooms, etc., of which one billion and per grant, over one billion kuna worth of energy-renovation projects of several residential buildings, tens of thousands of people now have better real estate, more valuable real estate and less cost, so to say, this is energy recovery, it brings us with foreign money, of course, not to the public sector. Over 5300 subsidized loans, over 8,000 POS apartments, so young families, thousands of young families stayed in the Republic of Croatia when they tied themselves to the property and now live here and do not watch it go away. On the one hand, when we look at and encourage that every newborn child within POS or subsidized loans, then we have this, and that demographic aspect, so over 36,000 young people in 13500 homes with these measures, that's concrete. We can have an impression like this, think of someone like that, these are all concrete things, of course, there's always those who say it could be much better, it can be much better, I'll say the same thing can always be better, it's never to be satisfied, once you stop you're actually falling apart, you go backwards, everyone else goes ahead, you always have to try and be faster, better and more efficient. Surely, with a digitized, faster and simpler outcome procedure, the number of investors themselves will be growing, it will probably be seen on the very same page, in fact through the Doing Business scale where something will certainly be worth something that was done in this direction, absolutely that you previously have a sea for the ordinary house, for, for private, to have five times 10 kg of paper projects, now it is all digitized, the institute of your own silence of the administration that you no longer have to call all public institutions, waterways, electricity, all living, disposal, but it all has to solve the city if, or the administration that issues the permit, if it does not appear within two weeks, has simplified, has accelerated the procedure. So one more efficient, faster and cheaper system of issuing permits, surely that there should absolutely not be forgotten about something that has been put aside many times, and that may be... It has become a feature of this government to deal with a lot of issues that have always been on the side, and in that government it has welcomed us, it is nothing new, but a lot is being solved here, and so is the problem of protected tenants where 30 g is. It kind of avoided it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the Ministry of Science and Education is concerned, surely the first and most basic thing is the biggest reform of education in the Republic of Croatia is one of the biggest reforms in general which now includes over 150,000 students and over 40,000 teachers in over 1300 schools, of which there were many who said give them salaries, do not buy them equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, this equipment and this funding is actually implemented in terms of over 800 million kunas from the European Funds where it cannot be rerouted except for what is targeted, which is intended and for this purpose, we cannot get money to raise salaries from these budgets, but that does not mean that it has not been taken, billions have been provided for investment in education. There I heard that someone mentioned that only the care of the CNS is how to buy equipment, does not do it in the Central State Public Procurement Office, not us, not the Ministry, not nobody is the goal, the goal is to have modern classrooms in the equipped, equipped classroom, in the better-organised energy renewable buildings, with a better quality curricula and better educated professor, teacher and, of course, more satisfied if it is satisfied and motivated, then the ultimate result is that and in that sense it was our view that such a great reform should also be followed by people who bring it in terms of the financial part, and therefore we welcome this announced increase we asked for, of course this announcement that both the harmony and the coefficients of the complexity of the business, i.e. to bring it into some real frameworks as soon as possible, that it should be adequately rewarded by those who work extra, and the same kind of public service, which is not always the same thing that has been the same thing of the public service. And then, of course, when something more demanding needs to be done, it's given to someone who's already loaded, but it's another pair of gloves that we can't single out just like that. So if this is our insistence on increasing the teacher's salary, it has led all public and state officials to get an increase, so I'm also talking about firefighters, cops, etc., then we welcome that. We know what our goal was and what was in the strategy and what was what we promised and said we would do and what we were working on. And that's irrefutable. When we talk about vocational education, up to now at 25 centres of excellence 50 million kunas are provided each, so a billion and a half kuna from the European Funds, 3 billion kunas for investment in the system of science and education, so more indeed billions and billions in individual segments, absolutely entering CERN is something that has marked after so many and so many years, after I think that Minister Jovanovic was first asked for, it is now done. This did not come from itself and certainly when we look at the total amount of EU funds, therefore 2.5 billion kuna is certainly something worth mentioning and the effects and concrete results we have. So we absolutely support the results so far, of course with this very serious promise that this question of the coefficient of complexity of jobs will also be considered and that those who work additionally will indeed be valorised and those who may only be doing such a comprehensive reform. And we welcome, and I don't think of it as a success of the HNS that everyone's salary has gone up another 6%, so I don't even want to think about it, but we certainly want to think about the results, about what we leave behind and what's going to be, and that's just one small step in everything I've just mentioned here. So once again, we will also support this report and expect that in these last year or as long as it takes, we will absolutely do our best and put it into another higher speed if possible in our portfolios, but certainly in the other ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165674	I thank my colleague. So were you. You weren't a little while ago, but good. Here you go, buddy. Your friend Curaj checked you out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165675	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues as we in the HNS always tell history, I would like to look back with a few sentences on what awaits us in the future, and this is a very responsible task, a commitment, but also an opportunity to chair what awaits us next year. Namely, here are the very short challenges ahead of us, expectations or announcements that they will decrease, that in fact the percentage of national co-financing will increase, and that the total envelope of the location for Croatia will decrease by 6%. Well, maybe it's an opportunity to position ourselves in that part and through those six months of presidencies in a more high-quality way. What is important are the operational programmes, which Croatia will present in the new financial period from 2021 to 2027, more or less in certain portfolios have made quality moves, but in some sectors we should work on continuously, regardless of whether we are more or less satisfied at this point. It is primarily about transforming the economy, increasing productivity, growing competitiveness, fully meaning not only small, medium, but all, completely economy. What is waiting for us is probably already and is in some kind of initiation it is an industrial transition, and all of which, of course, we must have what I think is a key factor, which is educated, educated and professional personnel. Also taught by the work so far in the education portfolio, I think that we need to fight through operational programmes just to make European money a leverage, that this part of the reform that is in schools to lead to the desired level. What I would also like to say, and what my colleague Curaj is saying is also an analysis, and what we expect is one and a revision of the complexity of the business in the entire public sector, I see the opportunity and what has been said for years, the fact is that no government has fully managed to implement what is real and for the government's mandate is very difficult, and this is a reform of the complete public administration. Starting with the locals and all the departments and all the public services. Of course, I also see this new financial perspective as an opportunity to be part of the money, and I believe that something similar to that would be supported by the EU, means that the public administration is rationalised, to improve, to be more efficient, of course through operational programmes, and that is why it is also a recommendation, which you are aware that the opportunity to make with European money and there, with the participation of the domestic component, is a quality shift. As regards the other operational programmes in which it was contained, in particular the 4 priorities of the presidency that you have indicated, strengthening the internal market, competitiveness, etc., e means transport, energy, digital infrastructure. This is something in which Croatia is lagging behind and certainly there is an opportunity on this part, in addition to quality programs we can also make a quality step in this period of financial perspective. Especially with regard to traffic and also at that level, local levels mean from county, local to unclassified roads which although we have quite a good highway, the level of local roads is extremely poor. And there I certainly see the opportunity, we had partly through rural development, but large areas, larger cities or slightly smaller cities didn't have the opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165676	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU and Independent Representatives and Forces, esteemed colleague Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165677	Thank you, Mr. Vice Presidential. Good afternoon to Mr. Prime Minister. My colleagues and colleagues today I would like to talk about that part of the report on the work of the Government, which the Prime Minister did not want to talk about at this point, which concerns health and health. First of all, the functional health system, prevents and treats, it provides quality health care equal to all citizens and citizens. The functional health system monitors and assesses all health needs of the population, makes decisions on the distribution of resources in order to provide quality healthcare to all and on equal terms in the most efficient way. We're all aware that our health system doesn't do it and doesn't provide it. What we're trying to say is that it neither monitors the health needs of construction, nor effectively distributes human and financial resources, nor gives equal care to everyone under equal conditions. The functional health system is one of the foundations of both human and social development, but the dysfunctional system takes away health and reproduces inequality in society. The functional system respects the dignity of healthcare professionals and all patients equally and is based on science and facts. A dysfunctional health system, which is what we have unfortunately favours some healthcare workers, some patients and puts religious ideology above science. In the functional health system, a priest is not worth 20 doctors, but 1 doctor is worth 1,000 priests. This kind of health system that is dysfunctional is primarily responsible for the minister. The Minister of Health, and we will discuss this later, should not stand down just because he has not established a functional health system, which is his primary and main task as Minister of Health. But he is more responsible because he promotes and supports another much more dangerous pathology, which is the pathology of taking away women's humanity through non-recognition of women's pain and through allowing systematic discrimination and violence against women in providing reproductive health care to gynaecological departments and hospitals throughout Croatia. Both the government and the various ministries are full of the mouth that women need to have more children for the needs of the state, when these same women say that they are being harassed, discriminated, humiliated during childbirth and during other procedures concerning reproductive health are then ignored. Statistically, it is monitored how many fertile women we have in the country, but it is not monitored how many women have experienced a painful medical procedure without anesthesia, how many women have not been informed about their rights and the consequences of the proceedings, let's not say how many violent doctors are, how many women are denied the right to abortion. It's just that women are here to give birth to the state, but the state is not here to provide adequate care to women. All we can remember is the Croatian version of the Meetup movement which experienced its culmination with the earthquake testimony of our fellow Member of Parliament Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, and then 100 women who were deprived of the right to reproductive health to quality health care without pain, without discrimination and without humiliation. Let us also remember the reaction of the Minister of Health to the traumatic experience of the parliamentary representative and over 400 women who witnessed how they were born live, under quotes of kiretage, abortion, aspiration or sewn border after childbirth, how their legs and arms were tied, that no one informed them that they were entitled to the procedure without pain and had an option of anesthesia. The minister's reaction at the time did not provide support, did not provide understanding or critical thinking about the obvious failures in the health system and how to adequately prevent them. But his reaction was that women lie, that they can't appreciate their own pain, that they don't know their own bodies, and even though there were unnecessary painful procedures, it's quite acceptable because we don't have enough anesthesiologists, so some women are silent and suffering. Our citizens, instead of rights, experienced inhumane pain, suffering, and humiliation. This ministry and this minister we'll discuss later, this government and this prime minister we're talking about now, have taken women's rights away. Although even international organisations such as the UN have shown concern about discrimination and violence against women in the Croatian health system, the ministry and government have persistently ignored the voice and pain of women. Women are further deprived of the right to abortion. To be clearly rich women will always be able to finance expensive abortions either in Croatia or abroad. Croatia is denying access to the abortion of women of weaker property status, women living in rural areas and who do not have social and physical capital to decide for themselves when and how many children they will have, thus reproduce social inequalities, this right has become a toy in the unfortunate, almost infamous political hands of this same government and this same minister. That is why I think that both the minister and the prime minister should not stand down just because they treat them, but primarily because of what kind of disease they support and beyond, which is a disease of deprivement of women, a disease that gives priority to individual religious beliefs over civil rights, to the quality of health services they need, a disease that sees and portrays a woman only as a birthing tool, and not as a completely human being who, like all of us men, has the right to decide what to do with his body and who has the right to health care and services without discrimination, without pain and without humiliation. I would like to read to the Prime Minister, before I give my word to my colleague, to the Prime Minister, the messages of the citizens who sent him over, through my facebook page when I listen to his presentation this morning, so this is one opportunity for the prime minister to hear the voice of the citizens, so here is Jasna telling the prime minister that a poor country in which justice should be sought by petitions and leaving the Prime Minister a link to the petition Will you be silent if they touch your child? Bojan says, but not me, but one of the other Bojans, says we're listening to the prime minister lying and no one sitting and listening, is someone convinced of everything he lied about, the pensioners, the raped women, the poor, the unemployed, this way by tomorrow I could count. Nikola tells the prime minister that the people are not stupid as he makes it and that more and more people are leaving just because of his politics and HDZ and that he is said to be sick from haughtiness and dictatorship. The leprechaun says, disaster from their reign, they look only at themselves, and the common people don't. Mirjana tells the prime minister that yesterday's daughter who told her to finish that school and pack a suitcase because here as a young girl and a family woman who has absolutely no connection to politics and whose parents work in the private sector, there is absolutely no future. Think about it, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165678	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Sagar. Just one piece of information, when we're done with this agenda point, I'm gonna set up a break and we're gonna get back to work at 4:30. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165679	Thank you, thank you, Vice President HS. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues, given the short time I will try to say directly what I saw in this report or what I did not see and to say in a vivid way if the minister, if the prime minister brought in, brought the vehicle to a technical inspection, let's nevertheless raise a little hood to see what is hidden underneath and what seems not only dangerous but perhaps in the future questionable, and it is about the finances in which the prime minister spoke and, lately, it has been significantly highlighted by the Minister of Finance, which is the financial stability on which the work of this Government is based. So here's to starting with just a couple, a couple of facts that are available and that have been in previous reports here in HS. It is true that the average administrative unemployment rate has been reduced, in fact by 8.9%, therefore the number of unemployed persons has been reduced, but unfortunately this does not follow a significant increase in the number of insurance companies. The largest number of increases was in the construction sector, what we can hear now and from the designers is that the number of projects is shrinking, which means that in the near future, not perhaps next year, but in 2.g. Surely the number of investments falls. What we have seen from previous reports, the report on the implementation of the budget is that GDP growth in the Republic of Croatia is the most based on the increase in personal consumption. And yet another fact, half of the population in the Republic of Croatia has no opportunity to leave 7 days outside of their place of residence, so despite the fact that the Republic of Croatia visits 20 million tourists, almost half of the population has no chance to go to sea. Why am I saying all this? Namely, I welcome today's decision or the Prime Minister's announcement that he will raise salaries to the public sector by 6%, and I am sorry that the finance minister is not sitting here now to hear it. What is not good, what is neglected, and the finance minister is somehow deafening both the labour minister and the pension system, which is a constant warning that the price for supplementary health insurance is too low, it should be increased because citizens, many citizens and pensioners are coming into the situation by indexing that they have to pay for additional health insurance, instead of increasing pensions have a reduction in pension. So, that should, that, that, the government should take care of that, and that should be done, and why I think it can be done, would even recommend to the prime minister that he raises salaries already in the public sector as of 1 November. Namely, if we observe VAT, compared to 2017. in 2018, the following indent shall be added: The VAT has been collected at nearly 4 billion kunas. If we look at budget implementation for the first 6 months of 2019, then we have an increase, we can project with an increase of 4.7%, 0.47%, 4.7%, pardon, almost 2.5 billion kuna. If that money, and the prime minister announced that it would give up most likely from a reduction in VAT rate by 1%, that would mean somewhere in those estimates a billion and 800 million kuna would be less revenue, if that money were directed towards wages, then it's quite certain, and we're talking about the salaries of teachers, policemen, that this money would go into consumption, it would cause an increase in personal consumption, so it would cause a rise in GDP in other words, I'm pretty sure the government wouldn't lose if it also reduced the value added tax rate by one percentage point would not lose this amount of two billion kuna, but would be injected into public sector wages and increased. It's a similar thing with pensioners, you increase pensions, especially the lowest pensions, then it's entirely to expect that such an increase in pensions will certainly cause more spending of citizens because pensioners, teachers, cops they won't put that money on savings, believe me, that money will go into consumption. So even though mathematics is a trinity she's saying that spatial has, only now she's asking why she hasn't responded before, why are teachers allowed to go on strike? This should have been addressed before, the finance minister should have said there is space because if it is said that the loss in the cash register with one percentage point will be by a billion and 800 kuna less, and not taken into account the increase that is evident. Here's the report we have since 2018, compared to 2017 for 4 billion kuna, and since this year, compared to the last 2 billion and 400 million kuna, then someone to express themselves is not telling the truth. So we have an increase in income from value added tax. And the minister himself admitted here when the income tax rate was reduced to increase the tax rate raised. And one more thing I'd like to warn the prime minister, let him pay good attention, it's about family pensions. All the organized countries have done it only with us has not yet been made. It's mostly women in rural areas. A woman who got up every morning at five o'clock in the fog, rain and snow, went to work and when she retired she could choose if her husband's pension was more than 70% of his, but at that point she had to give up her pensions, all 40 and a few years as I say in such conditions she went to work. Think about it, Prime Minister. What I wanted to say in this debate, obviously there is money, it's just a question of whether it's going to be spent, I'm saying now in consumption because I'm stressing again if the teacher's salaries increase, pensions of pensioners will be increased consumption. It certainly won't be money to save, it's rare for teachers who have several million euros in their account. So pay special attention to the most vulnerable layers of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165680	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. Next debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165681	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, I will start from the main point of today's presentation of the Prime Minister's work in this year, in which the prime minister expressed the government's position on the dispute that has opened in recent weeks, and in fact opened in the past few months, and this is a question of how and how to meet the demands of the representatives of public services in health, in school, in the police and tomorrow, probably in some four or five sectors, which is the proposal that the government proposes to result in a three-step increase or three-step move of 6.12% next year. Although the club has no insight into all the facts the Prime Minister has and the finance minister have, we think it is a reasonable proposal at the moment as to the expected demands. Reasonable first because no one will be segregated and on the other hand that we won't have a new group of demands in a month in relation to the government but will refer to everything. It is also reasonable because, given the fiscal responsibility, the Government or the Ministry is able to consider in three steps how it is possible and how it is possible to meet this requirement, given the dynamics of budget filling. It is also reasonable to give up the planned VAT reduction because otherwise the request could not be met. I will add something to that on behalf of the club, and it is not even about the reduction in VAT rates, nor about the percentage of wages increases in the public sector. It's about the way we as a state control the realisation of our decisions and I'm going to look into two aspects. One aspect of this experience we had with last year's reduction in VAT rates for certain products such as food products means meat, fish, fruit, vegetables where VAT rates are significantly reduced. The effects of this reduction unfortunately for the citizens and for the state were not favourable. Maybe if the government had some other analysis, I'd like the government to say it's not true. The reasons are not in the government's wrong decision but in the lack of control mechanisms and monitoring mechanisms as implemented. Here are at least two finance ministers I know from earlier periods, one on the right, one on the left, and the issue of monitoring fiscal policy measures in their realisation seems to me to be one of the most serious difficulties in implementing government policies that then create serious difficulties in the perception of citizens. If the VAT measure was introduced in order to reduce VAT and increase consumption and thus to reduce the need and pressure to increase wages, we did not get the effect. We got an increase in the largest number of cases we got an increase in the product as meat and meat, fish, fruit and vegetables, and the reduction in VAT turned out to be some kind of subsidy to shops and traders. I'm sure no one wanted to, but that's how it turned out. The second thing the Prime Minister said was coefficients in public sectors. And that needs to be reconsidered and we agree to improve the working climate and to create more serious justice among people who work. When I say better working climate, it means more encouraging conditions for working within the public sector, while at the same time people who do not work in the public sector do not feel that public sector people do not have any incentives for their work, and I think it is a good measure. But this measure, as well as the tax measures, requires serious preparation of the state administration, the state administration and the work of the ministries, and depends on what results we will achieve. And I think it's up to her to be the credibility of every decision we make here and every decision of the government. And in the end, it depends on how many people are attached to the state, how much they believe in the state, how much they consider it their own. And I suggest we commit ourselves to that, I suggest that this government and the ruling coalition strengthen that segment of their programme and their measures. In this respect, the SDSS will certainly be a sacrificed partner to the extent it can. Secondly, what we would like to say is quite true that there has been a significant increase in the negotiation of funds from European funds and that the absorption of funds from European funds through various agriculture ministries has grown significantly. However, what I think is necessary is to open up at the end of this year and evaluate how we did this year, if it was a necessary step, and certainly is, the next necessary step should be to look at the quality of that absorption. How much is this absorption and the increase in funds in agriculture, for example, how much has it helped to have increased agricultural production and in which sectors and in which segments? How much has this absorption helped to sustain agricultural production in the segments for which the funds have been secured and for which funds have been withdrawn? Not because of the picture to Brussels, not because of the picture to each other, but because of the fact that with agriculture tourism and what industry we have is actually a key branch of national. And if we may, Mr. Prime Minister, suggest that as one of the measures of our government, we should be looking at not only the absorption capacities that are now already approaching countries that have an absorption capacity stage but to see what the quality of it is, which are the effects of that on the improvement in this case of agricultural production, reducing regional underdevelopment and differences in regional development, and then remains, of course, a key issue of public institutions, schools, universities, hospitals and all others that should benefit greatly and significantly more from these programmes than they are using today. The third thing I want to talk about on behalf of the SDSS Club, and I've already talked about it, I've talked about it in the course of reports submitted by the Prime Minister from a session of the European Council and other meetings at which he was present, whether formal or informal. We, thanks to this government, and thanks to the Prime Minister himself, have significantly raised the level of influence of our policy in the EU institutions no doubt and undeniably. What seems to us in our club is how and in what way and where and in which segments we as a country can strengthen our capacity for our national policy. The processes that take place in our neighbourhood, the southern neighbourhood, the Southeast neighbourhood are extremely important for our policy towards BiH. EU enlargement processes, which are in a serious slowdown process, are extremely important for the different aspects of our national security, and for the different aspects of our economic interests and for the different aspects of what we call our national interests. How and how to strengthen the impact of our state policy in this sphere is interested in the Club of Representatives of the SDSS because there seem to be untapped potentials, and not just untapped potentials, there are some kinds of imperatives, because some other actors are much more serious and powerful than we are able to be right now. As far as the questions of the judiciary are concerned, which, under different impressions and different aspects, are today referred to by different colleagues, colleagues, and of course, challenges different media interests. One thing's for sure, we need a more efficient, even more efficient and more professional judiciary than we have. What is equally certain is that the judiciary will not become more effective in any segment, nor in a segment of very emotionalised cases in which the judiciary should act like violence against children and violence against girls of any kind or war crimes and interethnic violence that we went through in the '90s. If the rule or the principle of the people should be obeyed, it was the people through the mouth of the mayor, or it was the people through the mouth of anyone else. The emotional patriotism debated over our differences is an important thing, but it cannot be more important than constitutional patriotism, respect for legality in every segment and place.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165682	This brings us to the end of club exposure, what? No, no, we've come to the end of the presentation by representatives' clubs and now, finally, on behalf of the rapporteur once again, Prime Minister, Honorable Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165683	Thank you very much, President HS. I thank my colleagues and colleagues for the representatives and advocates who today have exposed whether they have given support, whether they have criticised the government's work in the past year or in the past 3rd year at all. I believe that today's report, and here I thank all the members and members of the government and their associates, thank you, too, as parliamentary representatives who have been through the past year and the past 3 years. adopt a number of laws that the Government has proposed, give a review of the facts, concrete, verifiable facts, data relating to the economy, which concerns all sectors that the Government is dealing with in its activities, everything that applies in the broadest sense to the implementation of the principle of solidarity, gave it from social policy, gave it from demographic revitalisation, gave it from the policy of participation of everyone in Croatian society, or is it about security issues, issues concerning military, police, Croatian defenders or our international positioning. A few messages that seem important to me from today's debate are that we must all work together on the reliability, efficiency and independence of our judiciary. This is, in my court, one of the fundamental tasks that will give our fellow citizens more confidence in the functioning of the state institutions, the possibility of achieving our rights, and that all together we will try to understand the principles of the division of the government and the division of the tasks of institutions in the Croatian state, it is very important. We can politically want something in our programmes, in our activities we can put it first, but we must all together as a society, as citizens know who is responsible for what is responsible, these are the fundamental principles of developed democracy, the fundamental principles of a high-quality functioning society. And therefore, as regards the problem that still lives in Croatian society, which is to seek the truth, the questions that remained after the Homeland War, the solving of war crimes issues, we need to create a climate that needs to be brought to the truth that the crimes, or their perpetrators, should be punished, but that the institutions that are responsible for this, cannot do so by political parties. It's a very important message. We must all understand that in Croatian society. I also believe that in one segment that I mentioned at the outset, which has been commented by some of my colleagues in the opposition, it is a question of polarisation or division in society. Have we worked well enough on that recently, have we done enough? It may be the element I'm least pleased with. For a number of reasons, Croatian society may follow some global and European trends and fail to reduce polarisation in society sufficiently effectively and quickly enough. In my view, this is a fundamental issue of the Croatian future. We are a country that has 4 million people, a country that practically all of our neighbors, countries that are north of us envy what we have, in a positive sense, love our country and say it's nice. Most of them think we have what you have, in the best way. There is no strategic task that Croatia has not solved in these 30 years, a free country, a democratic country, an internationally recognised country, a country that has been the victim of aggression, a country which is also a nation that has freed its territory, a country that has solved all strategic national tasks. It has positioned itself in the international community, is part of collective security through NATO, is part of the political, development, legal and economic, continental force given to us by the EU. All that matters is we've solved as a state and as a people. All we have left internationally are literally nuances. All that matters is we've already solved it. And that is why it is the responsibility of all of us today who have the confidence of Croatian people that through the efforts of all and those who have a majority today, those who have a minority to try to bring out one different, better, less exclusive Croatia, it is, in my opinion, the theme of the future, because on the economy, on the consolidation of the budget, on the rise of wages, on increasing social rights, on the development of infrastructure, on the very thorough monitoring and catching of steps with the global trend of the fourth industrial revolution, we are all contributing. Croatia does not go back in any segment, not in any segment. In this segment of the internal, which is layered in terms of division, we have to do more, we have to do more, more tolerance, more respect. So I said at the beginning, this government and our policy is that Croatian minorities should cultivate what they have in the past 30 years and must be included in Croatian society in an adequate way. Only in this way do we strengthen the position of Croats living in neighbouring countries, whether they are a constituent people in BiH and, for example, are minorities in Serbia. Only that way, trying to reciprocate. But we do these things for ourselves, for the homogeneity of our society. It's very important to me because on such issues the structure, the tissue of society shows what it is. We also have to change the social climate, the social climate, if you watch polls, you watch the media, the mood would say that everything is going down, it's a disaster, pessimism prevails, negative prevails. Is that right? That this is the atmosphere in which we live, or the situation is a real thing. I'm not saying that we've solved all the problems, or that everything is pink, but if everything is negative, I don't think it is. And each of us here engages in the final public to make a contribution to making what we do for the future better than it is today. And we must therefore work as political parties, but also other actors in society, however, to create an atmosphere in which there is little more optimism and little less pessimism. That's our job. This is a very important detail for every society because the atmosphere also affects the results in any organization in any aspect, if the atmosphere is dreary, the results are weak, if the atmosphere is a little more positive, the results are better. And just on that trail of debate like today which, unlike this one that will follow in the afternoon, is a little bit different, is more structured, is more peaceful, gives us the opportunity to think about it in such a way and together, and for the benefit of the entire society, regardless of whether someone is right, left, center, conservative, liberal, left-handed or anything else. Let's try to see how we can all create a more optimistic society together because when we really look at everything that's important that this country has had to solve for the past 30 years, it's all important. Practically with that whole aki already behind us. Sometimes we act like it's not, but it is. And that is why these issues that are now open, pay issues, education issues, union roles will be resolved in a well-intentioned manner. It is in everyone's interest that our people are not underpaid to have the circumstances in which they work bigger, for their employment to be higher, for them to be better rewarded for the work they give. And that's why I said today it's not just about procedures and points, it's also about productivity, valorizing impact, paying by impact. It's the concept of the society we've been living in, the system where we've been in for the last 30 years, that's the point, and there's a key to this exercise that I've called on us and those to whom this applies, and these are union representatives, and that's a thorough, professional very precise debate on coefficients. It's one of the most complex questions of all the resistors I've ever seen. I will tell you openly, we have twice as tried to reach a consensus on the bill we would refer to in the Croatian Parliament. Not one single time has a ministry that didn't say it wasn't satisfied, everyone's unhappy because they're all special and different and better than others. Those are your realities. That's why this exercise isn't that simple. And I agree, the injustices of the coefficients of indifference, the different time stages, the different influences of individual ministers, resolutions, parties, politics have left behind a system in which no one is happy. There's no one who's happy and we know it, we're aware of it, but it's our job to try and find a solution if we can find it ourselves. What we've been trying to do is hard to go, and the others haven't made it, the hard it's going, it's just hard it's going. This is what most of you who have been in governments before know very well in the Croatian Parliament. We'll make an effort here. What we've offered today is that I'm going to re-absorbed the very clear messages. We go out to meet as much as we can, even at the expense of some of our own election promises and even the laws already passed because those extra funds that someone might think are missing on the revenue side of the budget, are gone today, are simply gone. They can move up for the next year in half as we said today, only if we leave that one percentage point at the general VAT rate, that's the source of where to take it, otherwise it's not, because let's all be aware if one group asks for 6%, but from the same sector came a request that would go contrary to what was the main principle of the union from primary and secondary education, let's keep up with one segment of high education, but this requirement of high would increase that difference again. It's not the government's request, it's the facts. From other police portfolios, for example, there has already been a request for coefficients. And just when I sum up, only those three segments are basically in the financial frameworks of the total cost of this proposal that we have made today, which goes to everyone and to the state and public, has its logic, has its own justification, and what is most important has consistency in the approach and policy of the government in recent years, while we are acting responsiblely for Croatia and our citizens, has consistency. And if we put it all together then we'll get to almost 18% of the salary only by raising the base, plus for many of our fellow citizens and tax reliefs. I'm not going to speculate on exactly who the average is, but more than 20% of the salary increase is in the mandate of a government. Well, it's a serious step, it's a pretty serious step to not compare to anyone, it's a serious step. He's talking about what we can do in real budgetary possibilities, and if we didn't take down everything we've done in the last year of office, because if we took down everything we've done in the last year of office for three years, it wouldn't be particularly wise, it wouldn't make any sense, not at all. And that's why we came up with this kind of proposal that goes into action and with personal deductions, from 3,800 to 4,000 kuna, I'm talking about a private sector that, after next week and consulting with social partners is also going towards a new significant increase in minimum wage, but not by throwing those employers who have minimum wage employees on their knees, so instead of people getting a bigger salary at the end, they end up without a job because it's a permanent dilemma of that approach, that's the constant dilemma. Anyway, thank you for the debate, for the suggestions, it will be interesting to believe that within about an hour when we see each other again in the dialogue on Minister Kujundzic, and I hope that we will all continue to work together to make our fellow citizens' lives better and better, and that our country will be more orderly, calmer, and I would say ultimately in terms of the atmosphere more optimistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165684	I thank the Prime Minister. I've been told by my associates that my colleague, Maras, has been responsible for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165685	Thank you very much. The prime minister has injured Article 232. The Rules of Procedure, he has moved away from the topic several times, spoke about the government's future work, not the report he filed here today. And he forgot to mention that people are justifiably dissatisfied when they see corruption in the government, when they see injustice in the judiciary, when they see that 25 billion kunas of more income this government has than the government of Zoran Milanovic shares only with their own interest groups. And then you don't have to wonder why people are unhappy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165686	A fellow Maras time's up. I'm giving you a warning because you've abused the Rules of Procedure's breach. Please sit down... Because this is very incorrect, you're violating the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Sit down and get a warning. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And I announce that we continue at 4:30. It's 3:35 p.m. Now we're going to go to the vote on the points we discussed. The first is the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party - Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Party, the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party and the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, I am giving the next conclusion. First, the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is adopted and the second is supported by the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which were presented in the annual report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165688	President-in-Office of the Assembly, I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists because of consultations at the club on this point you have read, as well as a proposal to recall Minister Kujundzic. I am also giving time to members of other committee clubs to think about whether they will accept this report from the government and whether they will ultimately continue to support Minister Kujundzic, who has absolutely done nothing for the past three years for the health sector. Today, two days ago, we should have heard that this government helped to ensure a decent life for the citizens through pension reform. Should pensioners have a decent life? They do. What did the government do? Made 700,000 people collect signatures to demonstrate your pension reform. After three years, did we welcome a more adequate state and public administration? We are, to be of service to the citizens. What did we get? We got this to make pajamas from the county and to make these same mayors politically irresponsible. Was the bureaucratic apparatus supposed to be better so that businessmen and entrepreneurs could make a difference? Yeah. What did you do? Equally bulky and equally rotten. After three years on your part, should we wait for the health care to be so that all citizens have the right to equal care throughout Croatia? Yeah. Did he pay for that health care? Yeah. What did we get? We got a minister who did absolutely nothing after three years, and we got it to have a political pub in this assembly where all these people are making fun of. And it doesn't matter in the end whether you support or not the citizens remember and the citizens see. So think carefully about what you will do when there is a vote One day he'll ask you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165689	Stanka will be approved, reporting on behalf of the party of young counterpart Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165690	Thank you very much. Here is when these pensioners who find the state of play in Croatia came forward, precisely the topic that the Independent Youth List Club wants to discuss after a report by the prime minister that inside some pink glasses looked like Croatia was great, but what we definitely have to say is that after the violent events that the ruling coalition has inside us, it is not clear to us that there is even a proposal for such a conclusion that all of them unanimously support it and actually created one need to discuss it, to discuss what is happening. To discuss, in fact, the report for 2018 should talk about the state of health, this impeachment, which was related to Minister Kujundzic, was not only a statement on him as an official, but a statement on the government's policy on events that occur in Croatian hospitals, on debts that arise and are not being resolved. If we so approach the decision on the proposal that you actually put in place to accept the report, then we ask ourselves why all this is happening around us, and I especially wonder why those who come in on Fridays to support the HDZ proposal are persistently raising their hands, and on the other hand through the media, through their own party hierarchy, play messages that are quite the opposite. I think it's confusing for the people, and I wouldn't want us as agents to be as confused as we are. We're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165691	He approves of a break. Comrade Zekanovic, I see you've reached out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165692	I am also asking for a break to be consulted further, namely, it is often a habit that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia does not mention certain things in his report and hardly mentions the catastrophic demographic situation of Croatia at all. However, what is a major problem that the Prime Minister has presented several false things. The main truth is that in his report he said that the number of inhabitants in Croatia has increased, i.e. that we have 900 and some more inhabitants, or that we have natural growth, which is a notorious lie. In Croatia alone last year, which he claims has grown, the number of inhabitants has dropped by 15,000, I am talking about natural movement and about 15,000 has been reduced by emigration or by people from Croatia. Another thing why the Croatian Sovereigns Club cannot support such a report and scandalous disregard for the Constitutional Court's decision. Namely, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has long ordered the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government to pass a new law, I will call it the Life Protection Act, our Prime Minister calls it an abortion law, and that decision is ignored. And you're ignoring the president of the assembly, so that's scandalous. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court that this law will come into this house and that it will finally be defined. I know you don't have the courage to be false Christian Democrats, but you have enough hands together with the SDP and many other partners to confirm the old, existing law. Be cool, so do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165693	Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Dodig, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165694	I ask a 10 minute break with the intention of consulting members of my club HDS, HSLS and HDSSB in terms of the stance on defence of the government and Minister Kujundzic's reports with the intention of maintaining their identity, expertise, usefulness and action. At the same time, we propose to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament so that we will seek punishment for parliamentary representatives for making incorrect, untrue statements that thus violate the integrity of those who are being distorted. In Croatia, parliamentary anarchies, violations of Croatian parliament's dignity came. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165695	The apartment will be approved. Can I help you with something? Injury of my colleague, Grumo. Here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165696	Dear President, I must react to the violation of all articles of this Rules of Procedure and of the Croatian Constitution, namely my colleague Dodig has announced a blow to freedom of speech here in the Croatian Parliament, punishment to the parliamentary deputies for being told, so fundamental constitutional freedoms have been threatened by the ruling coalition, a repression has been announced against parliamentarians and asphyxiation. The freedom of speech for which our defenders and all those who fought [[The incursion of the president: Thank you.]] for free Croatia, fought, thank you. [[I beg you to sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165697	So, just a little bit, just a little bit, colleague Dodig has announced that a club representative will give you some suggestions to amend the Rules of Procedure, I don't know how you from that concluded that someone will ban you from anything...... He announced that he would suggest something, how he would formulate it, whether he would suggest it, that is, a lot too soon for you to be so afraid that you should not speak. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165698	Thank you very much. I would also say, what my colleague Dodig has just said, it's a direct blow to democracy, violations of constitutional rights that I feel like a representative, means constitutional rights that I feel like a representative here. If he believes that this home should be abolished, let him say so and remain only a ruling coalition that has no need to discuss it with anyone. I mean, we won't. to happen blows within the framework of these... [[Intruder President: Kolega Panenić.]] What happens to us is that these people are trying to make democracy for us. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165699	Believe me, as long as I'm the President of the Parliament, you'll be able to say whatever you want, whatever you want and whenever you want in the process. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165700	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am asking on behalf of the HSS Club and the Democrats for a 10-minute break to invite Mr. Grumoj and Mr. Panenić to explain on this coffee that the mention of the colleague and his club is totally and completely irrelevant in Croatian politics, that it is about Plenkovic's not chips, but the stickers that are now here and more after the next elections you will never see and that they are beating empty straw, I will explain it to you in more detail for coffee, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165701	Comrade Beljak, I ask you to control yourself anyway, talk about your colleagues, you do not have to insult, you can express your opinion in a different way. Comrade Jelkovac, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165702	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague named Beljak injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, insulting colleagues, I think this is really very low in this way to insult their fellow MPs, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165703	That's what I said, and I don't think it's right what he did, and I'm asking you not to do it. Comrade Vučetić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165704	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165705	I'm sorry, just before, I'm sorry, colleague Vučetic, injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165706	I believe that, without reason, a colleague of the HDZ has raised a plate for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that it has actually violated the Rules of Procedure on its own because, in my court, my colleague Beljak has told the truth that is clearly disturbing to some.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165707	Here you go, colleague Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165708	Thank you. After these psychological and emotional expertises that take place in the assembly, I would ask I would like to request a break on behalf of the club regarding the point of election and appointment. [[You're looking for a break?]] In fact, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament does not have a president yet and we are witnessing that many violent elements in Croatian society, from rape to subjugation, let's just say this week that the media followed and this Parliament should have a president for gender equality committees. Since this president comes from the SDP quota, the SDP cannot be agreed on, I suggest that this SDP is agreed on by one man who is certain, who is supported by all in the SDP and this is Bernardic because it is necessary for the Committee on Gender Equality to function normally, that the Committee on Gender Equality participates in the work and presentation of those views that are relevant to the public. What anyone thinks about someone at an emotional and psychological or political level in this assembly, I can only tell you everything you say about each other but what happens in public and cannot be communicated through the board, I cannot believe it and cannot believe that the Committee on Gender Equality has no president, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165709	You're also granted a break, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165710	Technically, the article of the Rules of Procedure has been injured because a colleague did not talk about a point that is on the agenda but would like him and all the public to know that the SDP Representatives' Club has proposed to a colleague Sabina Vosovac as chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it will be at the next session of the Committee on Selection and Appointment and I hope at the next session of the Assembly and if this can be held in this session of the Committee on Selection and Appointing, let us hold a ps and resolve it immediately, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165711	Okay, is anyone else picking up? We've spent 17 minutes and not much of a useful discussion, and in 27 we continue, 12, 27, please be there. MEETING IN 12.17 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.30 HOURS]] Before we continue my work, I would like to welcome the students and pupils of the Ambroz Haracić High School from Mali Lošinj. Hello. ... Comrade Maras, can I help you? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165713	Thank you very much. I just wanted to ask you one thing, Mr. President. Since you keep refusing to put on the agenda the Justice Report and the Đura Sese report that you nominated there as Supreme Court President. We have gathered because of the situation in the judiciary of judges who are made every day in the way they are made, we have collected 31 signatures of MPs which I will now instruct you to finally after two years of the situation in the judiciary become a topic in the Croatian Parliament. I beg you and now you must classify it because the Rules of Procedure on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165714	... I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and 2. The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are supported in the Annual Report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for and 55 against the conclusion proposed by the representatives' clubs. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:35 A.M.]] The government delivered a statement. Now the proposer's representative will give an additional explanation, 30 minutes. On behalf of the promoter, he will speak to the esteemed Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165716	... Mr. Plenkovic, Minister of Health Mr. Kujundzic. [[Specially enabled.]] So fellow MPs and all those who listen to us because this is obviously the debate they've been expecting for a while, and we expect, it's been a long time since we've submitted the request. So a few words why MOST, along with several opposition parties, asked to discuss Minister Kujundzic and to state the reasons why he could no longer be a health minister. To begin with, I would also invite the Prime Minister to provide us with what he said was in the morning, a debate at the height because I think we should talk here today about arguments, the minister probably has his own indicators, but we also have a lot of material that makes us think this is justified, that there are no low blows and personal attacks because I don't think that's in anyone's interest. I'm here as one of the MPs as well as all the colleagues who will talk to the MPs, whether I'm a doctor or any other professions, and today we're talking about health care here and we're only talking about patients who actually have this one of the most complex systems in every country. So the right to health is a fundamental human right. Availability and good organisation of health services for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia under equal conditions, reduction of health inequalities and facilitating access to better and safer healthcare should be our goal and everything else is just the means. So today what we think, patients in the health system get what they're given and not what they need. It's unacceptable, uncivilizing and immoral for us. We need a society that constantly increases the prospects of its sick members and allows all patients the best quality of timely and just treatment, not the other way around. The health sector, on the one hand, characterises its significant potential for growth, innovation and dynamics, on the other hand, the challenges faced in terms of financial and social sustainability and health care efficiency, which is why, among other things, demographic ageing and adverse economic trends exist in our country and in many other countries. Other countries also face growing health care costs, the cost of technological progress in medicine and the inability to meet the overall health needs of the population but other countries are ready to reform the health system. We have bright examples of sustainable systems that have realised in these countries that health system reform is imperative. Unfortunately, this health administration had neither vision nor determination nor capacity in spite of the great potential to increase the efficiency, growth and innovation that can be achieved through coordinated action to establish clear policies for the protection and improvement of existing healthcare. So in Croatia today very rarely decisions are made solely on the basis of arguments and facts, good experiences and international havens. As long as the rulings are convinced that inaction does not endanger their position in power, they will not continue to implement the necessary reforms but we are here today to say that the time of inaction has passed because already the stakeholders of the system see that the water has reached the throat, both doctors and nurses and employers and wholesalerry but primarily patients. Their position was clear about the Minister of the Association's roof doctors, the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Croatian Medical Union and the Croatian Medical Assembly. You are not aware that the presidents and presidents, three roof Croatian medical associations signed a September statement on Croatian medical care and health status in which they agreed and warned the government that the time of inaction had expired by expressing serious and deep concern about the state of Croatian medical care and sustainability of the Croatian health system. They strongly requested that the Government of the Republic of Croatia immediately begin the process of drafting and passing laws on the salaries of doctors and professional or professional collective contract for doctors. As soon as possible, they demand a meeting with the prime minister, as early as possible, in nine months. with pre-defined agenda points. Of course, as representatives of representative health unions, according to this statement, they no longer experience their resolute minister as a relevant counterpart but directly address the prime minister. So all of us here today unanimously call for the prosperity of Croatian health care, the appropriate social positioning of doctors and nurses and the good health perspective of all Croatian citizens. The question is, how honest is it that those who don't make key health moves or those who criticize inaction? And that's why we're here today. One year after the last recall, one year after which we cited some 50 points, which is why the minister should step down, we have already come out with answers to each of these points that were to be taken over the past year, but we haven't gone far. This is why we are based on Article 116(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia and Article 125(1) of the Constitution The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament signed the request and submitted a proposal to raise the issue of trust to Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the following reasons: Minister Kujundzic was responsible for preparing, proposing and implementing the reform of the health system, unfortunately after almost three years of his term he did not even begin. He failed to strategically manage the system as he failed to form a quality team that was able to plan and implement long-term strategic development of the health system. The adopted Health Protection Act after a full decade pointed to its fundamental misunderstanding of the Croatian health system and its values as it failed to adopt the Health Insurance Act in a timely manner. He practically after one debate we have complete silence as far as the matter is concerned, we do not know when he will come to the Parliament, which is why, among other things, the system is currently financially unsustainable. He failed to strengthen primary health care, did not respect a number of critical arguments when adopting the new Health Protection Act, which is why the system continues to be based on an expensive hospital system rather than on accessible primary health care where more than 70% of the health needs of the population should be addressed. He failed to ensure the implementation of the new Health Protection Act and to adopt all sublaws in due time, making it impossible for the county and cities systematically to approve the leases of offices under fair and real conditions for which we bear witness every day, and the city of Zagreb did not begin at all. He failed to re-establish the hospital system, had not accredited or categorized hospitals, functional integration was still only principled but was not implemented in practice as planned and announced. Hospitals should certainly be integrated, but not to violate the principle of accessibility with the aim of achieving equality and efficiency and without the strong political influence of local self-government units that remain present and further politicise the health system. He failed to streamline the health system using best practices using guidance or medical evidence-based evidence and cost-effectiveness analyses. He missed financially stabilising the system. has not reorganised HZZO and methods of payment of services that make the system economically sustainable. He failed to propose a model of long-term resolution of financial commitments to wholesalers and other suppliers, making the growth of debt to healthcare hospitals a serious threat to the collapse of the system. Currently almost all hospitals except for some special businesses are negative. According to our data, the total obligation of health care institutions by the end of September this year amounted to 8.9 billion kuna, with a total hospital obligation of 93% of all health institutions, while hospital obligations reached 99% of all obligations. If we add to this the situation currently happening with major drugs and the situation with complaints about the excessive work of the doctor, we have a serious threat to the financial explosion of the health system. The time-limits for the payment of medicinal products by some health institutions are over a thousand days, with an increase in the price of medicines paid by hospitals in the event of collection by around 30 days or 50%, due to the excess of the legal period of payment. The price of the medicinal product then consists of the basic price of the medicinal product, tight interest, court costs and the amount of non-payment of invoices. Therefore, if you do not know in accordance with the Financial Business Act according to the established, 300 kunas of one-off fee shall also be paid within the legal period of the unpaid invoice. Imagine how many unpaid invoices there are today and what unnecessary cost it is. In order to stabilise the financial system, it is also necessary to correct the prices of health services, to establish realistic limits that allow positive business and ultimately to increase the health budget by ensuring all payments that the Ministry of Finance has denied all these years to be paid to HZZO. I will therefore remind here once again that the state is still not fully paying HZZO the amount provided for in Articles 72 and 82. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act and, on a regular basis, every year since the release of the HZZO from the Treasury, remains in debt to the national insurance company between a billion and a half kuna of unpaid health care funds. To clarify, 30% of the country's citizens pay health care for the 100% of the country's citizens who use it. We are for the solidarity of public health that we are fighting for, but also for the country's bill to the health system to be consistent with that. And finally, a complete lack of human resources management. Health care where the most valuable and irreplaceable resources in health care and its drain will not be stopped by penalization but by encouraging measures and incentives for staying in both Croatia and in less attractive environments. By systematic multi-annual neglect of resolution, unequal regional distribution of medical staff by doctors and nurses, by not taking measures for their stay in Croatia and by not including all stakeholders of society despite warnings, the system has led to the situation that even now in the hospitals of large cities directors are forced to close their departments for lack of doctors and nurses, which was the case for hospitals in small areas only in previous years. The imposition of an illegal overtime captain, incorrectly calculating the value of overtime, exclusion and disenfranchisement in social dialogue with doctors and nurses, is today our reality. So he failed to adopt time-limiting standards and, instead of dialogue, repeatedly tried to influence the judiciary in order to prevent judgments for the benefit of doctors due to the failure of overtime, and those who say that enough doctors in Croatia should say that they work 3 million overtime hours a year. If they withdraw their consent to work more than what is prescribed under the law, the system would stop, stop within maybe 48 hours. If doctors were to charge all their overtime hours, that's maybe more than 2 billion kunas, just so you know what numbers we're talking about. So over the past three years, you've literally done nothing about setting up the situation in the sorority despite numerous warnings and signals from a series of associations and groups on the unsustainability of the education system, you know that they have to go to high school for five years and the necessity to redefine the role of medical systems in the health system. Furthermore, he failed to establish dialogue with nurses in order to protect labour rights and improve the general conditions of work and the lives of nurses and failed to establish jobs for which high-school nurses needed, thereby further detiming them to stay in Croatia and undermining their efforts to acquire higher education. In view of the above reasons, applicants propose to the Croatian Parliament that, following the debate, they decide not to trust Minister Kujundzic, Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165717	We've got 20 replicas, so let's take it in a row. The first one's up, fellow Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165718	My colleagues are shooting, after your exposure it's hardly possible to add anything else, but I'm going to underline one thing. We were here a year ago with the same subject, then the Prime Minister and that health minister explained to us that in the health sector everything was fine, that it would be even better. Five months later, the European Commission's report quotes: The health care system remains a source of public finances risk, hospital debt for medicines is hugely measured in billions. Health outcomes are mostly below the EU average. The structure of the system is not sufficiently consistent with the needs of the population. Now, I'm going to ask you say today should be facts, these are facts. Someone is telling the truth or the European Commission or a couple in front of us. Shall we welcome this same report again? In five months? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165719	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165720	I thank my colleague. So we're here today to talk about Croatian health, because we all want well, and I'm really convinced that my colleagues on the right hand side of the assembly and on the left, my left hand side everybody wants the same thing. And that's why I've once again counted five circular areas where there's no movement. So Croatia really needs investment, a lot of money has been withdrawn from European funds and buildings are being built, but we have forgotten man. A man who works and provides services, doctors and nurses, and we forgot our patients. Patients are not only in Zagreb, patients are not only in Rijeka, they are on islands both inside and in Sinj and Slavonia and they all require a slightly different approach. Of course we have offered some solutions, but despite all our comments in these years There was no movement of the greater. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165721	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165722	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mrs Strenja, a week ago Minister Kujundzic said something that I could not believe I would hear. Mr Kujundzic announced that in Croatia and social cases he will start paying additional health insurance. Such a measure, such a proposal is totally unacceptable to me and to paraphrasise you deeply immoral. I think that such a measure will lead to something that is completely unnecessary for Croatia, which is still deepening the existing major inequality, and restricting access to health care throughout the whole series of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm asking you, if the fact that HZO is in plus 626 million kuna, is it normal, is it normal to ask from Social services in Croatia to pay for additional health care? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165723	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165724	So that's what I'm actually talking about. We boast that we are solid public health and promise, but we are not able to provide it to patients. Until the state fulfils all its obligations under HZZO, it is not necessary to increase supplementary health insurance, and these revenues, meaning the revenues that have been denied is more than a billion and a half a year. So these are all those citizens who don't pay for health insurance at all and those who are due to their illnesses, means psychiatric patients, patients who have cancer, and all of them means prisoners, all children to during their studies, etc. by the end of regular schooling which have been released. It's the law and that's what we decided to do and what we brought. It's an obligation of the state. The government's obligation to pay it to HZZO and they didn't do it. As long as the state doesn't meet There's no reason to increase health care, supplemental health insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165725	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165726	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Strenja, after your presentation I see that this two in knockdown there, almost nothing should be added, but here I will still ask a few questions in 15 minutes you have unmounted this fog of lies sold by Minister Kujundzic, boasts that there is no PR, can't help him any PR, can't help him even the one who left the government because he tried to ban Mark Perkovic Thompson's concert I hear he works for Minister Kujundzic in Zagreb after our firemen won another place, so no one can help him. Why? Because the health system is in huge trouble, in Dubrovnik-Neretva County 30 doctors means constantly missing, we have one team meaning emergency medical care in Sisak-Moslavina County system collapses, so it's over in all County. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165727	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165728	Thank you, colleague, so that's what I said, no more lack of doctors and nurses, it's not just in large hospitals, it's now in smaller cities. The minister failed to do something about human resources and we came into a situation that even a big city like Dubrovnik has big problems, has huge problems and the mayor himself said it's not about as many citizens as there are on the list as there are in Dubrovnik, but as of 200,000 people who come to the tourist hospital that needs that health care, so it's not about 30 doctors who need to fill the specialisation, you know how long it takes until they become specialists, but of 89 specialists of various specialities who come to the Dubrovnik hospital every month to make it work, so it's time for the state to do something, because the cities themselves, the cities that this burden is transferred to, are no longer able to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165729	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165730	Thank you. So, it would be good if you colleagues in your presentation didn't want to talk about the ideological issue in health, so it's pro-life or pro-choice, but we're not going to talk about it today because in health care it's also a part of ideology, but we're going to talk about data today, so I'm going to get a little bit of that, if I get it right and I hear it, so we're paying health services, so we've got payment deadlines that are over 1,000 days, so that's almost 3 years old, and that's the price, mostly medicines, so it's growing over 30%, which is the same fact. Doesn't that smell a bit of corruption to you in this semi-corruption government, too, on some kind of deal? So if prices are 30-40% higher there's plenty of room for some kind of deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165731	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165732	The situation, therefore, is one of the reasons why dialogue with large-scale drugs is not established, which is why we also asked Minister Kujundzic's impeachment, and I will discuss this more specifically later, but the situation with large-scale drugs is not completely clear. So, we have huge debts, and they've come into a situation where they've blocked certain hospitals so they can at least partially charge themselves, and we're paying them now, we've agreed 500 million kuna, but we're the problem, so the drug problem, the price of the drugs we haven't solved. It's not just a matter of particularly expensive drugs, so every month 300 million kunas cost me, it's the price of drugs, 150 million is paid, 150 million goes into debt, we just have to put the system differently, and the question is how much we've achieved the right price with reference because we're comparing ourselves to countries that are a little bit more west than countries and references. I need to go to countries that are a little bit more [[Intruder: Thank you]] our economic status. [[/Agreement: A colleague of Sladorov please.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165733	.../Intruder: Here you go...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165734	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Strenja, you have touched a lot in your presentation, but I would mention another problem, and that is a worrying increase in the number of synthetic drugs seized and the increase in the number of new synthetic drugs. We have cases where actually these pills are being dealt through primary and secondary schools windows and the entry of children into the world of drugs is getting lower, so in your opinion, why has the national anti-addiction strategy not yet been adopted, even though it is written, what is waiting for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165735	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165736	The inaction, therefore, has not been adopted for a year, although it has been written, a national strategy to fight addiction has not been adopted since 3rd g. The national strategy for the fight against cancer, and we are absolutely at the beginning, before we are only Hungary, reminding me that my first thematic session when I entered HS was about the need to adopt a national plan to fight cancer, then Minister Nakic formed a commission that continued and already after 3rd year. We are not further, no national strategy has been adopted to fight dementia and Alzheimer's means other dementias, no national strategy has been adopted to fight a stroke, a whole series of strategies stand in drawers, the most frightening thing for me is that no national strategy for children has been adopted, for children's and adolescents' psychiatry standing in drawers written, and at this point We don't have one baby bed [[Intruder: Thank you]] From Rijeka to Dubrovnik where we will put a child who has mental problems. [[/Employer: A fellow Dobrojevic Go ahead.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165737	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Strenja, you have brought much into your presentation, and I have seen somewhere that the Republic of Croatia stands very badly in one statistic, and it is the alcoholism of young people until the age of 16. where we are in the invisible third place in Europe. It seems to me that this is quite the problem of this ministry and that it should be tackled with this problem, especially since we have a general acceptance of such behaviour, and as a parent, I was shocked by the usual practices, so in clubs where children come out at the table, where alcohol drinks are served as practically one ticket. Do you think something would be done here?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165738	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165739	Thank you. So we had the impression that the minister really saw that there was a problem with both alcoholism and smoking, but I think that he saw it primarily in a way that eventually reduces lung cancer pain and strengthens our budget, means health budget. I think that the strategies in terms of reducing alcohol and smoking especially alcohol in the adolescent age require a slightly different approach, which means that the Ministry of Education and Science must be involved, and I think that prevention and the way in which models of behaviour and access to this topic should be built much earlier, means even in primary school and include all those around that child. Unfortunately, there is no clear strategy in the Republic of Croatia to fight alcoholism because we know that about 500,000 people who regularly consume alcohol, how secondaryly those are family members who suffer because of excessive... So the strategy should be much clearer than just a ban. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you very much. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165740	Comrade Stranger, please stick to your time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165741	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of Strenja, we are both medics, we know that medicine is based on evidence, and I often say that I love and a fact-based policy, so I hope that today we will talk about the facts of why we are not satisfied with the solution managed by Kujundzic. Among other things, what I want to emphasize in this replica, which is that we know that in Croatia above the European average is mortality from cardiovascular disease, from heart attack, from strokes, from death in car accidents, and there is no dilemma that the absence of care is due to so-called. The golden hour. Therefore, although there is a project, although we have all pointed out, from professional associations to politics that we need an emergency helicopter medical service, nothing has been done in this mandate and I am afraid that by the end of this term, Minister Kujundzic Croatia will be left without an emergency helicopter medical service.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165742	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165743	Thank you. Yeah, that's a question that you actually need a little bit more to say in this debate, which is that nothing really has been done. And today it means 28, 29 years from those helicopters we were riding on in the war, and today we depend on these military helicopters. We're the only country in Europe that uses military helicopters. Last year, in an explanation following the government's impeachment, the minister wrote, and said that the funds secured, 35m euros, were going to start to purchase, in this indication there is no such thing. So I don't know where we are with that, it's about boats now, it's about analysts, labs, so lab analysts. The purchase for these analysts was 2016. More contests, so it's not over yet, it's been going on for a very long time, and we don't know where we are with these helicopters, unfortunately, we missed what we needed, we're a tourist country, and besides our citizens, we owe so one country that belongs to the European circle we have, unfortunately we don't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165744	Thank you. Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165745	... Mr. President. [[Specially enabled.]] Comrade Strenja, you said at the beginning of your presentation that, even in the summer, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most and other MPs and other opposition parties, we had submitted a request for discussion and a vote of confidence to the Minister of Health. And to remind the public, we did it on July 22nd and we're waiting for a full three months. to discuss the work of the ministry and the Minister of Health. And unfortunately it is probably a record in the history of the Croatian Parliament to wait 3 months. to discuss such a matter. If both the government and the prime minister and the minister think they've been doing well in a behavioural resort, that's why they're stalling 3 months. to discuss the burning issue that we will discuss in a day and night-round discussion today, a number of shortcomings in the health care system?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165746	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165747	Yeah, I think it went the way the prime minister himself didn't want it, so expecting that by stalling him in some way he would forget the whole story because that quick act made those ministers against whom they were, and it was also a request for impeachment, in fact, problems and piled up, the problems accumulated as far as the negotiations were concerned, as far as the medical sisters were concerned, as the hospitals were blocked, the hospital in Knin, the veteran hospital, let's not forget, the debts of wholesalers really came to the situation that they threatened other hospitals, so the problems just grew. I'm in favour of always bringing up problems and getting rid of them quickly. So the worst thing is not to make a decision, the decision has to be made whatever it is because a delay in this system can have devastating consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165748	Comrade Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165749	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed colleague of Strenja. I didn't lift the plate before you started talking like some of my colleagues so far but when you started talking then two things made me want to say. You're paraphrasing. 59 The Constitution where you have said that everyone has the right to health care, you have not continued, and the Constitution says "in accordance with the law". It's about a similar parallel to an art. 55 where everyone has the right to work, and yet not all of us are employed and there is no employment in any country. However, I agree with you when you said that the problem of social sustainability, that the population of all European countries is getting older and that all countries have problems with sustainable health. I'm very interested, You said some have made reforms [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And they've taken care of it all. [[Break president: colleague Reiner, thank you.]] What countries have solved all their reforms?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165750	Answer, please. Please stick to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165751	So Denmark, Slovakia, Romania, which I'm talking about, means Romania that has 489 euros per capita, we now have 803, Europe has 3000. So Romania, which is one act, I, as chairman of the parliamentary committee, asked their parliament to deliver the law to me. I got the law. In one day, Romania raised 172% of the salary by law to doctors. We're not looking for that. One act brought back doctors, you don't have doctors, they're a system, they're the ones that carry the system as well as nurses. The nurses raised 50%. There's a whole series of solutions. I'll repeat later in the debate, so financial stabilizing the system doesn't just mean increasing the wages to those who carry the system but it's one of the solutions that the system doesn't lack people. So the reorganization of hospitals, you know that Denmark has reduced the number of hospitals, is as big as our country, had the same number of hospitals as us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165752	Thank you. Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165753	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Strenja, if someone uninvited actually read your proposal for your interpellation opposition, this is your sixth proposal, you would actually think that in Croatia there is no health care, that people are being treated on the streets alternatively, that in fact everything collapsed and that the successes of Croatian health care and its doctors actually speak more of strangers than you collegiately about your colleagues. By the time Mr. Kujundzic arrived, about 30, 40 or 50 million kuna were spent in the post of Minister of Health for specialist medical training. Only the last competition spent 187 million kunas increased by 30, about 217 million kuna, which resulted in more than 30 homes of health and more than 20 emergency medical services. Do you even know what the number of specialist trainings assigned is? Doctor of medicine since he arrived? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165754	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165755	It's too short this time to answer such a complex question, it's all clear to me. So, the reform of the system doesn't start from this government, neither did it start from the previous government, nor did it, it has to last through more governments, so long-term neglect, so those on my right have ignored specialist training, and even those before, the government before, because there was a crisis, there was no money, so the minister ran into a situation when he came into the situation that already in 2016 the start of the withdrawal of funds for day hospitals, for OHBPs, means united emergency hospital receptions, for specialist training, started now, and will likely continue through the next government of whatever it was. So let's not talk about it because it's just something that's withdrawn and it's just a process that's been going on all this time, so I was in 2016 and I know how we've arranged day hospitals, so it's not just the result of this government, but it's also going to continue after this government and the next one, probably, in that sense. So, specialistly, perfecting was just a sequence of what [[Intruder: Thank you]] which was the withdrawal of funds that began. [[/Intruder: Fellow Petrijevčan, please be my guest.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165756	Here you go, fellow Petriyevcan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165757	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In your melodramatic speech, I have not actually heard any valid argument for the replacement of this minister who sits here, no one disputes that there are problems in the Croatian health system and no one reduces the importance of these problems. But what's a fact, unlike your melodramatic speech, is that this government, in the term of office of this minister and these governments, is indeed working to improve the health system by not reducing the importance of these problems. And you also manipulated and mistakenly interpreted it as the last 3 years. on the issue of Croatian citizens' right to health, in the last 3rd year. It's never been questioned, it's incorrect. Also, there is no shortage of drugs in the Republic of Croatia, and there are no epidemics in our country that could be misread from your initial exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165758	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165759	Ma'am. MPs, despite your crying manner in which you explain that I speak melodramaticly, I know the system very well. So before I sat in these benches, I was over 20. I worked, worked in that system and was a clinic boy who looked at patients every day and now I work in the system every Monday, Monday and Tuesday at my clinic. I know well that this system exists based on our top doctors and sacrificial and quality nurses and will survive despite you who are not 3 years old. managed to complete the call for analysts, for the laboratory that was called at the time, the 2016 tender was not yet completed, only that, analysts then, if there were those analysers, if we needed them now, means obviously that, perhaps some lives would be saved, just for that one tender 2016 laboratory analyser. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165760	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165761	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Strenja, you said what it looks like globally, I want to give you a picture from the patient's perspective or try to give it, especially in the light of the availability of healthcare that the minister spoke of on Croatian radio this morning. Namely, imagine the situation, you have a patient on crutches, in pain, you can't stand, and you know the earliest term when it can be ordered for a specialist review, the first specialist review, on January 19th, our people have a saying, says until then who lives, who lives, who dies, in this case, unfortunately literally and when you say our citizens have the right to health, so they have the right to health if they survive until then, if they survive until then. For example, when an X-ray machine breaks down in the House of Health Osijek, it's waiting at the hospital for a month for an X-ray, you know how much it's a diagnostic method that's wanted, useful and that has to be used quickly, sending people to Nasice who are 50 km away, it's not everyone can afford, so much o Health. [[/Intruder: Here's the answer.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165762	So, colleagues, waiting priority lists, none of the health systems have been fully resolved. So today, you'll be waiting in Great Britain for 2nd. Hook because it is not urgent for you because by then you will be going through everything you need, etc., the minister has introduced priority lists and it is good, 23 000 citizens have succeeded in achieving their right and timely arrive, 90% of them have been justified urgent, but what about those who are actually urgent, but their doctors have not done it, they do not need to do it within a week of processing because they do not have cancer, but also because they did not come in time, their health will get worse, we are talking about it. Today one citizen sent me a message, was ordered at 4 months that today, this week actually, she can't, she got a second appointment for the 4th month next year, so it wasn't just said today she doesn't work doctor, so come on for She's, like, ordered herself again today. [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's a problem, the system doesn't work the right way. [[Intruder: Dear colleague Mrak Taritash]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165763	Comrade Sneezing, please stick to the time. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165764	Thank you very much. Dear Strenja, I feel like I'm in that movie "Enfinite Day", and then wake up every time, too. So, we had this debate, and then the minister explained to us that we didn't understand it very well because he was doing a great job, so I'm curious that you were like someone who was preparing and this, this proposal and that we signed, which we all recognized together that it happened in a year, did the minister tell us that it just didn't, what happened in the last year, that these improvements were or that it happened to us the other way around that it actually deepened both worse and worse. For me, the greatest sin he's ever had is the minister's sin of indemnity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165765	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165766	It would take a long time, so I'd have to be reminded again by this president HS, but so it's not all about equipment and not everything in the buildings, what really bothers me is what we started to promise that Chinese building and a new hospital in Klis that we didn't sit down and say if we needed it at all in that location and what in Split really needs? So, if we want to build a hospital system, so I guess some kind of brain trust needs to sit down and say what kind of hospital system we want in Croatia for the next 30 years, at least that. So, we can say we're building a hospital in Pula, it's great to finally finish, who's going to work there, I don't know, there's no people, believe me, we're going from KBC to help there, we're building a hospital in Rijeka, finally, it's time for Rijeka to finally get something new, but where are the people. So, systematic neglect of human potential, and this has repercussions to patients, because patients don't need an overworked doctor who examines 51 patients, and you should actually do that day. Look at the 20 and the overworked sister. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165767	Comrade Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165768	Thank you. My colleagues, Strenja Linic, as a doctor, as a former longtime health minister and a member of the World Health Organization Executive Board with full credibility, argues that the Croatian health system is better than all health care systems similar to and even greater GDP. Of course, it is not only the merit of Minister Kujundzic, but it has also made a significant contribution to this, so robots in surgery, daily hospitals in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia, multiple increases in funds for rare diseases and expensive medicines, so all of which is therefore the achievements of this health system. On the other hand, you've been running a second initiative for a year to replace a minister who's inconsequential, useless and unspective. So I don't really know what's wrong with you, what the hell is here for this destruction in a situation where tens of thousands of illegal migrants cross Croatian borders, when it happens. reconfiguration of political.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Europe, when there's a lot we can contribute to. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Ljubic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165769	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165770	A colleague of yours who you think I don't know how to add that you'll have enough hands to vote against this proposal again. I think the state of health, the financial situation in health, the human resources we have to address so important that there has to be one session dedicated only to health, and it's not the law to say what it's about. Do you know how much we have actually insisted that the Mostar Hospital that you should talk about, to achieve cross-border cooperation that people from Metkovic have if they have a heart attack or stroke can come there and achieve their urgent and urgent help, but do you know that it was agreed and signed with Isola, that people from Istria from Umag can go there and that the minister took it off to be the first to go towards Mostar. That's what I want all citizens in Croatia to have equal access to health care Not to depend on the political resemblance of part of the country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165771	Thank you. Comrade Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165772	Unresponsibly criticise and say that nothing has been done. You had a chance but you weren't so constructive when you were, among other things, the president of the assembly and the minister. Two billion and 200 million kunas have been invested in healthcare in these last two years. You're from Rijeka, from my neighborhood, I hope you see and appreciate when you listed that list and you gave the minister what he missed, so you should point out that at least it's something big that's being built and how much it costs, and I think it's proud of all of us, and this government and the Prime Minister and the Minister. So it's easy to sit in an opposition bench, it's easy to criticize and do perfomanses, but obviously it doesn't suit you when you have to bear responsibility, make decisions and stand behind them as this minister, prime minister and his government does.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165773	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165774	HDZ has worked very hard to reduce all of that, all of my engagement that I've done running and trying to start talking to a Rijeka hospital. It's now forgotten, we can do it later. So, all the luck that both HDZ and MOST together wanted that hospital and Minister Maric was and really felt how important it was and entered the budget. So, don't speak to me well, I know what's going on with this hospital, and I said Rijeka finally got it, but don't forget that the minister, that Prime Minister Milanovic made the decision to build it, but he didn't make a decision on multi-annual borrowing, so we did it, and then she continued this government. It's to me, look it goes through more governments and such projects need to go through more governments, they really need to go through more governments and every honor, but while MOST was in government and while we have its deputy minister for the first time it's allowed for doctors to work out of full Working hours and a rule on specializations has been passed, and I'll talk about it later. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165775	Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165776	Dear colleagues of Strenja, considering that health issues are most sensitive, that citizens are the most sensitive through the health portfolio to attack the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Health you are calling out for on-call guilty, looking for his head, I can accept the criticism, but I cannot accept when isolated, tragic cases or any individual medical mistakes are used to criticise the health system as a whole, and then so can the Minister of Health. Health care is expensive, although we've been assured for a long time, we lived in a system where they told us everything was free. I'll remind you of the year 2015 when you said supplemental health insurance should be increased, today as an opposition, you're not saying that. I'm asking you again, would you like to increase your supplementary health insurance? A constructive criticism that, cheap politics doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165777	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165778	My friend Cell, do you really think he'll do it? Yeah? [[Intruder: Just a little fellow Sneezing...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165779	... some kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Turn off your coworker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165780	The violation of Article 238, nobody here during the interpretation means and the debate did not mention a single tragedy in our health system and Colic's colleague was actually, in fact, deliberately manipulated to go misleading the public. No one mentioned any tragedy in our health system, the first one to do it here in the debate is you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165781	Comrade Thunderbolt, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure here... I ask you what you have done is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you are being warned, so please give up your colleague Cellic because I have warned my colleague there has been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165782	The Rules of Procedure, Article 238, a colleague of Grmoje, remember Zapresic and remember the first request for the recall of Minister Kujundzic, what is it? I'd be worried about that Mostar fellow Strenja mentioned to you from the Metkovic MOST, that's what I'd be worried about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165783	I'll give you a warning, too, because you've abused the Rules of Procedure. No, he can't. You will be disfellowshipped from the debate after the second notice. ... Because you're violating the Rules of Procedure on purpose with the aim of replicating your colleagues. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can stay in line. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The order is designed so that we can function normally, which is why the rules are designed, not that everyone does what they want them to do. Here's my colleagues, Sneezing, reply to the replica. You're giving up, okay. Then let's go to the next line. It's a colleague of Jurič-Martinchev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165784	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Companions of Stronja, the most common term you used in your presentation was inaction. The inaction on all kinds of issues and problems that you're trying to say is that nothing on any of these issues has been done. Do you think anything has been arranged during this government and this minister? 1.9 billion kuna of new health projects, an additional 312 million kuna for effective human potential, the first robotic surgical system was obtained, 66 contracts with 39 health homes and 21 emergency medical services for 212 specialization were signed, a joint public procurement for about 30% of medicines and consumer materials was introduced, the possibility of rewarding workers for special and nat average workers' results and so on. Do you think it's all nothing?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165785	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165786	You're a good reader. So you should look for this answer in the European Commission which clearly told you that in Croatia there are bad outcomes, that they are not implemented at sufficient speed of health reform and that there is a need for a little different organisation of the health system itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165787	Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165788	The Honorable President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister. Dear MPs. I don't understand and I don't accept what you're saying because I am part of the system and I know the values Minister Kujundzic is doing and trying. You mentioned at the beginning of the iniquities and some 50 sins of Minister Kujundzic. We Catholics have seven deadly sins, but not the fact that you can call the start of building a new hospital, whether you can call a plan to build a national children's hospital, whether inaction is not participating with expensive medicines and treatments that many richer countries have to pay for. By the way, you mention the financial stabilisation of the system. You must know that all health care systems operate with eight to ten percent missing in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165789	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165790	My friend Kirin, we weren't just criticizing. We have offered concrete solutions exactly by each point what should be done. If that were to happen, at least half of it would have been our two hands up for this minister because he's really on his way. We need health reform. So I don't care about the name of this minister, I'm interested in the minister who will re-schedul the Croatian health system and start from the beginning in a completely different direction. We missed too much time. There was a crisis, so we waited, so we had to put together a new government, and that's what we've been waiting for for all those years. We have concrete answers to what needs to be done to make the system significantly better.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165791	Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165792	Dear President, dear colleagues. I don't know if you know the information if we're going to talk about the fact that a tender for 587 specialization has been called here since 2015, that the time of the SDP government has been reduced, that the coefficients and values of DTS and DTP have then been reduced from 8,600 to 4,600 and that only this government has raised that value to 7,650 so far and over 8,000 kuna at this point, so no amount of 8,655 has yet been reached. So, what is the crime of this minister and this government if it corrects a lot of what happened before?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165793	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165794	Thank you. Do you think, not you, do your relatives and do Croatian citizens think that the health system is good throughout Croatia, do citizens think it is good? They don't think so. Listen a little, even the president says listen to any of your people. So this system exists because of quality doctors and nurses. You're talking about the SDP government, of course I've always been an opposition to Komadini in Rijeka, believe in two terms in the county. So do they have the rocks? Yeah. Was it a crisis? Yeah. Did the need start and manage to withdraw the funds for the specialization? Yeah, but I don't think that's enough. You know why? Because this government has done nothing to reduce these limits, the limits have not been increased. The price of health services is predominant. Today the operation of the appendix is 3,200 kuna in that price is 150 kuna anaesthesiologist and nurse.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165795	Thank you very much. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165796	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Let my fellow Linic put it this trivially, there are parts that are original, there are replacement parts. In medicine, artificial joints are built in, and I say so from the point of view of patients who can't decide which one of their joints will be embedded. A colleague here boasted that there was a united public procurement, and I think that public procurement is just a problem in the Republic of Croatia. It's not always that the cheapest product is ultimately the cheapest. We don't know at this point what the percentage of re-op is, so it's a patient trauma, it's the re-cost of anesthesia of all that's been done. The problem should be addressed for two reasons, the first thing that is public procurement is the lobby of corruption, and the second thing is that patients get real protection because we do not know how many percent of them there are, suffers trauma both after surgery and after the installation of such inadequate construction products.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165797	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165798	So hospitals, especially small hospitals, with small limits were put into a situation that I could not do a good enough job. When you have a Knin hospital, a veteran hospital, which 3 million kunas must pay for wages, and its limit is 2 million and 700, where there are drugs, where there is energy and where there is food, where everything other than pay to the employees, these are the limits and, of course, it is blocked after a certain time. Do you know that 15 defence beds were promised a million kuna, so they put 500,000,00 and they put at 250,000,00 there are no defenders there now in bed because there's also some procedure that requires the commission to be resolved, and only then to come, not as promised only with the manual, that's the problem. So we have to think that there are hospitals and there are patients out of Zagreb, outside of Rijeka, outside Split, but as soon as we move away, we get into a situation where these hospitals can't survive and there's no good situation They survive because of those who fight still [[Intruder: Thank you]] But it's not good. [[Agreement: Thank you colleagues of Sneezing]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165799	Now Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will speak for the government for 15 minutes according to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165800	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear MPs and MPs, the government rejects all allegations from the second proposal to launch a trust issue with Health Minister Milan Kujundzic. Minister Kujundzic is responsible for carrying out his tasks, his tasks in health care, and is committed to working on measures to ensure a financially sustainable health system that will provide healthcare to citizens and ensure accessible and quality health care. The government has taken a number of steps to improve and modernise Croatian healthcare. If we compare it with earlier governments that created new debts in health care, made inaccessible certain health services, created waiting lists without setting the right priorities and failed to invest in modernising hospitals and hospital equipment, we believe that we have achieved a significant step. Debt in the health system has been inherited and it is understandable that until full economic momentum and major inflows of funds in HZZO are reached, it is not possible to achieve absolute financial stability of the health system. However, we expect to achieve a longer-term rationalisation of the costs of the health system through the measures we implement in several areas. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We directed an additional 1.3 billion kuna to the health system, we reduced the obligations of the Croatian health system from the end of 2016 from 8.2 billion kuna to 7.8 in 2017. In 2019, significant funds were provided for particularly expensive medicines, it is 1.5 billion kuna, which is an increase of 100% compared to the 2015 allocated budgets. We paid 300 million kunas for the drugs delivered, and of the 500 million that should be paid to them by the end of the year, and before this year we paid to the wholesalers. The use of EU funds has helped improve the quality of Croatian health care, we address the issue of united emergency hospital receptions, daily hospitals, day-to-day surgery, vulnerable groups projects, primary health care, as well as professional education of healthcare professionals. Within the framework of the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion agreed projects of 2.2 billion kuna. The government has set out to modernise 29 hospitals, a number of other projects to increase the level of health services, modernise hospital equipment and improve working conditions. We remind you that during 2017 and 18, we realized the functional integration of 12 hospitals with the aim of restructuring and modernisation, as well as the rationalisation of costs. We have brought a national plan for the development of clinical hospital centres, clinical hospitals, clinics and general hospitals for 2018-2020 to ensure that the activities started on the reform of the hospital system are continued. You have launched a series of capital investments, such as the one you listed in Rijeka, a hospital in Pula, a project of a national children's hospital in Blat, a national medical robotics centre, a translation centre for paediatrics in Srebrenica, a whole series of other investments throughout the Republic of Croatia regardless of who is at the local level or a project started by an earlier government, it is important to bring projects to an end. In order to improve standardisation of public procurement procedures, a reorganisation was carried out in the part of the public procurement, which was organised in one place, which is the Ministry of Health. We especially care about the project we are working on, a project of the central management system aimed at ensuring better management of the hospital system, better management of information, monitoring of all health indicators, e-ordering of all healthcare services. We're working this project with professors from Harvard University, special agile teams within our health system. They want to raise the level of transparency in the business of health institutions, performance and quality indicators, continuously develop and evaluate to enhance overall business efficiency and quality of services to patients. A national anti-cancer programme will also be adopted by the end of this year, a project built by experts in the co-ordination of the health minister and with very valuable and high-quality international reviews. A new Health Protection Act has been adopted which regulates the organisation of primary health care activities, strengthens the role of home health, strengthens the specialised consular health care at the primary level which has not been sufficiently represented so far, introduces on-call services in family medicine, the health care of pre-school children and dental health care carried out by health homes and private healthcare professionals who carry out medical activities in the office. Palitative care at primary level is enhanced. One of the newspapers is also the National Register of Health Care Providers, which will include all healthcare providers. The possibility of rewarding for the average results of workers performing health care activities has also been introduced. The area of health tourism that was not before has been arranged. The new law introduces a functional integration model for emergency service activities at all levels of health activities. Also, we will put emphasis on the education of nurses, medical technicians in emergency teams. The organisation's efforts are being made in emergency helicopter medical services for the European funds project planned at EUR 35 million. It's about the funds at the DOD's position. The establishment of a maritime medical service for transport of specialized ships is under way. We especially want to ensure through the purchase of 6 boats the availability of services on the islands of Mali Lošinj, Rab, Zadar, the area of Zadar, Sibenik, Brac and Dubrovnik islands. Also, additional EU funds of 45 million kuna have been provided for this purpose. The highest value of the Croatian health system is undoubtedly the doctors, nurses, the entire health care staff who, recently after the end of the border collective agreement, signed the supplement and regulated the supplements i.e. We made it possible to raise the salary we talked about a little bit this morning. Also, using European funds, we have allocated 187 million kuna to the specialist training of medicine doctors, we have increased nearly 30 million kunas and provided funding for the specialization of 212 specialists. We also increase the quality of life for those suffering from severe illnesses. Not only have we increased the budget for particularly expensive medicines, you saw the inclusion of new medicines at the HZZO press conference yesterday, we made a special effort when it comes to children with spinal muscle atrophy, not only has Spinraza been placed on the list of medicines but we are in agreement and active engagement with another pharmaceutical company Hoffmanm la Roche managed to get Croatia into a clinical trial and our patients are also receiving this medicine. All together, 31 children are treated with 8 on the respirator and 7 adults. The company La Roche has recently signed a contract that will allow the financing of the construction of a special laboratory in KBC Zagreb for the research of personal medicine and the treatment of malignancies, the most modern methods of world-class practice. It's all part of our social solidarity policy. This government, as in other areas of which you have had the opportunity to hear a little more in today's report, is taking measures to implement reforms in health care. For a better position and health professionals, but above all for the availability and quality of services to our patients. Changes in the organisation of healthcare, better primary health care, strengthening preventive activities, developing an effective emergency medical system, creating assumptions for better human and other resources management and better patient health protection are the main runways of the activities of Minister Kujundzic and the entire government in this domain. Since our health system provides a quality service, and compared with more developed EU members, we are investing much less resources per capita, we need to find a balance of rationalisation and finding a way to make our system more efficient. I would also like to say that by acting on the trail that we have done so far by rationalising, by putting all stakeholders on the table, by finding better solutions for financing the health system, we will continue to improve healthcare, and Minister Kunjundzic has an important role in this regard. I believe this debate will end as well as last year's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165801	Health Minister Kujundzic will now address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165802	Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, I welcome you all, and I thank you all very much on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Ministry, on behalf of myself, on behalf of the Croatian people, for making this debate possible today. In the beginning I will talk about how it works in science and profession, the numbers in results, and then since in Croatia other than paper medics for whom false cathedrals are invented are not existing, three times the Commissions are invented and elected are teachers there are top experts who know and think and the prime minister mentioned personalized medicine, in the second part I will personally address you and I think that Croats need the truth, talk nicely with the truth, we look into the eyes, not at the personal level, but who is who, who did what we did, what we gave to our people, who gets paid for nothing, who did anything in life, and especially in Croatian medicine, and who gives this one gives something. So let's go with these numbers now. Looking at what's most important, human resources are the most important. So I'm gonna go back a little bit to the moments in history, we'd better look at it. So in 2015, there are 14,400 doctors in the Croatian health system, now around 15,300. With regard to sisters three years ago during the SDP, 29,000 nurses are working in the Croatian health system, and now 31,000. With regard to wages, you are all concerned about wages I see, 2015 medium professional prepares with night duty average 5,800, is now 6,700, higher and high professional preparation 2015. 6,500, it's 7,300. Now sisters and doctors have regressions and goddesses. You abolished their regresses and Christmases, if the minister had stayed then he would have abolished Christmas probably, but luck had lost the election so they left so Christmas was not abolished in Croatia. I'm asking you nicely to count a little bit so you'll get a chance later,...there's personalized medicine. So let's move on, this government wasn't waiting for the end of the term, but at the beginning of the term of office on January 1, 2017, it pays 2%, and then in row 2.3 to a total of 18%, so the salaries to nurses and doctors have been increased by 18%, and in SDP's time are a reduction. So don't defend their salaries anymore, please, do damages and everyone knows you, we all know each other in the system. And the same system headed by the then minister who now wants to discuss has made the most embarrassing act in the history of world medicine, I look up at my colleague Mrsic so he abolishes doctors are not representative and doctors become an entity that cannot negotiate, so the shameful act that the whole world is laughing at. Let's go on talking nicely, I'll listen to you and we'll talk nice. So, what you've been doing with the reduction of the base coefficients, we're not going to talk about it right now. Let's go now for what we've been doing. So, as far as withdrawing from the eu funds, we have withdrawn the maximum, this ministry, this government maximum from the eu funds 100%, so 2 billion and 200 we have withdrawn and invested in Croatian hospitals, not somewhere else but in Croatian hospitals and literally every day doctors and nurses are thanking this government, this prime minister and especially those who work in the health system all they get, and then I'm going to tell the numbers again what they get now, and what they got a few years ago. We can all say now that we're going to build a hospital on the moon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165803	Minister, thank you very much. I'm sorry. [[/Intruder Kujundzic: I'm done already?]] There'll be time. [[Oh, my Lady, I'm just getting started.]] Here's how we have 13 replicas for the Prime Minister and 10 replicas for the Minister. Well, here we go. First up, the esteemed coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165804	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. I have to correct you, you found the Pula Hospital in construction, you didn't start it, the problem is you can't finish it. But what I want to ask you about is something else, you mentioned in your exposure to health insurance problems, filling the HZZO budget. Mr. Minister is constantly talking about how additional health insurance must be increased, announcing that it will also be paid by the social services. On the other hand, for a year now, you won't answer my question, do you think it's okay that certain private insurance companies don't want to provide, don't want to receive into the DZ system a person over 65 years of age or sick even though it's their legal obligation. My question to you is, are you not answering that question because you don't know what the law says, because you don't know how to enforce the law or because the wife of Mr. Minister is the director of a private health insurance company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165805	Thank you, comrade Grbin. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165806	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, one of our notifier athletes from the constituencies of the parliamentary benches of the applicant to the committee you have this fellow vice president... You're together, you're together. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can see that you've both slipped, it's always important to mention it, it's very important as a character trait. That's the first one. Secondly, you are the one who was not worthy to come to the government meeting in Pula, and you represent Istria and Pula and the Croatian public should know that. Third, unlike you, the mayor of Istria County is a man with whom we have not talked three times but agreed in detail how to find 750 million kuna for the completion of the General Hospital in Pula that will increase health care in Istria and Pula. And as for these questions of yours, there is no increase in the D.O.O., and the minister will answer these family questions... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165807	Thank you, Prime Minister. We're going after the Rules of Procedure's injuries, two. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165808	The Honorable Prime Minister has injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because it offends the minds of all of us here in the Assembly and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. He avoids answering specific questions concerning the conflict of interest of the minister, and at the same time he calls me for not wanting to come to the government's meeting in Pula for the simple reason that I will not be and sit where I can only listen, and not ask questions do not fall to me Mr. Prime Minister in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165809	This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know very well, and I am forced to give you a warning. You, too, have reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165810	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I also believe that you should have warned the prime minister because Article 238, in particular by calling a colleague of the coat of arms, did not attend a cabinet session when it was held in Pula. On the other hand, my colleague Linic, for example, accidentally spoke to her before the assembly that wanted to attend the session, answered that she was unfortunately not in enough room. So the Croatian public is clearly being deceived not only by MPs but also by the Croatian public, and it is very ugly by the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165811	Comrade Voter, you know there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, and you're also getting a warning. Now let's go to another replica, dear fellow Highash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165812	Your Honor, Prime Minister. As an economic genius, I'd like you to explain something to me, the winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics. So today you mentioned how much that the SDP government owed 17 thousand kuna to especially the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We hope you didn't calculate to take over the debt from the shipbuilding, the railways, the airline industry, but irrelevant. Let's explain this phenomenon, how the health minister was successful if in 2015, for example, the total debt reached, so the hospital, the health system, was 2 billion today, is 4 billion. And the one who mentions the Croatian people, I immediately grab my wallet because I'm afraid when I call on someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165813	Answer, please. Prime Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165814	Thank you, well-respected representative Hajdas Doncic, the suspended SDP vice president, who has been a little less demanding lately and above all, the applicant above all, the notifier who seems to be a little touched when he's told it, but that's good. Look at what you did from 2012 to 2015, there are several of you who were then in the government and also in the parliamentary majority at the time, and we have evoked the results today. I'm nice, I've reminded them, I know that you don't want to remind yourself, count that people don't remember it, don't see it, don't hear it, don't remember it, I know that you won't brag about it, so we have to remind ourselves, we have to remind ourselves because it's important that people know what your aki was and today you could hear what our aki is, i.e. Achievement. The difference is very large and thank you for these compliments on the economy, I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165815	Comrade Jovanovic, please, you are the third.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165816	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you've listed some of the facts that really happened in this term, but they would happen no matter who was in the minister's chair because they're happening by momentum. But explain to me, Mr. Prime Minister, what you said is simply incorrect that the minister is working to maintain a financially sustainable system. Here I have the slide, and I can hand it to you later, the slide wasn't made by a SDP man, it was by the Association of Employers in Health. So in 31.12.2015, the debt was 2.5 billion. On 31.12.2018, it was 3 billion and 4.3 billion on 30 September. The debt increased by 77 million in 2018. 100 million a month in 2019, although revenues are up to 133 million a month and rising. So the minister does not provide a financially sustainable system, but rather a decomposing system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165817	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165818	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, as far as the numbers are concerned, so if you listened carefully to my presentation in the context of everything we otherwise located in health care in 2017, we gave the funds another billion and 300 million kuna to realocate, that has never happened. That year, for the first time the debt was reduced in health, the first time it was reduced, it was reduced, look a little bit better and you'll see that detail. This year, this year we only paid off the big drugstores according to the data that the minister has a billion and 200 million kunas. Just this year. I've told you in my presentation of rationalization, rationalization, increase in resources as much as possible and service obligations, that's the goal we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165819	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165820	Dear Prime Minister, I will quote: "The state of health is not going to say it disastrously but it is really very bad and in the last three years it has not done anything at all, nothing at all." You like to separate words into styles, so let me point out. "I am sorry that during this latest reconstruction, the government was not affected and health care," said the president of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic is somewhere in the summer this year. Now you've been telling us for 10.5 minutes something completely different and she said nothing was done. My question is simple and it says who's talking nonsense you or the President of the Republic, a mild smile?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165821	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165822	Dear Representative Bauk, you know that Bracans and Hvar worship each other, so I love you very much, on a number of grounds, by political, basketball, sudicate, whatever basis you want and island basis. As for the composition of government members, it's the prime minister's job, it's the parliamentary majority's business, it's the ruling party's job. I respect the views of your or the President of the Republic but we decide on the members and members of the Government here and no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165823	A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165824	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, you claim to be behind the work and Minister Kujundzic that he is doing well despite announcing the purchase of an additional health insurance policy and argues that even social cases will have to pay for it. Do you happen to know, Mr. Prime Minister, that in a special account of supplementary health insurance with a special account at the CNB, not at any business bank, there are more than 500 million kunas of accumulated funds from these shelves that most of us here pay 70 kuna, 70 kuna a month. So what I'm curious about is the need to create an atmosphere that will collect something and then private insurance companies offer 30 kuna but for those under 30 years?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165825	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165826	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrelja. As far as HZZO is concerned, you know he's out of the treasury, so I guess you know that through that logic, you're talking about special accounts. But what's important here, and now I've checked with the minister, I have to admit, I don't know because we haven't had any discussion about how to increase supplementary insurance or to pay for social cases. The minister says he didn't say that, I didn't even register it in public space. Whether it was some kind of speculation, whether it was something random or taken out of context, I don't know, we never talked about it, it's not the government's position, it's not the government's policy or the minister himself. Here's to clarify because I can see that in the second intervention it stretches like it's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165827	My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165828	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, we are here for one simple reason, when you entered the reconstruction this summer then, before that, opposition deputies sought the recall of a series of ministers, including Mr. Kujundzic, there were some announcements that Mr. Kujundzic would be removed, but for some reason there was obviously not enough power to replace him. I'm interested in when the prime minister or, excuse me, your minister comes out for a pay phone and speaks in the way that Minister Kujundzic spoke for four minutes, does that arrogance and that indiscretion come out thoroughly, so something that is characteristic or that is a condition for you to be, that you also be a minister in your government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165829	Answer, please. There's no answer, so it's time for an esteemed colleague, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165830	... President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister, preparing for this debate, I have been investigating the systems of Austria, Germany and Switzerland and in fact their participation in the procurement of medicinal products of hospital treatment and hospital interventions. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] All the systems and Austrian and German and Swiss have participations in the supply of medicines and treatment in hospital interventions, even the best Swiss has up to 20% in the purchase of medicines, per capitals have in Switzerland about 6.200,00 CHF, Germans have about 4.300, Austrians 3,700, we, we have per capita 750 and in only a year and a half we have allocated billions and 400 million kunas for immune therapy and expensive medicines, which is actually 1% of the Croatian budget, so 1% of the Croatian budget is a billion and 400 million kuna, and we have no participations for such medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165831	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165832	Thank you very much, Agent Babić, it is true, I say from 2015-2019. 100% increase in funds for particularly expensive medicines, so we sent a message that we want to facilitate patients, facilitate families, even the possibility of treatment with this type of medicine. It's a strong message, reality is just the opposite of what we might sometimes understand from the discussions we have in public or media debates. As for the allocation of health care per capita, in the term of our government with earlier EUR 750,00 per capita today is set aside, the 802.00 euro is set aside, we are moving forward, but in real terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165833	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165834	Thank you, President HS. Dear Prime Minister, here we have heard here several times the hospital's debts, so tell the Croatian public how many Croatian hospitals' debts really have reached, how many of them are the debts of clinical hospitals, how many debts of hospitals of general or city hospitals? Why would I ask that? Well, the story is that clinical hospitals will resuscitate the state budget, and general and city hospitals that should be done by the founders of the county, the mayors said they don't have that money, how you'll do it and how and why if the minister hasn't worked out the limits to get up to hospitals, that they don't do it negatively because you're punishing those who do well, that they can't invoice what they've done, but they're doing business with the loss, and tomorrow it's going to be health homes, because now up to 25% of the teams won't even home health will be able to do a positive job, who's going to pay specialization to the homes of health, there won't be any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165835	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165836	Thank you very much, MP Vlaovic, according to the data I have from the health minister the amount of KBC's liabilities of about 2.2 billion, other hospitals somewhere around 700 million kuna, slightly less than 3 billion kunas all combined. As for the limit, they were established earlier in the time of some other governments, we try to raise them because we are aware that the functionality of hospitals is questionable with these frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165837	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165838	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the primary health care system in Sisak-Moslavina County, so 70% of the county health institutions are working with losses, and in some we have as many as 42% of non-healthy workers, you can actually conclude what it is, it is about the arrest of party personnel, Mayor Žinić and HDZ, it is similar to the situation in my county, where I come from, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska where you destroyed the health care system, this man who sat next to you promised Metkovic two and a few years ago a day hospital, and he did not tell the citizens Metkovic that there are no doctors, that at any time 30 doctors are missing in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, stop foolinging this people, tell them the truth and he will appreciate you more.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165839	Answer, please. No answer, Comrade Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165840	Thank you, President HS. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to introduce you to one of the key problems in Croatian health care, which has been warned by the distinguished doctor, Željka Perić from Zdenac, Mrs. Željka Perić is 2014. declared the best doctor in the Republic of Croatia by the choice of Croatian patients' associations. I personally know her and appreciate her work and not only me but many residents of Virovitica-Podravna County and beyond, I think if there was a prize on the model of the golden kuna, she should get a golden heart. What's she warning you about? Things can't be solved administratively from the top down, nobody asks people on the ground what's going on, they make her leave Zdenac to go 60 km on special duty to Virovitica, it's determined by HZO or County, whoever set her up didn't set it right, and you need to warn the minister of these things, let things in health be solved so that it comes to rural space, let the real problems of the accessibility of doctors to citizens And then a better, better solution will be made. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165841	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165842	Thank you very much for the suggestion, I am sure that Dr. Peric, mentioned in his experience, could help the council and the minister and the health ministry at all, that what they see in practice could work better to improve. As for the hospital in Virovitica, I was there twice, as far as I know we about don't know less than a month ago it seems to me a little more than a month ago was the Day of Virovitica-Podravna County visited the hospital, there was a whole new annex built up, invested in both magnetic and CT, and one and another element came to the Virovitica Hospital. As for these suggestions, we are open to all useful suggestions for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165843	Comrade Voter, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165844	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, in your presentation when you listed the achievements of the Ministry of Health, the Minister and the Government, you listed a project to establish an emergency helicopter medical service. And all of this would be fine if, in the Health Development Strategy by 2020 and in the National Road Safety Programme, we were not aimed at establishing an emergency helicopter medical service by 2020. So today three months before 2020, we're still just talking about establishing an emergency helicopter medical service, and my question to you is not the Shakespearean words, words, words only words, words, words but when are you going to go from word to action because the end of 2019 is already supposed to be established?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165845	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165846	Thank you very much. As far as the funds are concerned, I will repeat the 35m euros allocated to the project, is the holder of the Ministry of Defence, and until these helicopters we are talking about here I must commend the representatives of the Croatian Air Force who regularly assist by hiring helicopters, commend the Croatian police who are also helping, praise the final line to the government which rarely sends a second plane at noon and midnight if it is necessary to save a life. Therefore, we do what we can with existing abilities. When this tender is carried out, when purchased, the entire helicopter service will be added to raise the level of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165847	Here you go, pal Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165848	Thank you. In the Assembly, the minister, and now you, too, have said that we have secured 35m euros for emergency helicopter medical services. The last meeting was formed in April 2019. Did the group give the government a proposal on how to establish an emergency helicopter medical service? And I'm curious about how we got the eu money before the government decided to enter this project? If she's made up my mind, I'm curious about when because we don't have any knowledge of it. And you know that MORH cannot perform this service, that according to EU regulations, Slovenians are already being warned about it. And since that's 35 million I'm interested in where those helicopters fly? You know very well that Croatian Army cargo helicopters are not for this purpose, that the emergency comes to the scene first and then calls the helicopter and that's far from that golden hour when there's a huge damage and there's more expensive treatment, and we could save a lot here for treatment in order to... health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165849	Thank you. Answer, please. All right, then we're going to the last line for Prime Minister, colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165850	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I must confess that you are as successful as Minister Kujundzic in your work. And I'd like you to explain one paradox to me, so in the last three years 150 thousand people have moved out in Croatia, so we have fewer people in the Republic of Croatia, now the minister said we have more doctors and sisters. So watch out, follow me well, less people, more doctors and nurses, and the waiting lists are longer. How is that possible? How can a successful man with fewer jobs and more human capacities make longer waiting lists? It's a very, very simple question to say. Do you really think the minister is successful? ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What did you say, sir?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165851	Do not throw your colleague Bačić away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165852	I didn't hear it, but it must have been smart, so I wanted him to tell me. A very simple question if you can Give me ten seconds. The man took me. [[President: You're out of time.]] So explain to me this very simple question, less people, more doctors, longer waiting lists. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Maras, you are out of time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165853	Comrade Maras, everyone's holding on for a minute, so please hold on. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165854	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras, unlike earlier situations in the post of Minister Kujundzic, priority waiting lists have been established. All those who really need an urgent, urgent intervention are dealt with within seven days. It's big and important news, the patients know it, the doctors know it, and thanks to your question, they know the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165855	Now we're going to the minister's replicas. First up, buddy Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165856	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. I see that you like to speak the language of numbers because they are truly exact, so I will tell you that you yourself have told health care professionals in your term in the term of office of this government that the salary is 18.5%. At the annual level, that means when you became Minister of Health Professionals, you received 12 salaries and are now receiving them 12, but in absolute terms they are now receiving 14 of those salaries and more than 14 of those who received them before you arrived. So, by the work of this government, your work of healthcare professionals in Croatia receive 14.5 of the same salaries in this year at 10 months. If this is important to healthcare professionals, and certainly pays is, it best says how much you personally care for the work of your employees... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165857	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165858	Thank you very much. I don't know how to count so well, and there's about those numbers where it's an increase in wages, but those people deserve them. So let's move on with the ladies and gentlemen's numbers. So, in 2015, when it comes to magnetic resonance, it was 129 thousand in Croatia, and 2018. 147 thousand, CT 184, 2018. 224, mammography 215, now 247, knee surgery 2500, now 2900. Now let's go to these important things a little neurologists, neuroradiologists, neurointervention radiology. So it was when 2015, 2016, it was 407 and now it's 767. And also the coronaryography, especially, the coronaryography at the one-day hospital, you come to the hospital, they do your coronaryography, you get stent, you go home. 4x has increased the number, so these are the numbers, these are the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165859	Thank you. Comrade Luc-Polanc, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165860	Almost every minister in his ministry, i.e. at the health ministry, was known for any newspaper or reform he brought. So some minister just changed the ministry's name and some, there were ministers who introduced hospital rehabilitations or singled out HZZO from the budget system to reduce debt. I'm interested in what's new, which is what's concrete, one reform that you've introduced as a newspaper into a system that's going to be your author's work tomorrow and what's going to remain as the seal of your mandate. Because what you're telling us, these are tiny steps within the system that you're trying to plug up some small holes and you know it's called a lot of wanted in the people, a lot started. You don't have any results so far. So please state means one concrete measure or something that will mark your mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165861	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165862	Now, I'm going to take personalized medicine, and I'm going to adapt to you because I see that you're not in medicine, so that's what we call in medicine when a man less knows then he needs to be adapted, and it's hard to explain to you how he works in medicine, but I'm going to try to draw you. So Croatia was lagging behind in robotic surgery, we were the end of the world and 10 years ago the whole world is developing. So this ministry, this government is forming a national robot centre on Rebr where Croatian patients are now being worked, where doctors from other hospitals are now being taught and Croatia will have robotic surgery for the next year two in the form of a bar Slovenia which began 10 years ago. And what we did, if you want to do later in oncology, gastro, you might be interested in gastroenterology, come and I'll, hematology, whatever you want, I'll draw for you, I'll draw for you everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165863	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165864	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Minister, I'm going to say "honored" because your discourse is talking about you enough. I listened to you on the Croatian radio this morning and you spoke very much about politicians, chats, no use to the people sitting in this House, who should report to the Croatian public. You know what, if I were bad, I'd say you're describing the ruling majority, but I'm not bad, so I'm not gonna say it because there are really great experts among them that I greatly appreciate. But I'll tell you something else, you like numbers, I'll talk to you from experience, go to Ossetian cardiology, get into a sanitary node used by patients. Two fingers of urine on the floor. And then let's talk about the standards I want to achieve, about the human dignity of the people who are forced to use that sanitary node and why that is. Is it because of the weariness of the installation, is it that the cleanup staff doesn't have the equipment to clean with and we're talking about 21st century health care?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165865	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165866	Thank you so much for taking me to Osijek. I do not withdraw it, but look at the lives of some people here, and you will see who they were, what they were, what they were doing. And those who are in medicine, have paper but have never done anything, they never helped any patient, so that's the Croatian reality, I'm not a politician, I'm Dr. Gastroenterologist who can now go anywhere in the world to work in every hospital and you'll talk to me like this. So let's go, Osijek. Osijek is invested in daily hospitals 50 million, the emergency reception is 30 million, magnet and CT and coronaryography and angiography and linear accelerant have been purchased, and most importantly, funds from eu funds are being provided, projects are being done to build a new University Hospital in Osijek. So it's a vision but it's a performance and not a talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165867	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165868	Minister Kujundzic, you're a difficult political coward, unlike me, and don't hide behind me. Because if you could, if you wanted, you could change the representativeness of the Representative Act. And it's just saying that you're an incompetent minister because if that's wrong, if that's wrong, then you should have changed it nicely in these four years. But you can see your incompetence and incompetence trying to hide behind me. E is a political coward, because you were supposed to sit down with the unions and deal with the unions. And you know for a fact that unions say 20% can't be 10%. And that's what political you're a coward and don't attack us here and defend yourself in a way that you attack us personally. A political coward is and you will stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165869	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165870	Dear fellow Mrsic, it is true that I am a political coward. I wasn't at the high school party, I wasn't the head of the game in college, I wasn't a party man on Rebra, in that sense I'm a coward. And as for medicine, you know where you and I are, all of Croatia knows it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165871	Comrade Sagittarius, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165872	I've already changed several times, listening to the minister's words but to be clear, not to speak in symbols. So, after I didn't want to become a member of the HDZ because it was the only condition in the Gospić war to get a specialization, I spent five years in the war and therefore I was behind on an esteemed minister who could really perfect himself and achieve all my scientific and all the other medical achievements. And in the end, after all the years and I had the conditions even for a professor to become a doctor this year, that's what the minister is talking about. Afterwards, the HDZ Council for Health in Rijeka met and tried to challenge it in any way. It doesn't matter to me in the end. So that's what the minister is talking about. What I would just like to say once again, so this minister had the opportunity, colleague Mrsic, and I was against you and Varge, he had the opportunity to change Yeah, well, I'll be back later. [[The incursion of the president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165873	Thank you, I'm sorry, but hold on to that minute, please. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165874	I hope her colleague comes back later, so when she has a mature thought, then I'll answer her.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165875	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165876	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, in your presentation, therefore, you spoke about what the SDP government did four years ago. I think those who look at us, which is Croatian patients, doctors and nurses are interested in what is present and future, and I was at a protest with nurses, so I'm not a doctor, I'm not an expert in medicine, but they told me concrete data, which is that here's one nurse said that at the age of 20, the intern has 6,000 kunas paid with all possible duty, that they have to clean these hospital beds after surgery because it no longer belongs to the maids, that they can hardly go to sick leave because there are no one to change them. So do you think their problems are real or imaginary?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165877	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165878	Thank you very much for that inquiry, thank you very much. Indeed nurses and doctors do what they do and how they do it is one humanity, that's ethics, that's giving it to a man for health, and then he pays for it. And of course they deserve more and I wish we could give them more. This government came out and gave them 18% not to cut their wages as did those with whom you have now signed this petition, but to increase the salary of both sisters and Croatian doctors are wanted everywhere in the world because they know. But this problem that you've been talking about, the care of the patient, and we've solved it now, and somewhere these days it's going to be a rule where we're going to be able to help our sisters in the way that's been solved in the world, where we're introducing the status of a nurse, where people are going to be educated in six months, then they're going to clean the bed and feed the patient and they're going to be made easier. Thank you very much for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165879	Comrade Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165880	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, listening to answers or replicas can bring it down to three things. First one of his colleagues was helplessly offended, and then he insulted you. We have learned that no one is thanking God seriously sick, but that the problem is in the toilets and that a colleague who is not in HDZ has progressed during HDZ. A joke aside, it did not repeat what was during the Social Democratic Party, which was in some sense here and spoken by the Prime Minister and you. I just want to remind you one more time, very short. Daily hospitals, surgery for a colleague who can't find the data, find the Gaf.hr Ministry of Health is called everything there writes to you. What was done during this minister and during this government is, in every city and in every county, it was invested, whether in medical personnel, or in improving working conditions. or to improve patients. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165881	Thank you. Would you like some? No, I don't. Then we'll go to a colleague named Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165882	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers don't treat all the complexes here in the assembly the same way. SDPs and MOSTs do it in a very special way and I'll say why. You are 11 Minister of Health in the Republic of Croatia in all 14 governments. This is proof that the post still has one of its own sustainability and you are the first minister against which the same party is initiated in a year's time by the second impeachment. In what way? So Grmoya knocked on barely two out of four papers something to discuss, went out, and then there's an insult salva, tried to discredit you as a person without a single argument. What they wrote here is a descriptive state of some kind that can be heard in every cafe today or in any other bar because simply This way talking to you is below any level of fellow medics who come from your profession. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165883	Comrade Boric, thank you. You want an answer? Nothing. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165884	Dear Ministers of Public Affairs should know that you must care for 63 hospitals in Croatia, you complain that you did not make functional hospital integration, and it was done for 12. Some of these hospitals do not meet the limits, so neither do what they have guaranteed by the monthly limit, and all those persons and all these systems must function. So we should talk about how complex 63 hospitals are in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165885	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165886	Thank you very much. Indeed, Croatian hospitals came into existence at another time about 150 years ago, and now we really have them in modern technology of transport and treatment. And you don't need to invent hot water, you have to do what other countries did, and we're headed that way. We are not afraid, we are not afraid, we have some problems, but we have reached consensus with both the mayors and the locals, we are going into functional integration because it is inappropriate to have two urology, orthopedics, neurology, etc., in this way we save, save money, but we are mostly better equipped with human resources, we have greater quality and better outcomes of treatment. And we'll keep doing it, so regardless of what we'll sometimes have a little resistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165887	And the last replica of my colleague Cellic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165888	The respected ministers know that during the SDP, the forced administration, although 6.5 billion kuna was invested for 2 years, was more than 7 billion kuna, so these forced administrations, which were named after the party dictatorship, created even greater debts. I am interested in one question, so the worst, most convincingly the worst government of Zoran Milanovic, has acquired more than 25 ECMO devices that were unnecessary to Croatian health and thus burdened Croatian healthcare with millions of unnecessary kunas for non-necessary devices, did you order an ECMO device in this term?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165889	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165890	We are, of course, wherever necessary, where there is a need for patients, and the need was not to share them where they shouldn't, but where they know and where they should and when they need to sit people from our clinic for infectious diseases and go to our Istria and save the patient's life. So, we've been getting them, but a few, we've never gone in such mass procurement with a hand and a hat, that's not done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165891	Thank you, I open the debate now and the first club of representatives is the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Youths, dear colleague Marin Škibola with this I would like to say that a representative of the motion can report for 5 minutes during the debate and also a representative of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165892	Thank you, Honorable President HS. Dear Ministers Kujundzic, it is difficult to elaborate all the problems that the health system has in 15 minutes, so I will touch only certain elements, certain details, but what I must say at the beginning is that the health system in the Republic of Croatia is not as good as you represent it to the Croatian public today in your debate. The European Consumer Health Index measures the quality and availability of healthcare through an analysis of 45 indicators. 2017 our health system was 26th among 35 European countries. The largest decline is evident in the availability of health services and in the outcome of treatment, waiting lists for examinations of hospital specialists, for operational procedures and for CT searches have been increased. What you have to admit to the public, Mr. Kujundzic, is that we have too much cancer and cardiovascular disease mortality. In Croatia, according to HZZ, more than 14,000 people die annually from cancer, more than 22 new cancer patients are discovered annually, which means that each day, about 60 people are diagnosed. According to the latest data, the Republic of Croatia is 10th in the world by cancer mortality and these are frightening data. North Korea is Mr. Kujundzic in eighth place, so we're only a little better than North Korea. Only Hungary is weaker in the EU than in the EU, I believe you are familiar with these statistics. The percentage of cancer mortality is e.g. in the Republic of Croatia twice as big as in Denmark, it's devastating, we need to learn from the experience of countries that have for a double better system in those segments. We need a unique radio therapy network, radio therapy devices are very old and under-functional, and the cost of service is too high, we really need to get new machines and it shouldn't be saved, these are things that can't be said there's no money, they're priority. The problem of this government's policy is that it has not set priorities and we are constantly spinning around, which is worth an increase in GDP by 2% when Croatian citizens can't feel it more effectively in their lives, so today it's just an empty story that actually few people believe. Every day more and more people leave this country, mostly medical personnel, other countries value their medical staff, while you don't care. We've recently had a protest of nurses, and I'm asking you Ministers would you be motivated to do jobs that a nurse does for a salary of 5.00 kn? If you were a medical technician today, not a minister, you'd be in Mark's square looking for your rights. In many health institutions, especially homes for elderly and powerless persons, nurses work for minimum wages, and the number of people they care about is beyond all norms. One nurse often takes care of ten people. I ask you if it's normal at all, you give them crumbs and you think they'll settle for those crumbs. So many nurses and technicians have come to Mark's square, even without unions, and you don't want to talk to them at all. How long have you been like that? While state hospitals are convulsing in debt, private institutions are growing incomes, and the logical question is to whom does the collapse of the health system and long waiting lists correspond? The press might be able to check out what related interest structures this is, and maybe you know Mr. Minister, so tell us what this is about? We all know that there is a need for reform of the health system and that should be a priority. We also know that... A reform of local self-government where huge rationalisation could be carried out, however, it will never happen as HDZ and SDP change in power. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The whole state has become a hostage to their particular interests and as long as people vote for HDZ and SDP in the elections and key reforms will not happen and this should be clear to the citizens. Mr. Kujundzic, you no longer even hide that it is in your interest to liberalise your health, but people need to know that this is a step towards privatisation and what are the consequences of the privatisation of health. If Romania and the Czech Republic can raise their salaries by 40%, then the Republic can. Declare the interest of disabled healthcare professionals, it is not the point of importing medical personnel from BiH or Albania, and that our people are going to work in Germany and Austria. For which reason we then educate all these people to work outside, and you boast that you are implementing a policy of national interest, however, these data show that it has nothing to do with the policy of national interest, it is a policy of moving our people out of this space and I would like to finally say that the club of independent youth lists does not support such a health policy regardless of whether you are in charge or someone else so that we will support the opposition proposal for impeachment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165893	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative of Ines Strenja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165894	It is very difficult in short replicas to answer some of the questions so I will just repeat what I wanted to say and that is why Minister Miranda Mrsic, has not achieved a quality dialogue with doctors but this minister who speaks so much about it has also missed it because, despite the announcements, he has not changed the Law on Representativeness for several years. Two years ago, now in the 11th month, it's been 2 years, and I've submitted amendments to the Law on Representativeship to which doctors as system-holders would be representative, each of their unions, means the union of those who are system-holders. It could have changed for two years, they could have taken that law, attributed it and put it as their own. If it had been desired, it could have been done to have doctors sitting at the table and negotiating the conditions of their work. This is not the way the overtime is renegotiated and all these over-hour lawsuits because they are not properly accounted for, all these lawsuits are now slow to collect but new ones can also go because this article of the collective contract is still not negotiated. And I would now like to say something about primary health care as far as I can, which is that the primary health care base itself is a health care base of every system and has been upside down for many years because the doctor's relationship in specialist protection, means special consular protection and those in primary health care is in Croatia 3:1 which is very unfavourable. So the real holders and holders of primary health care in the Republic of Croatia are 8 thousand highly educated healthcare professionals, Dr. medicine, Dr. dental medicine, Ph.D., MA, Biochemistry Master, Patronising Sisters, and at least so many middle professional staff who are members of teams, which makes up about a quarter of all employees in the health system and more if we don't count, if we count and not healthcare professionals. So she is, primary health care is generally recognised as high quality, secure, comprehensive, integrated, accessible and economical for everyone and everywhere, provided with compassion, respect and dignity by health care professionals who are well educated, skilled, motivated and dedicated in their work. So says the declaration... at the World Conference on Primary Health in 2018. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, primary health care has been subjected to numerous reforms, most often failed, but thus rarely respected the proposals of the profession itself. Therefore, this pyramid, which I spoke about at the outset in which strong primary health care should be the basis instead of targeted resolution of more than 70% of health problems, is carried out by a large part of the HZZO administration in 2018. 96.5% and 6 thousand decimal 16 of their HZZO controls made it precisely at primary healthcare level, so less than 4% or 210 controls in total. It was implemented at other levels of health care. So the main thing was to go at them and they were most controlled and they carry the health system at that primary level. Knowing that most of the controls are family medical domain and since these offices don't even have 2500, each office is controlled by at least 2x. However, each control gives recommendations as well as financial redundancies to doctors on administrative requirements and thus doctors in primary health care can less and less worry about the profession and more about rules and financial constraints that patients have never had the courage to present as a basket of services before. This makes primary health care less attractive to doctors who are too little anyway. In 2018, the specialisation offer increased through the operational programme of the European Social Fund cannot compensate for a huge deficit that is increasing from the present few hundred. For example, only family medicine specialization per programme lasts for 4 years, but in practice young women are often the most women in that part and seven years because of interruptions, etc. So also family medicine specialists are highly appreciated abroad and they can also go away more easily. [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165895	We have two replicas, the first respected vice president of this House, Hydedash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165896	Thank you... The Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand you, my colleagues. You're working so hard with so many arguments and the minister before I think ten minutes ago told you one sentence, so there's everything clear, if you've listened well and carefully. He said he didn't know the numbers. Watch out for the person who manages the finances, we can talk about 26 billion kuna, HZZO, says here in front of everyone that he doesn't know the numbers. And then you're surprised, the hospital restrictions, so OK, the salaries went up, the costs went up, we've got some inflation, it's up 20%, and the hospital's limits are 4%. There's nothing to be surprised about anymore. So the solution is very simple, man doesn't know with numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165897	The answer of the esteemed councilwoman "Shooting."
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165898	Well, that's what I'm actually saying, so it's such a dramatic situation as primary health care. And instead of all together, we all reach one political consensus together and try to solve this problem this health administration closes its eyes. We currently have 89 teams of family medicine without carriers. You know what that means? These are doctors who are enrolled in this office but do not have their doctor 15% gynaecological, so 15% of the office has no gynecologist where 6 thousand women who belong to this office do not have their gynecologist, and we are talking about some kind of prevention of malignant diseases. So the situation is very serious and we don't need to close our eyes but we have to open the numbers to say, the problem is trying to solve it, but together we need to decide quite differently what solutions these should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165899	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165900	Dear colleagues of the Sagittarius. For the functioning of primary health care, it is extremely important how much the population of the Republic of Croatia pays for the DHA. They had previously denied it, but the minister said when resolving the debt to majors, which reiterated the need to reduce costs within the health system, but also to increase revenues through increased prices of cigarettes and alcohol, either through an increase in the price of Joe. No need to invent hot water, there are forms in the world that have been proven as I have talked countless times about cigarettes and alcohol. There are thus other models including supplementary insurance and inclusion in the payment of a number of those who do not pay today and are being handled as social cases. Now who's smart here? Is he lying to a goat or a horn? This was reported on N1's reputed television.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165901	The answer of the esteemed councilwoman "Shooting."
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165902	So, even you who really care and represent one of the most vulnerable populations, and these are our pensioners who are really the most exposed to poverty and living on the edge of poverty, thinking that something in the system needs to be made up of. Of course, you too are on the trail of what the minister said should think about excise duties and ways to penalize those who systematically spend on alcohol and smoking and thus destroy their health and there are potential costs for the system. But there is a will to do so, sit down and discuss how our system needs to be financially relocated to pay for those who need and to be freed from those who don't need it, but it takes a little more will. We haven't seen that move in three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165903	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Romana Jerkovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165904	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are today discussing the competences of the current health minister and whether he should continue to be a health minister or not in view of these competences. It's our right, not only is it our right, it's our obligation. And that is why you should not, in my opinion, be allowed to provoke yourself like this and allow yourself to be taken over by personalized medicine because it is not good for anyone, nor for the level of debate, nor for the health of both yours and ours. We are not discussing the human qualities of Minister Kujundzic today, we are not discussing his professional competences whether he is a good gastroenterologist or not. Today, we are discussing how successful and whether he is or not successful in the conduct of an extremely important function. Health is one of the most important social categories, without individual health there is no healthy society or strong society. And therefore, that is why health must be the focus of every responsible government and the focus of every responsible minister. It seems to us that in the case of this government it is questionable, it is our right. We're arguing today why we think there. The minister defends himself, it's his right. And the prime minister defended him and that's his right. But there is no greater right than the right to health and quality life and quality health care. Today, we are discussing whether this is an extremely important right to question. How do you determine if it is so, how to be objective, how to avoid Lart pour lart? Very simple, arguments and figures are no different. So on behalf of the SDP club, I'm going to ask you ministers a few very important questions. I'll ask you if it's true that we miss medical personnel, is it true that doctors and nurses leave Croatia and do we know the numbers? That's right, and we know the numbers. Is it true he's been waiting for some tests for over two years? Yeah, it's true. Is it true that some operating procedures have been waiting over two years? Yeah, it's true. Is it true that, after the outcome of treatment for cancer and heart patients, we have experienced a fall? Yeah, it's true. Is it true that the rate of mortality from cardiovascular disease is almost double the EU average? Yeah, it's true. Is it true that we're dying twice as many heart disease as long? Yeah, it's true. Is it true that the mortality rate of lung cancer, breast, colon is among the highest in Europe? Yes, it's true, Minister. Is it true that the Republic of Croatia is an expected lifetime for more than three years below the EU average? We live three years shorter, that's right, Minister. You can defend yourself, Minister, it's your right, but my question on behalf of the SDP club is: Tell us what has been done to stop the health personnel drain from Croatia? What did you do to improve their working conditions? What did you do to reduce the waiting lists? What have you done to improve treatment outcomes? What have you done to improve the availability of healthcare? It is your task as Minister and there is no doubt there and you cannot convince us of another, to use all the instruments you have to improve the health care system to make it easier for people. It's your responsibility and it's your responsibility. That's what we're talking about today. It's hard to figure out what you've been doing in three years, it's hard, it's hard for us, but it's easy for us, it's kind of easy for us to figure out what's important. I'm going to give you a very, very important example to me, and this is an example that shows the ministers how you work, it's kind of your, what habitat, modus operandi. In Croatia we had three screenings, three breakthroughs, three preventive programs. One was breast cancer, one was colon cancer, and one was uterine cancer. E Minister, you now have one wonderful opportunity to say why you stopped this third one, you stopped it, you abolished it in 2016. I am now asking you on behalf of the SDP Club why, which is why, when the Ministers gave extraordinary results from November 2012 to November 2015, the incidence of this serious disease decreased by 18.2%, a phenomenal result and you cancel the program. Ministers, those are numbers. They don't belong to you. And when you were asked once by ministers why the program pierced uterus cancer, you said ha was a bad response. So you see the ministers talking about it, that's what we're talking about. Instead of wondering why the response was bad, instead of trying to increase it, to sensitize the public, to convince women that it was extremely important, that it was one of the most preventable diseases that exist today and that no woman in the 21st century, in Croatia and Europe should die of this disease, you say the response was bad and put it, so I think it's also as if you put your hands in your pockets or as if you never took them out, anyway. You didn't like the program because it was started by the SDP, so I can understand it as well human, but if you've already abolished it then you should have given something new and not simply in any European country, it's not that any national programme has been abolished. It is in Croatia, unfortunately. E ministers, they're your numbers, they're your arguments, and they're your facts. The general public, both professional and general, rightly expects you to recognize problems as a minister, to offer solutions but we, you say the impression is that and we tell you it's not an impression because we present figures and arguments and facts. You don't offer solutions, we don't see them. You buy time and transfer responsibility to someone else. And it's always someone else's fault. That health care is a difficult resistor, it's burdened with problems but you've taken responsibility, your role can't be passive, you can't wait for things to be solved on their own because you won't get rid of it, you have to be a leader in the vault. Your ministry with you must offer solutions and that's why you're a minister, you're not a minister to pass your time faster. You have incredible powerful instruments in your hands but they melt like, you don't use them and we rightly wonder if it's why you don't or don't know. Although actually if we're going to be honest, the result is equally fatal in both cases. In last year's debate, which made the health situation worse, we told you and I will repeat that in our opinion you decided on a completely wrong tactics, you said, you said something that made all the public think you weren't actually going to do anything because if a man doesn't do anything, then he knows that no one can criticize him for anything else, that he's not guilty of anything. And that approach is not only wrong, it's absurd, it's destructive, it's with far more far-reaching consequences. You are actually becoming directly responsible for the accumulated problems in this too important portfolio, which is why not only does the system stagnate but it actually lags behind or backward. And who will fix that damage and at what cost will the minister and what will happen to human resources by then, who will be the pillars of Croatian health care? You, for example. You're talking about four new university hospitals and the general and professional public, I'm going to tell you right now, in a wonder he looks at you and doesn't actually believe what he hears. So if they started building tomorrow and they didn't, in eight years, they probably wouldn't have been built and put into operation. And what about until then? You're buying time too. You're talking about new hospitals although you know very well that it's not realistic in the near future to do so, but no one can make you finally talk about how you intend to improve the outcomes of treatment or why you're doing nothing about helicopter medical services, emergency helicopters. We heard earlier, the prime minister said, in the MORH budget of 35m euros, kuna, it doesn't matter, you heard from colleagues, colleagues from HSS, so that's unacceptable. The sea cannot take over, the sea must not do it, the EU does not allow it. But be careful you misinformed the Prime Minister, not the Prime Minister knowingly told us the truth, you misinformed him. And when you misinformed him, then what are you doing to us and the general public? Something you need to admit to ministers though, yes, there is something in which you are amazingly successful, which is buying time, transferring responsibility to others. You survived the government's reconstruction, but if this government can survive with you, that's a big question and we'll see Friday. Yes, when you run out of inspiration and alibi, then you transfer the ball to someone else's yard, mostly in the yard of the Minister of Finance. And then you say so I would, I would, but he doesn't, he doesn't have any money. It's his fault, you got him. But Minister, let's go back to numbers, so has anyone in Croatian health history had more money than you? Minister, what do you say? It's not. No one. No one had more than you. Moreover, those who work in the system and who understand the health care system know very well that the financial problems in this vault are only the tip of the ice santa. And the truth is, we went bankrupt. That's true, and not that the water didn't get to our throats, we went down. But you can't see it yet, as clearly as you'll see for a while. It's hard to estimate when, precisely because of the hardworking people who work in the system, who patch up the holes, who work, they find it to be true. We're burdening you with a lot of things, I said a year ago, the same debate was but it all comes down to a common denominator that reads inaction. We consider that a key sin. At three years, there's been a lot of opportunities for you to do something. Instead of using every opportunity you weren't hitting on the former government, you could change everything you wanted, all the laws you needed to make the system better. You put in the procedure one of the basic resistors that essentially changed nothing. Half a year you've been pouring out of the hollow, putting the law on e-consumption without social dialogue, getting 5.5 comments as if the layman was writing the law, driving the public crazy by going privatization, not going, going, not going, going, not going, and then you haven't been beating the hospital system that's been squirming in problems and debts like you're not doing now. You keep saying that you inherited your debts and that we've been carrying out failed resolutions. Here's a colleague who's told you before, I can only repeat that we've paid back not only the debts left by the previous governments, but because of the legal reduction in payment time from 180 to 60 we practically had 6 billion commitments overnight, and that's at the time of recession. Let me remind you, at the time of the recession and we managed to solve it and we showed that it could be done if it wanted to. And you've shown how everything can go back to the way it was when it didn't. That's what I need to know. Yes, there's a lot to say and time is actually too little, you can think Ministers that we are attacking you for no reason but facts and figures are on our side, not on your side, the numbers say we also heard from fellow Scybols that we fell on all possible scales and that this is very much maintained on the quality of healthcare in Croatia, patients feel it, doctors feel it. Nurses and technicians feel that, too. Instead of fundamental and strategic changes for 3 years, you've been sending us into the parliamentary procedure very unarranged and confusing laws that are contradictory and discriminatory. You've decided on some sort of partial solution that creates new chaos and financial dubiousness, you have no plan and you have no visions. You'll take it personally, so you actually need it. If you have any sense of responsibility but there is no strategic or long-term thinking or consideration of the interests of the health system as a whole and that is devastating for this system. And it's hard to take away the impression that you don't actually listen to the profession or your own colleagues and you're even less interested in what the social partners think. Simply Minister, unfortunately you do not manage the processes, they manage you, you think I think the only one in Croatia that is good and in great, great error. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165905	Thank you very much, time's up. Minister Kujundzic will now address on behalf of the government, please take five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165906	I thank you all and continue nicely now with arguments to discuss what is happening. So as to the assessment of the Croatian health system, you know who Lancet is and what Lancet is, Lancet as the oldest and most qualitative journal in medicine, the Croatian health system ranks among the 15 best in the world with all the weaknesses that we know exist. As for the occurrence of cancer, we do have a serious problem, and that's why this government did as the prime minister said, a national programme... which we will bring by the end of the year and we already have better outcomes of breast cancer treatment in the last 3 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will also begin in the weeks ahead of us with a screening program of lung cancer, so we started to do that, we didn't close our eyes. For a moment, I will look back at the cancer of the church, the truth of the historical cause, so it's not SDP's, it was HDZ's Professor. Ćolušić won a prize for it in Brussels even in 2010 but it doesn't matter, it's important that something good is important and now gynecologists have questions of great benefit and therefore it is now being analysed. As far as investment in this problem is concerned, I must say the following. This government made the next one. On the issue of radiotherapy, three linear accelerators were obtained, one Osijek, one Rebro, one for the children's hospital, and a gamma code was obtained, so we know what oncology is, we know the effect of radiotherapy, and in particular this government has raised and significantly increased the separations for expensive medicines that go significantly to patients with malignancies. As for the mortality of cardiovascular diseases, we Croats unfortunately have a great phenomenon and our network, I think in a few days, let me be Professor. Reiner corrects, there is the European Cardiological Society, right on the model Croatia will develop its network because Croatia is on the network of interventions within one hour and getting stent within one hour, one of the best organised countries and on the trail of cardiovascular ones, we are just in the program of experimental which is now working and will quickly live, for other vascular diseases or intervention radiology, I am talking about the aneurism of abdominal and toral aneurism, and we have solved that. I've shown the number of intervention neuroradiology, you've seen how much we've increased and you've seen that those centres that haven't worked, they're now starting to work, we're now educating your Rijeka, Split is already, Professor. As a result, we are also educating Osijek, so we are creating a network as we created an ERCP network a few days ago, also where the patient will not be in Oguline, Virovitica or Dubrovnik, because someone on the standby stands in Split in the endoscopy, will make... They'll put a stent on him and save him from necrotizing pancreatitis or full-time or full-time billiard, billiard sepsis. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, at no point did we close our eyes, and Mr. Hreši, he really read exactly what I said, so I said about what you read, there are models in the world that are being used, which are proven, and we in the Republic need to consider them, not prejudged by any model or cigarette, not even further, so I didn't invent them, these are proven models that need to be analysed, and in terms of social categories, this government never meant to reduce solidarity, that's the virtue and quality of this health system, we're going to care, and you know that there are fake pensioners, fake people, fake sick, fake sick people who drive Porsche, so fake sick, that's something that we all need together regardless of the party, regardless of the parties, we have to deal with. Here I see that we point out the last, last seconds and with regard to human resources, the EU average and the number of doctors is 350 per 100,000, we now have 340, so let's not panic the nation, doctors need us, as well as engineers, we need to keep them all, but the reality is that at this point we don't have any more serious threats at global national level, but in certain hospitals, primarily because of the failure of specialization we have certain crises that we are overcoming right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165907	Let's go to the replicas, he's the first colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165908	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'm going to replicate more or less to you than I've replicated to the Prime Minister who, for his own known reasons, has not responded. You have also once again mentioned additional health insurance, on several occasions you have spoken about the collection of supplementary health insurance, you have spoken, I have listened, you have also talked about the health insurance supplements that will have to pay and social security cases, but you cannot answer the question I have been asking you for a year, which is that there are private insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia who, despite a clear legal provision, do not accept the additional insurance of the old person and the sick person, for a year now I have been asking you for intervention, you do not respond to that. It's because you don't know what the law says, do you because you don't know how to apply the law or because of your personal relationship with private insurance companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165909	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165910	Look, my personal relationship that you insinuate, my wife is a pediatrician and director of Croatia's polyclinic, so she works exclusively in treating patients, she has no connection to insurance, don't use such things on a personal level, and also what you've been telling me, whispered to her lady, and I'll tell the Croatian public if you want, so I'm the one who looks into your eyes and tells you everything, this is about my wife, I answered your question, you asked your question, you got the answer, so we checked this out where you put the doubt that there is discrimination that some insurance houses and you got a written answer, so read to the Croats what we've answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165911	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165912	Mr. Ministers, in one response, I think it was Mr. Hajdukovic that you told him you weren't a politician, you were a candidate for HDZ president, candidate for president of state, president of the political party Croatian Dawn, and now you're a minister and you claim you're not a politician. Well done. So, when the president of the Republic of Croatia told you that you were doing nothing or that you did nothing, you responded to the quote, always before determining and starting therapy, I make an exact diagnosis and differentiated consideration of other diseases, and that's how I'm going to do it in this case. So I have a question for you, have you diagnosed the presidents of the Republic of Croatia and will you vote for it since she told you not to do anything? ... for a round of applause. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165913	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165914	Thank you, thank you very much, so I will answer the question that I don't know how to count, you can check, all the championships while I was in primary school and high school in mathematics I won, so this about you answers, and as far as your medicine is concerned, that's how diagnostic, differential, diagnostic and not going at the same time in therapy, so allegory is something that you as an educated man know what it is, so think a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165915	Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165916	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Kujundzic, here you have managed to make us laugh, here I thank you. I have two questions, so first you spoke for yourselves about false defenders and false pensioners, false defenders of disabled people, people who drive angry cars, so since you've now had an exhibition on behalf of the government of the Republic of Croatia, then I ask you openly what you and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have done in the last 3 years. to solve this problem that obviously burdens Croatian society? And secondly, I want to know what you've been saying about Mrs., about Mr. Grubin's wife, if I've taken a good bite, you've said something, so tell everyone now, there's no reason we're hiding anything, I'd like to hear it, I believe the others are interested in exactly what it's about, and I don't have anything to say to you, but I better keep quiet, let's tell us now to everyone, so make us laugh to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165917	Let's be correct about each other, so let's avoid talking about family, I don't think that's right on either side, so, I think, we keep a certain level, go ahead, Minister. Oh, no? Then let's move on, colleague Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165918	Minister, I have to admit that I like you in those verbal carnages of yours, even if you're cute. It's not easy to follow you because I, for one, am following you. I attack that you have stopped a very important prevention program of breakthroughs, scringing, neck cancer, and you go for a pay phone and you say that, it was not in the SDP, it was in HDZ, it should follow you really, and the truth is, it was a national programme for early detection of uterus cancer adopted at a meeting of the government in July 2010, only a national programme, and the Ministry of Health launched it in November 2012, so it started with that SDP. Secondly, you say the breast, breast cancer that's in the fall, give us that data, I have something completely different, from the register 2012. 2450, 2013 2562 women, 2014 2644, 2015 2748, It's not exactly what you're saying, Minister, it's not true. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165919	You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165920	Look at the latest data and you'll see. You know that in science depending on the source and interpretation sometimes there are statistical oscillations, so recently society has published look at these results, I think five days ago, you can look at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165921	Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165922	Thank you. Minister, you mentioned getting stent within an hour, right? That might be you or the Prime Minister. You know what it looks like in my box? You come to the emergency room, locked the door, so you don't know if you'd wait for the team or if you wouldn't wait for the crew because it's somewhere in the field, and then you head to Sisak, you come to the old boarding house if you didn't die there, then when you see the environment there, you'd rather kill yourself. Who can get stent within an hour? An ordinary man can't, an ordinary man can't get a normal search when he needs one. Hundreds of people call us for a promised CT, for a simple ultrasound, let alone a stent within an hour. I cannot reach a doctor in Zagreb, but they are condemned to be in some hospitals that are very, very bad. You know how it stands in Sisak-Moslavina County, Sisak Hospital and you know how the mayor manages it and doesn't care about patients in Sisak-Moslavina County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165923	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165924	Look, I'm really telling the facts. So I've given you numbers to increase the number from year to year in intervening cardiology, and even 4% has increased in a one-day hospital the implantation of stents or dilations and coronaryography. So, the network works regardless of whether you are now somewhere in Lica, in the Dalmatian Zagora at a distance of 40 minutes you'll get it. You're going to get that so it's really a reality. Individual cases, unfortunately, I can't, and I know her well about the hospital in Sisak. And there this government invested, and there we got a new magnet, and as far as the number of procedures are concerned, I've given you numbers as many new CTs are now bought as many magnets, but hopefully as much as every year is done more and more. The truth is there's another problem that we're dealing with where indications are sometimes unwarranted, so that's something that we're also solving with a new IT program right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165925	And the last replica, my colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165926	Dear Mr. Minister, it's called the stomach. To say that this ministry and government are working and taking care of the social security of citizens, it's called the stomach. Since 2004, there has been no change in the price for additional health insurance, since 2012 for 250,000 people the state has stopped paying, these people due to the increase of 10 kuna have to pay 70 kuna, and they are not richer than they are even poorer. It takes a pensioner like that four years to get back to receiving before he started paying for additional health insurance. And now you're talking about social sensitivity, and you have, and you have 500 million kuna in a special account in the CNB of an additional health insurance paying millions and 600 citizens Every month. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165927	Thank you. Here's your answer. Would you like an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165928	And look at the insults I'm not reacting...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165929	A colleague of the Hill, just a little, just a little, buddy of the Hrelja. I ask you not to use such a dictionary here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165930	...here's the stomach, I know a little bit more about the stomach because I've literally been in the human stomach a million times, so if you want, we can talk about that subject, and as far as I'm concerned, I know your initiative that you've had, but believe me, it was naked pulsism, escalating. So let's be realistic, let's be realistic, let's guard all categories of people, don't yell at me, I don't belong to you. Mr. Good day to you. [[When you're lying, man.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165931	Wait a minute, you're getting a warning from a colleague. What you're polite about, well done, you're very nice, good-bye and good night. All right, then, let's go on behalf of colleague Nicole Grmoy. Here's five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165932	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, I will talk about rural space, so in Croatia, a rural area belonging to 73% of the area and about 40% of the population for decades faces the depopulation process and an incomplete primary health care system. The most difficult situation is, however, where health workers work under extremely difficult conditions, on the edge, borderline former warmine and island area with deep structural changes and specific infrastructure, demographic and public health features. Such a difficult situation in Sisak-Moslavina County, in Banovina, is what I was already talking about in the replica. It is not in this area that a network of public health services is filled in some activities such as family medicine, dental medicine, gynecology, home health care and general palitative care. So residents there do not have as much available health care as in the urban part of the Republic of Croatia. So, the health insurance policy here is less valuable than the policy in other areas of the Republic of Croatia, doctors and nurses leave this area because their life is unbearable and significantly more expensive than those who have their colleagues in urban areas. Also, there is a great need for better equipment of offices, additional education and better patient information. But this cannot change the health workers of enthusiasts on the ground, for this is the need for cooperation and understanding at all levels. Also, a significant problem is dysfunction, poor organisation of health homes and inadequate co-operation and coordination with the private practice of family medicine and all other primary health care stakeholders in the local community. Minister, I've already said this in the replica, you know that the primary health care system in Sisak-Moslavina County is collapsing, 70% of the county health care institutions are operating with loss, the same percentage of which has too many unhealthy workers, and in some institutions there are even 42% of unhealthy workers who are financially burdening one of the most underdeveloped counties from which is the largest wave of emigration. In the area of the county there are three homes of health, Sisak, Kutina, Petrinja who are unrelated to each other, working for themselves, and cannot carry out their own tasks without the help of private institutions and offices. What's strange is that 161 concessionaires worth 1.5 million are used to finance the work of the health care home administration, not to invest in the rental space. Let us also add the fact that the decentralised funds at a higher level at County level without specific criteria are passed on to Sisak General Hospital to cover losses and covert expenditures, and to the detriment of primary health care, which should be addressed by 80% of all health needs of citizens. The management of the health care home deals with itself, does not offer any serious rationalisation and savings program in business. Mayor Žinic does not take seriously into consideration the full analysis of health needs and priorities at the county level, in promoting health and disease prevention there are no united campaigns at the level of Sisak-Moslavina County. There are only fewer individual activities of associations and certain health institutions organised on the initiative and on the enthusiasm of individuals. There is also no evaluation of the financed public needs programmes in healthcare. Minister Kujundzic's primary health care in Sisak-Moslavina County has been unwarranted for years, and is now falling completely during your term. Why are you watching and why aren't you doing anything? It's a similar situation, and in my Dubrovnik-Neretva County, there's a doctor missing, you promised more than two and a few years ago a day hospital, and we all see, that's when you said it was a done deal and a done deal. There isn't a day hospital yet, and even when a day hospital is built, there won't be a doctor's staff. And you don't talk about it, you don't want to tell people the truth, you deliberately deceive both Croatian citizens and Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165933	Now let's go with the replicas. He's a colleague of Lenart's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165934	Thank you. You mentioned problems in the Sisak hospital to this colleague, so the county hospital. How difficult it is in that hospital that doctors from that hospital go not to Zagreb, not to Ireland, but to Pakrac. So it's such a difficult situation at the hospital. The problems that arise there the mayor doesn't want to see, and he and his mayor are abnormally hiring their staff around the hospital. Experiences in that hospital are so bad, unfortunately not because doctors are so bad, but conditions that simply parents avoid sucking up hospitals. Minister, do you know that? The people who run the county don't take care of the Sisak hospital, they just cause problems and watch them spin some money there, and they don't care about health at the Sisak hospital. It's hard in Banovina. It's hard in Moslavina, too, in the whole county.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165935	Thank you very much. You're talking to your colleague Grumoji, not the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165936	Yes, a respected colleague, so I brought out 42% of the unhealthy workers in some county health care facilities. It's pure party entanglement. Well, they will, they will destroy the health system in Sisak-Moslavina County. The Minister and Prime Minister are doing nothing. In Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the home of health in Metkovic, so who is responsible for this situation, who is the responsible colleague of Celic, who manages the health home of Metkovic for 29 years, who is responsible? Jambo was one time, but it's the same product of HDZ, Jambo was once head of the county, for four years alone. The SDP has been the mayor of Spralje for 4 years. All the rest of HDZ. Who's responsible for this situation? No, we weren't in power in the county, we were in the city, and you should know that the city doesn't run the health home, but to run the county, at the county level we've never been with HDZ in power, you see. If you hadn't gotten to know the sad, you'd be lit up by the lights of Zagreb, you'd forgotten. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] your county and your city. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165937	Comrade Grmoy, I'd like to ask you nicely to lower the ball a little bit, and I'd like to ask you not to interrupt your colleague Grumo while he's replicating or someone else. We're moving on to the next line. A fellow Grmo... We move on to the next line, dear colleague Željka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165938	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague of the Grmoy on several occasions you've called me and my hospital, so I just have to tell you that the mammal hospital isn't as bad as you claim and say some county institutions have 47% of unhealthy workers, so why don't you say which ones they have. The Sisak hospital as an average of Croatia has about 27% of unhealthy workers. As for the doctor at the Sisak hospital, they are extremely good quality and carry out their activities. As far as pediatrics at the Sisak hospital are concerned, I am responsible for saying that they are good pediatricians because I treat my child exclusively in mammalian pediatrics. As for investments in a mammal hospital, I don't know how much you know, but that's where you build a united hospital reception, a day hospital, invests in equipment, invests in people. The county has now invested 60,000 kunas in doctoral scholarships in the field of health care. So it's not some kind of fiction that's facts. There's a lot more to be said here, but... Of course we don't have any more time. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165939	Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165940	Dear colleagues, I have not mentioned you in a single word, I don't know why you felt called, I didn't mention, I didn't mention doctors and their enthusiasm at all, although I was talking about the doctor's enthusiasm that doctors were doing their job well, I was talking about the Mayor Žinić and the infatuation of party personnel and the poor condition of the health system, and why you felt called, why you must defend Mayor Žinić, that is the question you must give an answer to, I unfortunately cannot give an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165941	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165942	Thank you very much, Vice President. The problem that a colleague of Grmoja points out is not something unique to the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately the French rural environments and German ones have a similar problem with the human deficit. Last week I spoke to several mayors or local leaders, let's say the commissioners who told me that even when they discuss the hospital's tender, the doctors, that the tenders must be repeated several times because no one is answering, and when someone does, then the person has a problem that the wife will be unemployed, and even if they would hire him, they have to offer him an apartment because it's simply such a bad interest for those mid-doctors that people no longer know what to do in those places, the problem is not unique to the Republic, it's a problem that is happening now in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165943	Thank you. My colleague Lenart, please, I didn't give you my word. You have my colleague Grumo's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165944	Dear colleagues, I'm interested in the Republic of Croatia, my focus is on the Republic of Croatia, I don't deal with international optics as it likes to tell the Prime Minister, I don't care what the situation is here or there, I'm interested in how Croatian people live in all parts of Croatia, whether the Constitution has guaranteed equal health care or not, I'm dealing with it, you're dealing with France, I'm dealing with Sisak, Sisak-Moslavina County, I'm dealing with Dalmatian Zagora, I'm dealing with my Neretva, that's what I'm interested in, my Slavonia, and you're dealing with France, and maybe you've highlighted a candidate for a future Europarliatary I don't know why you are engaged in France, it's not the subject of France, it's the Croatian health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165945	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. Next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165946	So let's just go back to that daily hospital in Metkovic that Metkovic really needs. Col. Petrov kept saying that we must clearly understand that what is necessary is the rapid transport of patients to the nearest institution that can provide, meaning in heart attack, in severe accidents, in the heart attack, the intervention needed, and until otherwise it can be resolved in the KBC in Mostar, they were very surprised and ridiculed, in the end it happened, it is good, it is interreg cooperation, what we must do wherever we have such pockets where we do not have our health care facility within that country, it is known in Europe in many places, in over 200 places, but this is for example. Not allowed in Umag to deal with Isola but fully signed contracts were signed, but now the problem of the daily hospital, the daily hospital cannot supply Dubrovnik Because Dubrovnik doesn't have enough doctors, that's the problem. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] and we didn't get that answer. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165947	Here's a reply from your colleague Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165948	Dear colleagues, the best answer to your question is the prime minister's silence when I asked the same question, so he stayed sitting without an answer because there is no answer. So, the day hospital, yes, but the day hospital, two and a few years ago, was a done deal to see today that it's not a done deal, and even when it's done, we have a lack of medical staff, and now people are calling me, she asked a colleague where it's 42% of the unhealthy staff, you know where, in the Public Health Office of Sisak-Moslavina County and there's 42%, where you're humanizing, where you're in love, that's why you've felt called, so because your client who has delegated you here to HS there, there's a bonding.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165949	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague of HS Vice President Željko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, when I heard for the second time in a year that a question of confidence would be raised by Minister Milan Kujundzic, I expected at least one serious proposal supported by arguments, whether I agree with them or not. What came, however, was one poor item on the formal page and a third, but actually given that a third of the first page takes up the story of, on the basis of which the article and the date etc., actually one page of the text. One page of text filled with flat-rate unargumented accusations which for the purpose only have dusting in public. I thought that no doctor was involved in writing such a text, unfortunately here is the discussion of some convinced me because I was convinced that it could not be written by any doctor, but that it could not be written by anyone who really understood the finances because they believed or not for such a serious thing, so the replacement of one minister, the office of one page, has no single number, literally no single figures, and with that intention, is intended to replace one minister. It's just embarrassing, it's miserable, you could at least try to find something objective to find, find some numbers, find some arguments, so it's not that hard it's tampered with in half an hour you probably keep that one page of text, without repeating literally and a single number. Not a single argument and of course it's completely missed. In no one's place does it say what Milan Kujundzic did wrong, what he did specifically wrong, which he made bad moves, in which he damaged the health system, not a single fact. This is a proposal made up of a big one on one page, pathetic by the compilations, unverified news, newspapers that can be found in the Internet's impertinent portals, social networks, and I see that some of them are now getting some data, they need to be collected now, they weren't able to collect it when they wrote this one page of text. Of course, the opposition has the right to ask questions about the trust of any minister and it does, but this article gives the impression that the opposition only uses the benefits of the Rules of Procedure to achieve some kind of little visibility because it is probably not otherwise such visibility that it can be obtained. Let's go take a look at the facts though, so I like numbers even though I'm a doctor and I like to handle numbers. Do you think that the health care system in Croatia is really disastrous, so that you do not go out to be treated, so go out for at least once. Have you ever visited a state-owned foreign hospital, I'm stressing state and there you've seen what it looks like. Have you ever done that, so you can compare, that you can say that what's good, and this isn't right. We are talking about a country where up to EUR 750 per capita for health care has been allocated recently. This government raised it to EUR 802 per capita. Do you know how much the average EU per capita is allocated to health care? EUR 3,076. Compare ourselves with some countries, we like to compare with other countries, and I think we also need to compare with other countries. For example, Slovenia stands out about EUR 1,500 per capita, do you think that health care is half worse than Slovensko, and we spend almost half the money. The Czech Republic stands out EUR 1,100 per capita, Slovakia also 970, Austria 4,000. Do you think in Croatia health care is really 5.6 times worse than it is in Austria? No, I assure you it's not because I've been to Austrian hospitals, and you haven't been, this one except maybe some jobs I wouldn't like to mention. There are no countries, there are countries that single out as much as EUR 6 or 7,000 per capita in the EU, so 10 times more than we single out, and I say responsibly that we have excellent health even though we stand out incomparably less than many other countries, most countries. And why do we have such good health care? Because we have a very good fit for both doctors and sisters and quite certainly that with 7.4 gross domestic products, the percentage that we make for health care, and the European average is 9.9% we have really good health care. When we talk about numbers there are some colleagues with numbers about how it is, I don't know how big the obligations have become now, etc. Here's a chart, here's a chart of commitments per year from 2012 to 2019, so see if today's commitments are bigger than when some others are headed by the government, those who have frozen salaries, those who have taken away the Santa Clauses, who have taken away the regression, etc., etc. Or we have to forget all that. Of course, in Croatia I have always claimed there is one disease, and it is called political amnesia, so for a moment, let us forget what any year is, and sometimes a few months ago. Do you know how many, but that was because several times it was emphasized, it stands out for expensive medicines in Croatia? This government has doubled that amount to almost a billion and a half, it is a rare thing in the world, believe me, and especially in countries that single out such a percentage of GDP as the Republic of Croatia, and especially in countries that in absolute terms single out such small funds for health care, not because it would not want to isolate more, of course, but because it was only this government that began economic recovery while they were destroying this country for years. Do you know how much drugs cost? Do you know that only one patient of a rare disease, such as geese or Fabria disease, spends about 2.5 million kuna per year on drugs alone, for some others the same as rare, mucopolysaccharidosis, about 4 million kuna per year only medicines, one treatment procedure per year such as apheresis costs about $15 million per year for one patient, I will not mention now a spinraza that costs 640.000,00 kn and that is all available to our patients, so go to some other countries and see what is available as part of compulsory health insurance in those countries, countries that single out two, three, four times as much as it can single the Republic. That's the data, that's not hitting on the ease of qualifications that actually stand in this proposal. I repeat, there is no single figure in this proposal, there is simply one impression that the work of opposition Milan Kujundzic does not like, they are not happy with it. Now why, if it has any basis, whether it has any real failings in it, we can't find out anything about it from that war. Do you know how much in all countries, not the Republic of Croatia, the average annual cost of medicines alone increases in all countries? About 10 to 12% every year and then compare some things today to things I don't know from 5 years ago. or 10 years. It's absolutely meaningless, it's not just happening in the Republic, it's happening in all countries because there's a new drug coming in, which is a smart medicine, that comes in new appliances that we're getting and that we're equipping hospitals with, and I'm actually going to tell you a cruel truth now, we have a health care that's incomparably better than we have the economic power of the country. Thank God she's been up in the last 3 years. It increases, but it continues to be a far-reaching quality of health care, our health care equipment outweighs our financial opportunities, and let's be aware of that, let's not talk about impressions. It's also about debts, a completely false term just points to the ignorance of those who talk about health debts, we can talk about the obligations that have been made and the total commitments. Whether total liabilities have increased compared to before 3.g.? No, they're not. Have an increase in health obligations compared to the situation before 3rd g.? No, let's look at the numbers again, let's not hit on the old ones, but let's look at the numbers, let's look at the debt, let's look at the government if we want debt terminology, she inherited it, and she didn't increase it, but she did do something and cut it down. The commitments that exist tried to get rid of them, 1.9 billion kuna was given 10 days ago to large-scale drug companies sent 300 million kunas for paid-off drugs of 500 million as long as they were due by the end of this year, as far as I can see, some may think they've arrived, but they haven't arrived yet, there's plenty of time until the end of the year. Of course, the salaries of either sisters or doctors who do both work very responsible and hard work are not what we would like, but are what financial help can be achieved. At 3.G. Salaries are up 18%, sure everybody wants to be bigger, but that's the only thing that's possible. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165951	...to a respected colleague. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Nikola Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165952	Dear Prime Minister, I see you're going, we haven't had the opportunity to seek a break, but after this scandalous statement by the Academy of Reinera, it was certainly necessary to request a break because he called on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that if they think their health system is poor in the Republic of Croatia, they should go abroad to be treated. It would have been better if he hadn't said anything, if he had lost this debate today, but unfortunately here he had a need to say something, and he didn't help Minister Kujundzic either, but neither did this government. What he also tried to warn us about was comments from comparisons with other countries, for example. Slovak. Slovakia has only a million people more than the Republic of Croatia, we have 60 billion total GDP, and those 110, so these are the scales of Croatian lags for Central Europe countries, who is responsible for this academic Rainer? Who is responsible because we are twice behind Slovakia? The HDZ is responsible, Academyman Reiner, HDZ is responsible because we are twice behind Slovakia. You were saying that we're presenting some incorrect data, I've given the exact data, and then people have confirmed it to me, and to show you how well we've prepared here and the graph, here and the tables, means the name of a health care institution and how many unhealthy staff, the Public Health Institute, 42%, the psychiatric hospital, Ivan Barbot Popovača 39.2%, Topusko Health resort 36.1%, Ivo Pedišić Sisak 28.2% of the unhealthy staff, and we are very well prepared. So, all this stuff you said during your presentation doesn't stand, the extra messages from the field now from the people I'm receiving, here's an example. The director of the Knin hospital says people pay 33.000,00 kn, 4 times she showed up at the hospital, the hospital in a blockade, huge problems, begging me to warn, to take it out. Also, party entanglement in the board, etc., everything, the same click party, so people see it, you can't hide it, so people see it, you go to convince us now, we know that we have good doctors, we know that we have quality medical staff, we know that our people make up for all the problems of the health system with their enthusiasm, we know how many overtime they have, so we know anyway how many lawsuits it was, we know how much it's going to cost our state budget, and no one has ever told the academics Reiner about it, but your message to the Croatian citizens that if they have a bad Croatian health system, to go out there, it may be possible that some prominent HDZ politicians can get treated outside, Croatian citizens can't do that, and that message you sent from here you shouldn't have. What I would like to point out here, there is nothing against Minister Kujundzic personally, here is the man, and we haven't said a word about him, we said about what he missed to do in the healthcare system, you said nothing was made out of what he did wrong, so you don't have to do something bad, it's enough that you don't do anything, and nothing is actually done, you boast that the debts are not increased, as you say these are not debts, they have reached and failed obligations, but how much the funds in the Croatian health system have been broken, and you are now boasting that there has not been an increase. We are not satisfied with this, against the minister personally we have nothing as a man means because I have no reason to have anything, no harm done to any of us here, except that he tried to take away these colleagues who are doctors, take away the licenses because they criticized him, which is invisible in democracy, so if I'm politically criticising someone then he's going to take away my bread and try to take away my medical license, I think it's invisible in some democratic system, but here and here we forgive this one, but the inaction in the health system we can't forgive it and therefore seek the resignation of Minister Kujundzic, or I'm asking for impeachmention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165953	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague vice president HS, Mr. Zeljko Reiner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grmoi, you know if you want to quote me then quote me correctly, not falsely, because you know very well that I did not say that Croatian citizens should go to treat themselves outside, but I said if you saw what hospitals look like outside, so that you can compare it, I'm sure you're not, quite sure that you're not, then don't tell the truth, don't say that I told the truth because it's typical that you know who it is, set that maxim, if you say it's 100 times the truth, it'll become true, so you probably think that if you're repeating the truth, it won't, because I didn't say it, and you won't convince anyone that I said it, but you did say something that's very, very, very, very, very, very unfortunate, very bad, and that it's better not even say it's not at all. That the health care had been broken down by the funds [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] So what do you think doctors and nurses are spilling drugs in? [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] I don't know. [[Aggression: A colleague]] Because that's how you behave. [[Agreement: My fellow Reiner thanks]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165955	You're out of time. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go. You can turn off your colleague Reiner, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165956	Dear Academyman Reiner, you have invited citizens and parliamentary representatives if they think it is a bad Croatian healthcare system to go to be treated outside, and Croatian, Croatian,... that they are going to be treated outside, and Croatian citizens have said what they think about this minister, look at the research of the public change and what they think about the Croatian health system, and I have said nothing about Croatian doctors and nurses, but I have told your administration, the way you manage it, the way you manage your party staff to run your homes of health, hospital and Croatian healthcare systems, so it is quite clear what I said, and I commended Croatian doctors and nurses. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165957	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165958	Dear comrade Grmoja, you are calling me Metkovic, you well know that I am the parliamentary representative of the 7th Election Unit, I can now list what I was doing in the area of health care in the City of Zagreb, from the improvement of psychiatry, older age, mental health, prevention of addiction, etc., and I ask you what you did while you were running the city of Metkovic and what you are doing now although you are not acting in power in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The town of Metkovic this year has allocated 500,000 kn for the transport incubator. I think that as well as you were leading the city of Metkovic you could invest a lot more in health care, although it is the county's intelligence and I know well what the county's ingenuity is instead of being blinded by rotational lights and bugs in your ears and acting as some revolutionaries, you should have taken over health care, education and such resors, Strenja refused to tell the health minister's post so they could see what you could do, and yet you acted as a national government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165959	Thank you. My colleague Grmo's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165960	Colic, you know what we've been doing, we've been paying back the debts of your party's coalition partner Stipe Gabric Jambe, we've been doing this for four years, and we've been resisting the leadership of the House of Health, Metkovic, and we've warned the mayor of this situation. Do you remember when the picture of Tomislav Karamark and God Petrov came out on the road, someone took pictures of them, and then Mr. Bozo Petrov, as mayor of Metkovic, warned the HDZ president of the unsustainable state of health that was run by the HDZ county. And since we've been trying to change things, and your coalition partners have ruined the town of Metkovic, we've made everything nice for you now, you've got a double budget and here's the deal you've got our full support. And all that's good I'll support.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165961	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Can we get on with it, buddy? Thank you very much. We have the next line, dear colleague Željka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165962	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague Grmoy, the two of us, all the time, about my Sisak-Moslavina County, we're arguing. As far as the Institute of Public Health is concerned, I'm not an expert in how he's set up, but a little bit better than you are, I understand that the Institute of Public Health is set up, so you say there are 42% of me now not counting on how much in percentages, but I'd say from those visible data on their sites, I'd say that there are 15% of doctors in the Department of Ecology, there are 22 employees, so we're talking about highly educated chemical engineers, biochem engineers, chemical technicians, 2 administrative secretaries are in the department in the Department of Epidemiology, and one small part that is naturally inherited by cleaners, there are 6 and 5 of them in accounting. So, let's not tell people now how someone's infatuating themselves there are people who work there for a number of years regardless of who's in power. And that's how public health institutions work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165963	Thank you, colleagues. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165964	That number is unrealistically high and you can't deny it, but what's interesting is you were talking about Sisak General Hospital. It generated a revenue deficit in 2018 amounting to 27.5 million kuna while the transferred deficit from 2017 amounted to 78.8 million kuna. So this is the result of the people you're talking about, this is the result of the work of Zinic Mayor and other teams, which is the result of the work of HDZ, Minister Kujudzic, Mayor Zinic and others, these are your results. And you have to deal with it. I'm not arguing with you, I'm giving facts, and what you have to react and defend indefensibly tells you again, it's not mine, but it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165965	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165966	You chairman, I welcome again, now we're going to do a little something about the club's name and a little bit about numbers. So, in the last request for recall, Minister Kujundzic in the assembly, he stated in written material by the Government for the rejection of the application that EUR 35 million was secured for emergency helicopter medical services and the purchase of helicopters from EU funds, the purchase of 4 helicopters and scheduled work at 3 permanent and 3 occasional bases was envisaged. It's been more than a year since mentioned, which is with this project and in fact in this explanation, in response to our request for recall, we don't have a single word we don't have about emergency helicopter service. So, the government's decision has not been made, it's wandering, it's improvising, it's changing the ministries that are working on it, and within the health ministry, disunity in views that are completely visible and complete inactivity remains. Therefore, emergency helicopter medical services, Croatia and Slovenia are the only EU countries that do not have an emergency helicopter medical service or medical transport is carried out by the military. Even Albania has, the military has been doing this with us, even Albania has had the service for 2 years. It significantly saves the number of lives and reduces the severity of human injuries. The analysis of cases has shown that the speed of arrival of a physician to a life-threatening person and the rate of accommodation of a person at risk in a health institution reduces mortality, disability and enables rapid recovery and return to work and life. That's that gold watch. So he's a system that consists of a lot of elements that need to work in harmony for the benefit of life-threatening patients to save lives. So the important elements are the emergency call reception center, which then decides whether a hospital car or a helicopter is going on the basis of indications. A helicopter base with a helicopter on board a pilot and a doctor and a medical technician. A team with a helicopter takes off in three minutes and in a golden hour or a previously endangered person surrenders to the hospital. Hospital trained to accept all types of life-threatening and life-saving, and in which there is a helipad for the reception or transfer of persons, patients come to such an institution. Therefore, the establishment of emergency helicopter medical assistance from the national interest in the Republic of Croatia. The one who can Google will see that in this regard I was persistent against Minister Varga who was then, because I work with such patients, then he created a pilot project where he really beat up a lot of money and we had fast, we had helicopters that couldn't fly at night, that couldn't fly in bad weather and didn't even fly on the weekends. And that was bad, but it worked out that they were still more available than now that we have still these military helicopters that can't land anywhere, where you still have to drive with the patient's car to a helipad where he'll take it. So we have a large number, why we need it, we have a large number of residents and guests meaning tourists outside the reach of hospitals, emergency services and the possibility of transportation to the hospital and these are islands, mountainous areas and highways because our guests are mostly from countries where they actually have an emergency helicopter medical service. We have more than that, which is why we need it because we have more than 23 thousand deaths than heart attacks and strokes a year. So we know exactly how important it is that after a stroke, the patient gets to the facility fast enough, that he can get thrombolysis, or that he can go with the extraction of that clot means the thromboleectomy that is now available but how long it takes to get the primary coronary intervention. And because we have more than 300 people killed in traffic and 2700 people badly injured in traffic a year. So the basic mistakes of those who actually need to consider an emergency helicopter service is that it's just a transport of a medically equipped helicopter of a life-threatening patient, that it's a need for islands only, that a doctor first comes with a hospital car to a patient and then it's called a helicopter, that a helicopter is not needed by a doctor, that it's possible to organize a multi-purpose service means equipment in a helicopter a golden watch and the priority of using a helicopter without a clear system and that it's still charged everything from the budget and not to charge to strangers what we also have to do. So all of this really needs to be considered when considering this service. What is the current situation in Croatia? From the airport Krk and from Split all year round, Morh helicopters, multi-purpose, heavy, transport helicopters that can't reach the patient or directly to the hospital. With that hour of flight, it costs 52,000 825.60. We have the right price. There's only three summer months from Chilipa's EC135 helicopter. In 2019 to 25.9. from the three bases Split, Krk and Dubrovnik were transported by MORH helicopters 711 patients, the MUP means Dubrovnik in those 3 months 160 patients, 76% were citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Now that helicopter is now grounded. So the government's decision to organise and establish an emergency helicopter medical service as needed for Croatia has not yet been made. I guess the proposal was supposed to be given by a working group that we've already heard hasn't met since April. So emergency helicopter medical services are referred to as part of a multi-purpose service but not an independent service which is not actually an EU approach. We have enough life-threatening cases in the Republic of Croatia for emergency helicopter medical services to be an independent and profitable service in the civil sector and in accordance with European regulations and requirements. It is a system that, without setting all segments of the system, will be a problem in functioning where paid study for establishment has not been published, neither publicly nor professionally verified. And the purchase of helicopters is now being talked about within two ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior. It is therefore included in the MORH which would conduct the whole procedure. They say 35m euros are secured, and if financed from the state budget, there will be no possible charge of the service. So Austria went with the police to leave it to civil society to work with helicopters. In most countries in Europe that have emergency helicopter medical services, he works in the civil sector. So we are witnessing investments in hospitals, in Rijeka, in Zagreb, in Pula. How many reconstruction projects or construction of new emergency receptions that are still sufficient and in these old hospitals are provided for helipads according to all legal regulations with the possibility of day and night landing of small helicopters in the immediate vicinity, which means 30 meters from the hospital or on the roof of the hospital. In the world, it's standard for every emergency facility to have a helipad for day and night helicopters. So, the health minister cited talks and negotiations because they have resources and with the meaning of the MORH and with the MUP, talks about the use of pilots and airports for emergency helicopter, medical services. He proved to his views that he doesn't really understand what this system should look like and what it should really be, what the work group should be doing. So, in short, you can't see anywhere in this entire system and in focus the man and the speed of his rescue. They're not planning to, so they're planning occasional bases that would be in Slavonia. Why don't you think in Slavonia over 24 hours 365 days it also takes fast enough to get a patient to the hospital within the golden hour? It's not just about patients with a heart attack and a stroke, it's about patients after a serious car accident. So you can't see where the man is anywhere. Everything else is more emphasized, multi-purpose and connected... The people won't be doctors just driving, it's expensive, we don't have money now, we can get an ambulance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's delayed, but the decision has to be made. It is therefore necessary to finally, professionally and responsibly approach and prepare the organisation of this service. So in this argument of the government although we have asked about it we have not a single word. Medical technology in clinical centres where our experts can save lives is available and it is clear that modern emergency helicopter transport is a missing link in the viability of survival that depends on the speed of arrival in a clinical hospital center. So we're expecting some sort of emergency helicopter medical solution, not just empty promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165967	I'd like to thank my colleagues. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Kreso Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165968	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Brkic. Dear Mr. Minister, I'll be brief I have half, half will Dr. Mrsic who will certainly tell you a lot of things. And I'll remind you of some of your speeches or some of your statements from a few months ago or even shorter. 15.8. If I remember correctly, you said in one interview, in an interview that you were a peasant from Imotski, and today you said you weren't a politician, and now I'm going to deny you in a few minutes one and another claim. You were a peasant from Imotski Mr. Kujundzic, but you were no longer, because you lived at the time of the system that you so mocked today that as a peasant with no chance of becoming a peasant in any democratic world under the quotes of the Western world, without any kuna or then a dinar of paid tuition, you ended up specialising and becoming what you actually wanted to become and what you wanted to become today is a citizen and not a peasant, because if you were a peasant, you would not be in the HDZ, but you are not because you are not a peasant because you have become a politician in the meantime. You became a politician who has a great ambition, a great ambition to be president of the HDZ first, and then loses, and then starts his own party because he has to be president, so the party loses one and another elections disastrously, and then he has to be minister, it's not enough to be an ordinary parliamentary representative or something has to be cool, he has to be a minister. You yourself said you weren't interested in it, but you and your interest, you said there was no PR service, but that's how you have a good PR service because you suffer about functions. I'm convinced you want to be a knight, just like your colleague Reiner. That's your ultimate goal, your function. No more countes, if there were any countess, you'd want to be Earl today. This is how knight Kujundzic sounds nice and that's what you want. The problem is, and there would be Mr. Celic your colleague as a psychiatrist or Mr. Petrov who today should not be diagnosed with what kind of complex it is when someone doesn't want to be who he is at birth but wants to be a knight no less than a knight. And then he harasses all of us here together that he is not a politician, explains the situation in Croatian health, and all of us who have had the older ones who remember this under quotes of the nakaradan system are very well remembered that this system has been with all the problems, with all the shortcomings, with all the difficulties, with all the scratching in certain segments for Western countries regarding health care, mainly local health care practically at the top of the world. I've got some families in America who came to visit us in the early '80s after 50 years, and they're wondering how we don't pay the doctor here. In America, how they explained to us every time you open the door to pay 20 bucks, we laughed at how it was possible for us of course it wasn't. Now, you see this same America that you, as a future knight, view as a complete ideal for the knight, that America has a health system that leaves 20 million people practically die if they don't have money, that's what you as a minister, Knight Kujundzic wants Croatia. It is not Croatian interest, it is not something Croatian citizens want, and that is what you want to privatise health care to the end to create a way, to create conditions for those who have money to choose will be treated in private clinics in Zagreb or Vienna, Graz as knight Reiner or I don't know anywhere, and those who have no money, and that is the great majority of Croatian citizens to die of the most common diseases. This is the way you run Croatian health care. Yes, and now Mrsic will continue, there he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165969	A respected representative, Miranda Mrsic, will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165970	Respect for everyone, an interesting debate, today we are discussing the recall of the former health minister. Why the ex? Because the minister was due to resign the moment the prime minister refused to paralyze the agreed agreement with doctors, nurses and other employees. In normal countries, every minister should resign then, but former Minister Kujundzic is obviously a political coward and that is what adorns him and throughout his mandate because the ego of former Minister Kujundzic and the fear of Plenkovic to relieve him of his duties have led to the situation we are in today. In the situation that Plenkovic has decided that Kujundzic is doing him less harm as a minister than a parliamentary representative, and only less damage to Plenkovic's survival in power while the destruction of the health system for Plenkovic is a minor problem. I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here. The political survival and survival of HDZ in power is above the health of the country's citizens. That's what we're discussing today. And there is no doubt that former Minister Kujundzic will remain former in office because in this assembly it is perfectly normal that the chips will raise their hands for Plenkovic and themselves. The incompetence of this government has brought the health system to the brink of collapse, you don't believe me, go to one home of health or hospital and line up with a number of citizens and you'll see a picture of our health system, a picture of this government's unhappiness and the situation is worse today than we had in '90. during the war when some defended Croatia from the Bavarian meadows or organised aid from Germany. I could have stayed in America at the time and organized assistance from America, but I returned to Croatia, made myself available to the Croatian state and was who I am, and this is the doctor who treats people and helps his country. Today we are discussing the Minister of Health and it is the turn why the Democrats will vote for impeachment. HDZ spoke of waiting lists will shrink, waiting lists have increased, debt said will be recovered, billions of kunas of debts are no longer counted because we don't know when we'll pay them back. This month health care, hospitals have 150 million kuna losses, it's going to be a billion and a half losses, 8 billion losses are in health care, and no one's saying it's something to solve. This is not only the HDZ problem, it was the problem of all governments, but the minister who has good economic conditions in the government, who has a budget charge, which things are well solved has done nothing to solve this because the only solution is the rationalisation of the hospital system. Without rationalizing the hospital system, there's no way to resolve the health debt problem. And the minister didn't do anything. Hospitals will do business without loss. Are there hospitals without loss? We're talking about increasing the amount of the supplementary insurance policy, we've been talking about abolishing 3% of pensioners for a long time, all the HDZ government could have done. We couldn't do it because it was a crisis, but we could have done it, Mr. Boric, you could have done it now and don't hide behind us if you're political cowards if you're saying it's all the SDP's government's fault and HDZ couldn't do anything. Minister Kujundzic hid behind me about representativeness and there is a political cowardice because if you want, he could get rid of it, but you can't get rid of it. Yeah, you can't handle that because you have to deal with the unions, right, Mr. Schucker? We remember 2010 and the Labour Act. Therefore, it is something that needs to be agreed with the unions and Minister Kujundzic that he wanted and could have solved it, but he did not. The outflow of doctors and nurses is a burning problem and instead of solving the accumulated problems, the health minister is building new hospitals. New hospitals that will make new debts and dream of four university hospital centres, people from Split will travel to Klis to get health care there while we have clinical hospitals. It's another PR and spin that only serves to show citizens that there's something to be done. We started a hospital in Zagvozd for 20 minutes, it's a memorial minister, it's likely to be called Milan Kujundzic Hospital somewhere in the future. But why should people from Metkovic from Makarska travel 20 minutes to Zagvozd when they have the same thing in their town. This could be organised both in Makarska and Metkovic and in all those places that require that kind of health care. Hospital budgets are difficult to change, so today you have hospitals that spend 99% of the budget on wages and directors, buildings fail, and for medicines a pile of loss. It is a blood count of Croatian health, it is not from now on and it is not the fault of former Minister Kujundzic for that, but he did nothing to change it because the reform has not been implemented. The only real reform of the health system is the reform of the hospital system, it's the mother of all reforms, and it should have been done now that there's money. Minister Kujundzic received an even 1.5% higher budget because we abolished the employment contribution and contribution to protection at work. 23 billion are available, and no one is satisfied with the citizens or the people who work in health care. The disorder in the health system is a burning problem and it is the direct responsibility of the health minister. Instead of introducing order, the minister deals with the PR and defiled parliamentary deputies. Why didn't you reorganize the system? Why are you destroying homes of health and completely forgetting prevention and prevention campaigns? Unfortunately, for three years, these HDZ governments have been spent in vain because there has been no reform, it is only a greater debt, and happy is the one who is healthy and does not come into contact with this system. Dear colleague Reiner says go and get treated outside, it's probably the HDZ mantra because some of his people have been treated outside. Probably the esteemed colleague Reiner didn't mean it that way, but it sounded that way and that's something that's not a good message from this debate. It is sad to see that all the measures proposed in the system of this Government are primarily aimed at fiscal consolidation of a system which will neither blame nor be obliged to be borne by the citizens of this country and, moreover, with a consequence that will not be an improvement in the quality of the health care provided or an increase in the level of health care provided. The unorganized system cannot function no matter how much money you invest in it. We can shelter 30 billion in the health system instead of 23, if we don't get it done, it won't be effective. The last line of defense of the social state is public health, and therefore we need to put order into the system immediately. building new hospitals, buying expensive devices will not solve the problems of Croatian health care. On this occasion, I would like to clearly and openly tell the Croatian citizens the measures taken by this government in the health system are extremely dangerous and harmful to public health systems and those which do not take and would have to threaten to destroy the public health care that we remember forever. That's why the minister has to leave, and that's why this government has to go too. And finally, I'm talking to my colleagues from MOST who have launched this initiative, gentlemen, when you've brought HDZ to power for the third time, at least make sure that the citizens remain something of public health because this is also your responsibility and you've brought HDZ to power twice, if necessary and for the third time you will, because for that people's, third time and God helps, the minister likes to do business with these post-its. Don't make the same mistake the third time. HDZ did what he did, according to that, because we are where we are and the minister himself who hides behind other colleagues is just an ordinary political coward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165971	In the name of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165972	Thank you, Vice President. So, I'd like to touch the important things here in the debate, so we're talking about the state of health in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. So we have one team of T1 in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, so one doctor in the emergency service for the entire Dubrovnik area for 24 hours, it's a complete disaster. The ministry of Kujundzic said it would call on the doctors from Dubrovnik hospital to the field in the city and out of town to take care of the state of emergency but who will then worry about the needs of patients in the hospital. They barely succeed in closing the doctor’s duty frameworks without the help of 40 percent of doctors who are employed in Dubrovnik Hospital on the basis of an operating contract which also leads the hospital to the competent state authorities, so the hospital can put the key in the lock tonight. But that's not the only thing that people at Dubrovnik Hospital warn me about, and they're asking me to ask the question of the health minister why he's not responding to reports of irregularities and illegality, discrimination and mobbing at the General Hospital of Dubrovnik, which is being blamed by the director who's messing with the work of the union, and he's created a union branch of doctors under his authority. Can the minister and the people from the field explain too many differences in the salaries of the doctor at the General Hospital of Dubrovnik and how money is being paid through the so-called so-called hospital. Marine medicine is extracted from the Dubrovnik General Hospital, where 22 million kunas have been spent, so doctors and medical technicians are literally killed here, it's a question from the General Hospital of Dubrovnik. You didn't need this, we didn't bring anyone into power twice, if we had brought someone into power, HDZ wouldn't have destroyed its own government. And your fellow ministers you were sitting with in the government are holding Milan Kujundzic at the moment, the pillars of Milanovic's government are now Plenkovic's tokens holding Milan Kujundzic. MOST has twice shown credibility in Croatian politics, left positions after 6 months, did not tighten in the election year, but after 6 months left the government. We're the last ones you can call out, and you didn't need this, we're on the same mission here today to talk about the state of health in the Republic of Croatia, and I'm gonna hold back, I could say anything but my goal is much, much more important. What I'm trying to say here is play a video from today's debate, it's very short. .../Playing recordings from your phone./... This is a message to Croatian citizens by the ruling majority, go treat yourself outside. Go treat yourself outside, it is a message sent by this government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, academician Reiner, Minister Kujundzic and members of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165973	Thank you very much. You abuse the situation of course that I cannot answer you, I did not tell the citizens but to you but well. But good. Let's continue, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Croatia, now will speak the respected Minister Milan Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165974	I welcome you once again, and I thank you for resisting argumentation and especially for being easy to diagnose. Mr. Beljak, in my diagnosis, I'm a little more skilled, but in your case, that Chinese doesn't need to be a stalemate to see a water shoe leak, there shouldn't be a major diagnostic here, so you need to be diagnosed. So I thank you for your diagnosis of me and you come to Dubrava tomorrow, I can't make a diagnosis in Parliament, so come tomorrow and I'll set it up for you. Let's move on,...... Let's move on, I'm talking to you, Mrs. Dark Taritash. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're telling me... Jump happily, now you'll jump joyfully, I look you in the eye, you say today that I can't even be president of the house council. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] my degree of intelligence and ability you could have kept with two goats, but with these two words I will return to you for free and I will give you advice, so I will give you advice, never mention the house again, you for a thousand years, and no one after your home in Gunja you mention, you were surprised the whole world of construction how you managed to achieve the price of 2,000 euros, so so so much for home advice and diagnosis and Miranda talked to you and privatizing my diagnosis, as much as that woman of millions remained in debt, what you did, and everything under the coat of the big party, please, but that's why it was well spoken in HS, we look in the eyes of people, and now I'll come to Grmoje. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This way, I'll get to you next year at 9 a.m., you won't be in parliament, so there won't be a MOST of yours because on Friday, the HDZ next signs, the hospital leaves, and you're down in town at the local level deciding the primary, the day hospital will be built, you could solve the emergency transport to Mostar, you haven't solved. So, I'm seeing you nicely down in the elections, and then we'll talk down and you'll see, and by the way, who'll be working in Zagvozdo, so there's a valley of Neretva, there's sons who know, there's not the empty straws who worked anywhere, and there's a valley of Neretva sons who will come down to work, and they have friends who will come from Zagreb, Split, from Mostar, Dubrovnik who will come and the people in the Neretva valley will, there'll be someone to treat it, and already there's a better condition than it is, than there was. And about Zagvozdo, you want two roars to tell you or what? So Zagvozd is something brilliant, literally for 20 minutes and the Macarans and the Vrgorcans and the Powers... - Wait, wait, [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, because someone knew how to smartly design a hospital there and now people are being treated there, not 20 people from Makarska, Vrgorac and Imotski to Split, but a gastroenterologist came and made 20 gastroscopys, a cardiologist came along and made 20 ultrasounds, so there are those who work, who haven't lived since the early days of politics, but know how to work, so let's just talk nicely about the arguments. You want someone else to pick up? You don't have the guts, bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165975	We've got injuries to the Rules of Procedure somewhere, a respected representative, first honorary representative, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165976	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the minister has injured an officer. 238, disdaining and insulting a representative, and you have injured an art. 239. Dear Vice President, you are known for your easy finger on the trigger when MPs are given notices, but when the minister addresses "you", that is the lower limit to which you have to react, and you have failed to do so and please stop in the following situations of such ministerial squadrons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165977	Thank you. I figured that out because they're colleagues, that's why he came to him with "you," but this one, but I agree, here's the minister in the future, please say "you". Uh, there's been more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, right? Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165978	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, we've heard a lot of things in this HS, but like this, a tone, a finger, resisting MPs, so 232, 238, 239, we haven't seen it yet. So, the minister who's an academic citizen, he's getting informed of the half-portal, what he's saying here, and he wouldn't say out of shame every man who holds onto himself. Minister, you've fallen below every level, I don't know why you're letting this happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165979	Okay, it's your time, it's time...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165980	That's embarrassing for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165981	Your time is up, it's not, you know, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but this is your position on the Minister's words. Uh, now we're going to the replicas, right? Uh, the first respected representative of Whitey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165982	Thank you very much. And why did you get angry with the Minister? Well, I didn't give you a diagnosis, I asked your colleague Cellic to give you a diagnosis, but it's a familiar diagnosis, you know, I'm not a doctor, but I've finished some schools, I've completed two colleges, and I remember, I think it was Jovan Steria Popovic, and it's called the book, or the work of the Poconded Tikva, it's about a diagnosis of a minority, a man who's jumped out of the ditches and then thinks he's the smartest and then wants to be a count, wants to be a baron, wants to be a knight, the greatest knight since the time of King Tomislav.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165983	No, he didn't raise a colleague, did you, colleague Maras, now that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure for insulting the minister? Yeah, yeah, you're late, okay, yeah, yeah, okay. Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165984	No, some things don't deserve an answer. So, some things, some things, some people don't deserve an answer, so my silence is the answer to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165985	The next replica is the esteemed MPs, Dark Tartitash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165986	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, Mr. Kujundzic, Dr. Kujundzic, when he speaks either from a pay phone or from this place, then he talks about himself, and when you have no arguments, then you insult him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165987	Wait, isn't it an insult to tell someone that he can't be president of the house council? I only gave the lady a little advice free of charge about the houses, so I acted extremely politely and gave free advice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165988	The next replica of the respected representative, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165989	Former Minister Kujundzic, and yet you are a political coward, you are now hiding behind me, now behind my family, I was expecting that, that question of yours and yours. So, my family and I have never owed this country a kuna, and what you're talking about is the relationship between a foreign company and a HZZO. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests from whom someone has reported me has made it very clear that I have not been in conflict of interest and these are facts, you are once again a political coward and when you have no arguments then you go hide behind the family, I have not touched your family, nor will I touch it, but political cowardice is something that clearly marks you. And when we talk about Zagvozd, ask the citizens and Metkovic or Makarska whether it is easier for them to go to Zagvozd or to have the same in the home of health that you have all the conditions for gastroscopy to work both in Metkovic and Makarska.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165990	Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165991	If someone else had said this, I'd say that man doesn't know it, but if someone said that you can do gastroscopy, ultrasounds of the heart, so there's no human beings, there's no tools, and that's not how it's done. So let's not sell populism. So this was the perfect place for 20 minutes for everyone to work at every end of the hospital was the idea of MOST to work hospitals. I think they had two ideas hospitals in the Neretva Valley to work, so that's not how it works. My friend Mrs., this has been a really friendly college thing for you, but now you would, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165992	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Klaric. Are you sure it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165993	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Article 228 of his colleague, Mrsic, was injured countless times today during his performances, insulting the minister. I think you as chairman should protect the minister's dignity. He called it an countless times a coward, so Article 238 was injured and I don't think I was wrong when I picked up and you should warn my colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165994	This way I ask you nicely, I won't give you a warning now, I won't give you a warning to my colleague Maras if he has raised it, but I ask you afterwards to give real notice without any thought if you're going to start bickering with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure or abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I can see that it's a bit harsher discussion and the debate might have gone a little bit in one direction that I don't like either, but I can't expect someone to say something a little sharper without the other answering it a little harder, but up to one limit. I'm begging you, let's not go with these injuries to the Rules of Procedure, shall we?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165995	It's just technical. A colleague, Klaric, said 228.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165996	He stood up, but you didn't listen to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165997	He stood up when he got out of the chair or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165998	He's right about that. All right, let's go. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u165999	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you've gone quite in the direction that concerns this debate is irrelevant. I mean, has anyone ever been to a party or not, who here is interested? We're interested in what the citizens think of your system. So do you think we would ever suggest and support something if we thought that citizens think that the health care system is excellent and that you're doing the best job, so that would be political suicide. Well, we've chosen the worst minister, here's what I'm going to admit to everyone, the worst minister in the government, to write a recall, because we think the citizens support it. That's your verdict and diagnosis. You let the psychiatrists, the houses, Zagvozd etc., people think the system is catastrophic and that's why we're looking for your recall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166000	Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166001	Dearest Representative of the Croatian Parliament, I am impressed with your thoughts, but with the health system that you have come in time and you have listened then you will see what has been done in these three years with regard to human resources, about pay, about achieving the safety of treatment outcomes, about the National Anticancer Programme, about investment in oncology equipment in cardio equipment, in gastrointestinal equipment, in radiological equipment, about investments in medicines, about all segments relating to the health system compared to what happened, and by the way, I will now have 18 seconds, why hospitals eat often called county business with loss because you violently removed their limitations, you literally killed county hospitals five, six years ago. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, it's always about talking to the argument with a smile and a look in the eye.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166002	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166003	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Dr Kujundzic, Minister Kujundzic, Mr Kujundzic, politician Kujundzic. ... Debate on behalf of the club, allow [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Please.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Please don't throw it out of the bench, I'm asking you nicely. Let the esteemed representative say, comrades, go ahead.]] When this debate is the second time on the work or recall of Minister Kujundzic, I really feel who in that film Endless Day. It's that movie where the hero-in-chief wakes up and repeats himself all the time that same day. About a very similar debate with very similar arguments, and in a very similar way, it was less than a year ago. The same way Mr Kujundzic reacted very much and mentioned me in the context of construction, and then we met in the hallway and what Mr Kujundzic further told me, I will not mention it from this pay phone, he knows it and I know it. But let's go back to the subject. The theme is the portfolio run by Minister Kujundzic. I've never been or will be a parliamentary representative, I call it general practice to understand everything. And I really don't understand the treatment, nor do I want to discuss it with this pay phone, I understand as a patient. Similarly, there are some MPs who are general practices, which I am not, but when you manage one resort and when you manage one story, then three elements are extremely important. The first element to create legislative frameworks that can be controlled and that will bring a breakthrough to that portfolio. Another element to create material conditions for work, which means, in a specific case, that it is done in quality conditions. And the third thing is people. We're very inclined to forget about that third thing. There's not a single resistor that can function well and well without people. You can make the best hospital in the world, that hospital can be equipped with the best possible devices if there's no one in that hospital that works is everything to you. And what is crucial at this time is people leaving Croatia, people leaving Croatia looking for a better future in some other countries and people who come under windows across the street in Mark's square and who say we will leave because the wages are too low. And what does the minister do about it? She sees, maybe she pats them on the shoulders a little bit and says go where's better. There's no magic wand, no magic wand, neither has this minister, neither have those ministers before, but they've tried their best, they've tried to do something, and this minister has a sin of inaction on him. As a Catholic minister, he knows very well what this sin is, the sin of iniquities. Things will happen on their own, so if it's okay, and if it's not good, my God, I couldn't have done much wrong. And the sin of iniquities is the sin behind this minister. It is a convenient indication of the government, but before that, I should return to what hit the minister, and what I discussed when I also discussed on behalf of the club about Mr Plenkovic's pre-election speech, which we called the Government's 2019 report this time, and then the minister, when I talked about it, was quite offended because I mentioned him in the context of the debate that will now be. What every one of us, when he comes out for this pay phone and starts talking, has to be responsible for what he said, whether he's speaking from here or if he's speaking from his place. And I'm not going to pull what I said at any time because I'm really like someone who's at the head of a party, I think. But I'm going to go back to the government for a little bit, and then something I said, and I told the prime minister. There this summer, the opposition gave a number of requests to recall a number of ministers, for those impeaching series of ministers Mr. Plenkovic gave them up and he said I don't need you, you did too much damage to me, the only minister he didn't give up at the time was Minister Kujundzic. If Minister Kujundzic had happened to be in that package, we would have been at home now, someone would have watched the football game, someone would have seen something else, but Mr Plenkovic did not give up Mr Kujundzic in that package, but he left him here alone. He's gone, left him here alone and said ok, he'll be rude enough, he'll be boastful, so he'll deal with individual parliamentary deputies, which is what he announced in that four-minute speech. This government statement, which was September 19th, is a good sign, and now that you go along with all the elements, the government says in this statement, that it actually advocates and that it does quality health care. I'm gonna go through some things and ask you, you don't have to hear what I think about it. Ask yourself and give yourself such an honest answer for yourself if it's done. Well, let's take it in a row. The decentralisation of health care, is it done, is it done? Better quality primary health care, in which elements is better quality primary health care? Better patient health care, I don't see it, maybe someone sees it. Better working conditions for doctors and other healthcare professionals, somewhere there's a shift, but really ask healthcare professionals and doctors where they work, I won't answer for them, ask them. They're here, there's a lot of MPs left who are doctors, so think about it. Says the more effective emergency medical system, what's done here? The better quality of hospital health care, I'm just reading what the government wrote. Strengthening the daily hospitals, improving the system of paliatical care, what has been done? Effective management of human potential and says the development of health tourism, so it would be convenient to see where and how this health tourism developed when it comes to tourism, it happens in certain buildings, so I could say something about it. One of the things the government says has done has to do with building a national children's hospital in Zagreb. In Zagreb, we have one hospital that was once at the end of the city, and today it is not, which was made up to this level by the citizens of another country, but citizens are always the same only different name. At one point it stopped, a pretty big shift was made because it was cleaned up, so it's no longer in all those grown branches, trees and everything else. For a time, this space was used as a storage facility and a stable, solid, clear coalition of HDZ and Mr Milan Bandic, which is a clear coalition in this assembly, as well as in the assembly, said we will create a national children's hospital. It would be good to do, no one has anything against it. It would be good to have it there, but this government if there is no need and I am of those who are sure that these needs will not be and that we will have the elections, that the government will do its job by the end of the year and that the elections will be at the end of the year because these elections do not depend on coalition partners, these elections depend exclusively on HDZ, the elections will be at the end of the year. In those years, it will be one of the programmes that will be for the next parliamentary elections. Then you get those local elections in 2021, so that hospital will certainly be of these programs and for the local elections in 2021, and that's your next situation. Sava will continue to flow, there's a hospital at the end of town that's no longer a hospital at the end of town we'll, it'll be a little better or a little bit more arranged, different parties will have different programs and we'll have in the government's explanation, says construction of a national hospital, we have a feasibility study in an estimated amount of 10 million kuna, so it'll be convenient to know what's going on for these 10 million kunas and when we say that national hospital will be. But at some point, it will be, just everybody together wondering who's going to work there. Because now people leave Croatia not because, not even because of pay, they leave because they will not live in a country like this. When you watch little other countries talk about health development, then you read a little bit about how some other countries do it, and then it says that there are three elements that are very important in the development of health. And I'm really not a general practitioner, so I have to say that I really wouldn't dare to interpret something from the basic activity portfolio, and there's a lot of doctors here, even though Google today is one of the big ways in which people get information, let's just say, let's say some easy appendage surgery would be a problem, but they say they're three elements. That the important element of the sector is concern because the population is getting older and this needs to be taken into account, that the medical technology industry is important and that pharmacies and biotechnical industries are important. Let's all wonder together what's been done here, where we are and where we'll be. In my discussions, I always try to be correct and always try to be clear and unequivocal. Health care is a big problem, not only this minister, but the minister before and you believe me will be the minister behind it. He's a big swallower and parts of the budget. We all know when we're going to get treatment, we'd like to be in order very quickly and we'd like to get the fastest possible and best possible service. And we can all recognize it when we're standing, so when someone orders us, or we wait, so we don't get it, or you get a favor in two months or three months. And it's not simple, but it seems to me, not only seems to me, but I'm absolutely sure, a much greater energy the minister should and should have invested in his sector, tried to do one share, every minister whether we call health or health must do one share so that the next one continues where this one left off. But not in a way that we spit on everyone who's ever been before rather than in a way that really counts. So Minister Kujundzic's much more energy, because here we are talking about Minister Kujundzic should really spend on his portfolio and that this portfolio is incomparably better than it is now than it is to come here and from this pay phone insults the parliamentary representatives because it is simply not a communication that is okay and is not the communication that should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166004	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Davor Vlaovic, will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166005	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. You've been heard here more than once that you're a good minister, on the other hand, that you're not a good minister because you've missed some shops. And I'm going to have you now on behalf of the HSS Club who also signed this request for your recall say why we signed it. Because we expect the health system to be sustainable, efficient and accessible. What are the indicators? And what creates the impression that you don't believe that it's so bad in the system that you have to be warned by over 2,000 nurses and technicians and you're surprised that they came to Mark's square. Well, there would have been a lot of citizens, patients, if they'd known about that protest because they publicly supported the protest. Because simply this system is not sustainable and is not equally available throughout the Republic of Croatia. Especially when it comes to primary health care, which should solve 80% of the problems in Croatian health care. You said go for better, ministers a year ago when we talked about you there were 886 teams 56 in Croatia unfulfilled, the team had no family medicine doctor, it was missing in Croatia 56. Today, 89. Is that better? Over 20 pediatricians are missing. Well, that's over 100,000 of our fellow citizens who don't know where to sign up, where to treat. And especially when it comes to rural areas, our villages that have no money and no public transportation to cities, to the doctor of family medicine. And how do they treat, who do they call? Why did you miss something to allow these citizens to have both a family doctor and a pediatrician and a logo because all of this is missing in rural areas? The problem is that health homes that were quality feathers when it came to primary health care, you destroyed that system. Well, the health director can't organize 100% of the system now up to 25% of the plant. It's impossible to do that and now most homes are doing it negatively. And he won't have the money to pay for new specializations and then how do you make up for those places that are missing family medicine doctors and other specialists on the ground? It's impossible. Obviously, you missed a better view here or the goal of what's already being said here is who has the money will be treated. He will go to Austria or go to Zagreb. But not all citizens have that possibility. And then my grandmother Mara Drežnika expects to have a doctor in Rešetars and not to have to look in Brod or in Novi Gradiška. That's what you missed out on. The lack of a doctor compared to the last year has been increased. Health homes invest in equipment, equip hospitals, pay specializations, and then you allow your laws to let that doctor cancel and directly arrange with you, get a license to work and open a private clinic in an office without the knowledge of the director of home health, the board of directors and not the mayor to whom you lean as the holder, founder of this home of health. It's just inadmissible. And when it comes to hospitals, I get the impression that those who do bad work are rewarded. Many times already, some who do bad work and who create losses have been rehabilitated while hospitals such as Slavonski Brod, Pozega, who do well tend to stay out of the way somehow. And it's not fair for the bad to be rewarded without not getting rid of the county hospital's issue of limitations because with such limits they can't do positive business, to do savings I don't know how much. And unfortunately, you know what my nurses told me here in the square? That they haven't gotten the new clothes they're working on in over 10 years. They manage and buy themselves, which costs 500 to 800 kuna. Is that how nurses should be saved? Minister, it's a shame and it takes these nurses to, to accept a request for salary increases and to provide material and technical conditions for them to work. And every honor to nurses, technical staff and doctors who, through their enthusiasm, keep that system from being completely collapsed. When it comes to waiting lists, unfortunately it's an extension. And the last time I mentioned it here, if you remember going to the CT brain, that I can see if I can understand you at all when you say it's OK, I failed to get in line because your waiting lists are 180 to 280 days, but now give me advice on what to tell the parents of a 7-year-old who has been waiting for a magnetic resonance for more than a year? What do you tell those parents why it's like that? Why does their child have to wait a year and have a problem and they have to look at it for a year and there's nowhere to make a magnetic resonance. Is my minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166006	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras when he stops taking pictures.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Vlaović, you said just before, almost incredible seems this statement released by his colleague Grmoj where we are suggested that we go to be treated outside if our system does not fit in Croatia. Although one of the greatest values of the Croatian health system is availability and should be both quality and timely. Unfortunately, since Minister Kujundzic's position for three years and quality and timeliness has shifted. As much as this is where the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister who went and left the minister alone, I marveled at them in his place and worried why the Prime Minister left me here alone and when he was, represented his programme there were 3.4 ministers, vice-presidents, etc. It's the same gesture that speaks for itself enough. And the CNS doesn't even have a comment on your work, nor did they report on behalf of the club. What do you think of that, Mr. Vlaovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166008	Mr. Vlaovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166009	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for your replica. It should once again be pointed out that the system is resting on the enthusiasm and self-sacrifice of doctors, nurses and other medical staff. Unfortunately, our fellow citizens want to be treated in Croatia, they do not have the money to go outside Croatia but are not enabled because here you have heard 89 doctors of family medicine missing, more than 20 pediatricians missing and over 4 thousand family doctors in the next 10 years have announced their retirement. The system will certainly not be maintained that way. We at HSS have proposed one solution to increase registration quotas to medical schools. I have not been able to say, Minister, have you done anything to increase registration quotas in medical schools, to allow young people to study medicine, to get rid of the University of Slavonski Brod, to enable education in their city that they do not have to travel to Osijek or Zagreb or Rijeka? Unfortunately, nothing has been solved, and I think you realize that it's not against you, but the system isn't working.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166010	Thank you very much. And another replica of the esteemed Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166011	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vlaović, you've had quite a dramatic debate, I don't know what it's like to be in the middle of where you come from, but I know what the situation is in the area of Varazdin County. And it's that never so much investment in health as it is now in the time of this government. For an emergency hospital and a day hospital, 15 years awaited, the competition was called, the value of 70 million kuna works. 83 million kuna hospitals in Varazdin, energy reconstruction, spin center within the Varazdin Spa hospital waited 10 years, the value of 107 million kuna works. 16 million kuna doctoring, 4 new ambulances. Mostly when everything is summed up in all parts of health institutions, we get 500 million kunas. Never as much investment as at the time of the current government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166012	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166013	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague, I congratulate you on these investments, but mostly these investments in buildings and equipment, and it is commendable, it should be, however, a problem, the system can't work if there's no man on which it all rests if there are no doctors and nurses, I've talked about it in Brod-Posavina County over 100 million kuna County invests in the energy reconstruction of medical buildings, but there are no doctors and nurses, although there are still in us in Brod, but there are no in Vrbje, there is no Cernik, there is no in Old Gradiška, there is no in Oprisavci, there are these problems. How are these citizens going to get these areas 30, 40 kilometers from Brod or from Nova Gradiška to a doctor? Because he's not in the infirmary, the infirmary is equipped, the money's invested, the money's in vain, the equipment and the buildings if there's no people, the doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166014	Thank you. My colleague Lenart picked up as much as I realized he'd want a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166015	Dear Vice President, here I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, as the minister treats fellow MPs as if they had held sheep together in Zagvozd. It argues that it is not understood in numbers, and I think that the numbers are very important in health care and since all trends are negative in health care, I also suggest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia propose a new law in which funeral societies would be renamed as health care finalists in order for the minister to eventually be a successful minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166016	Well, of course that wasn't exactly a request for this one for a break, but I'll, I'll have to grant you a break. I'd just like to warn you all together, we have another club and we have 30 and how many individual debates, in total count the following, no replicas, somewhere between 6 and 7 hours. So this one, just so we know, we know this one to focus. Thank you very much, and I'll see you, I don't have to sit there, so I'll see you at 21 and 10. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.10 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166018	... This is how you might end up saying we'll vote when the conditions are met, if you'll allow it. [[Specially enabled.]] Namely, if that's the case by procedure, I've prepared a debate on behalf of the club for 15 minutes, and I'm going to make it as short as possible. [[We can finish this very quickly. You say you won't give up your colleague Boric and we're much faster, we don't have to stay here until morning.]] I've listened carefully to all the debates so far, the replicas and the answers to the replicas. In fact, I wanted the initiator of this request for the recall of Minister Kujundzic, at least so I think it is Mrs Strenja, the chairman of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Parliament, to say that I do not see what has changed in this year since the first request for the recall of Minister Kujundzic. This is the first case, I think a minister is requested twice in a year. And just to remind you that we are in the first request, in fact, somewhere it was the 10th month of 2018 when the first question of trust was raised for Milan Kujundzic. In that request, at the very least, the Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia, respected Mr. Milan Kujundzic, was then claimed to have contributed to the growth of patients' mortality from malignancies and non-infectious diseases. I have not seen much difference in this new request and it seems to me that here is not really the essence of the problem of the health system, but it is either about impatience or personal revenge. I don't know any other motive. In the very proposal, as already stated in the debate, no figures were mentioned, and Mrs Strenja, a representative of Strenja, a colleague, the president of the Health Committee said in an opening speech that she was looking for, suggested a normal collegiate debate on behalf of patients and that patients were focused. Now I'm wondering, you know, when you read the government's statement and what the health minister is saying here, if the patients are focused, then this minister and this government have provided me with at least one billion and 400 million kunas of medicine, expensive drugs that are now available to all our patients. I'm not a doctor, but I think it was for that spinrass, immune therapy, etc., if the focus is patients, then that's it. Then these are the groups of patients who are actually most needed, of whom Croatian healthcare unlike other richer countries has provided such medicines. Would that be enough reason for us to personally and personally stop at the defense of professors, science doctor Milan Kujundzic as health minister? I'm not a doctor, so in that sense I'm a total layman, as a layman, but let's say I don't see a politician, I really don't see any reason for this motion to call off except or in the mind of a fellow doctor, I mean a colleague of the current health minister of some injured vanity or in revenge, I don't know why, I don't know that background, and it's not even important, but in any case it's not good for the health of this Parliament or this state either. Today I have listened, thank God, a lot of debates and insults and callings, we have talked about the need to adopt an ethical code in this House, I don't think we need an ethical code, we have enough Rules of Procedure, except we would need to break the practice of protecting parliamentary representatives or immunity when the public, the citizen who chooses us and we often call on us, asks for a lawsuit. What I must also admit is confusing, the chairman of the Health and Social Policy Committee has called up to now 76 regular sessions, regular sessions of 77th, has been postponed because you have withdrawn this item from the work agenda. I don't know the exact number of thematic sessions, so I'm thinking around 30, about 30, that's a hundred and a few sessions in three years. And how am I supposed to interpret it differently than whether it's vanity or revenge, I'm very specific. And that many MPs, because that practice, as soon as someone comes with the proposal, asks for signatures, we don't even look at what it is, it's important to buy signatures first and then write a request. In addition, I must say, even if it may be funny to you, I would not want to hurt either the chairman of the board or any of you, as I demand in relation to myself, but it seems to me that the chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy from the quota position has been appointed, from the quota position. I'd like you to check it out. If that's what I think it is, then I would ask the president to call off the board because he never put a problem or a problem in the health system at the board's meetings once during the the thematic session. Minister Kujundzic, I'm already a man of age, I need medical attention, of all the doctors here, I'd rather go to you and you can count on my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166019	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, he will now speak to a respected representative of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166020	Thank you. I won't answer you according to what my specialty is, but I can remind you, I'm not going to talk about that you may have forgotten. Thematic sessions were on the financial sustainability of the healthcare system, on the issue of nurses, on the doctor's departure, on emergency medical reform, on the public health system, because general talk about health care at the the thematic session is something that should take at least 24 hours. So, I called all the relevant experts, tried not to go right or left, to try to find solutions, and while we were positioning and opposition and sending conclusions to the relevant ministries. When it came to the matter of nurses, there were three ministries, both the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health. And they were quality conclusions, unfortunately nothing. I'm sorry that you don't remember because I think that healthcare is such a topic where we have to keep opening topics and with thematic sessions it can be looked at on the website, we covered the entire health system because I kept opening all the issues that concern me. So I wasn't born with the position of board president or I'm going to die with it, this is just one episode in my life, I've been and I've been a doctor, my place of work is waiting for me and I've been working in the system long enough to have somewhere to go back no matter how much I think, I'm a specialist and I work as a neurologist and my patients in KBC and the entire coastal-goran county know the good that are my values but that's not a question here. We don't want to, and I don't think we should question what one of us is when he stops here, he gave a doctor or a parliamentary representative because it needs to be a matter of interest to everyone. I'm sorry that you've been in another story, and I'm sorry that you're probably getting good health care in this position as a pensioner, but you should be representing all those pensioners who are very hard to live on even though they've got health care available not in Zagreb but in the back, so in a Knin hospital that's blocked, there aren't so many patients there but those old people who stayed there need to have a hospital and she can't be shut down after 150 years, that's what I'm talking about. As far as other topics are concerned, the National Anticancer Plan, listen to me, I've been in position, I've opened that topic, and I'm in opposition, so I've opened that topic because it's a topic that all of us have to hold together, and I think from last year to this year, that national plan should have been. It was supposed to be a national plan to preserve mental health because it's a problem, we have a problem with people who have problems and we have to tell them exactly, we have children who are systematically neglected, children with mental disabilities, we have children and a plan on child and adolescent psychiatry, and you were a very high-quality thematic session and unfortunately, that plan stands in drawers. At this point, no child with mental problems from Rijeka to Dubrovnik has a single bed. You have 500 psychiatrists for adults, only 40 for children. If we're thinking about the relationship between adults and children, it's a hundred. You have no idea how many children commit suicide in Croatia, less than 30. How many of those who try and survive, how close they are and go there, which is with those children who can't come to Zagreb in an institution that is, in a polyclinic where they can be helped but can't handle in other parts of Croatia, that's what I'm talking about, so it was necessary to bring the National Plan for Child and Adolescence Psychology. A national plan to fight dementia and Alzheimer's disease was to be adopted, according to Prof. Mimica ran that story. So, I'm sorry that given your discussion Bandic got what he wanted and that's why your club this, will be against impeachment, but the citizens will eventually judge it when the elections are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166021	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166022	Dear colleagues of Strenja, we see that there are no HNS coalition partners here to defend Minister Kujundzic, no Prime Minister who left him alone, and those who defended him, it would be better if they hadn't defended him from the Academy of Reiner, who told the citizens to go out and treat themselves if they didn't respond to the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166023	That's what I told you. I'm not a citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166024	We are, so you said that from the pay phone to everyone here...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166025	To you, personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166026	...in the assembly, we are the same citizens and that is a message to everyone who is dissatisfied with the health system. Don't distract me while I'm talking. And my colleague, I don't know, he's like he wasn't at the thematic sessions and the meetings of the committee you called. It is the most active committee in HS that has discussed almost all the problems in Croatian health, and there are many, he says it has not been talked about, and probably his only task is to come here on Fridays and raise your hand, so call Bandic in the morning and say boss Who we are today [[Intruder: Thank you]] who we're against today. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166027	The answer of the esteemed representative Varda, pardon my pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166028	So you know what? It is difficult to speak from the position, a colleague of Grmoja, when on the other hand you have such an unargumented attack which should only show that a colleague Bandic obviously arranged what he needed and therefore the club votes like this today. Even yesterday, we had a rather interesting situation, and even more so the day before yesterday, when Bandic said one thing, and in the evening the other and the coalition was shaking. So, the store worked, this is just a show now, he promised the minister that there would be a show, I wanted to talk about health care and I'll talk about it, in any position and anywhere I'll say what's good in the system because there are good things, what's not done I'll talk about it and I won't give up on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166029	Dear Representative Podolnjak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Strenja, we have just heard, in fact your committee would say, among the most active committees, if not the most active committee in HS by the number of sessions, regular sessions, but also thematic sessions, which means that as president of that committee, you have done the maximum to fulfil your duty in overseeing the work of the Government and in constructive contribution, improving the health system and this is said by a representative who comes from the ranks of the parliamentary majority, is that not the best argument when here, a colleague of Strenja talks about all problems in the system, and that she tried through HS, through this Health Committee to do everything possible, that this is the only way that we can actually speak and If we had a minister here... [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166031	The Honorable Representative of Srenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166032	...who must answer about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166033	So I'm just going to announce another dozen sessions before you change me, the sessions that you've supported to hold, and it's going to be the thematic session on the preservation of mental health, the thematic session on the health of the defendant, which is a special problem, I'm going to organise a film that my colleague Sedlar made to look at here in HS about the suicides of the defenders, we're going to talk again about child adolescent psychia, all of what we agreed and the joint consensus concluded which thematic sessions are important to hold, as I always have, and you've been present very many times, please tell me what you want to talk about, we'll talk about, we'll send clear messages. And I'm not talking about that whole story of social issues that we've opened in both family centres and foster care and all those segments that cover and social policy, which is the theme of this, which is the responsibility of this defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166034	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Varda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166035	I'm sorry you obviously didn't testify.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166036	Well, my dear Vice President, thank you. My colleague Strenja, I spoke on my own behalf and I don't know why you mention Mr. Milan Bandic in your reply, it's the party president, but it's not in HS, nor did I mention him, nor did Milan Bandic as party president need to jump to help or give me instructions on how to speak in this HS, it's a low blow. Secondly, when I was talking about thematic sessions, the result of zero, the number of sessions huge, the result of zero, and now allow me, neither I questioned your calling nor your knowledge, nor your experience, nor your defensive status. I spoke exclusively as a representative. Please. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166037	The answer of the esteemed Strenja counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166038	So, buddy, you've re-replaced the position of executive and legislative authority, even this union leader said what we did with the sisters, what? It is our job to open the topic, to sit at the table of the Ministers of their administrations and try to find a solution. I'm not the one who's going to go to the Ministry of Health and sign the hospital accreditation regulations, categorization hospitals, national plans, I can't, I can't just call from this position and so I'm warning because some things have to be done, it's just a matter of signing. The whole series of regulations that regulate the health system has not been passed, they've been written, they've been through public consultations, that's what I'm talking about, I can't go there and sign and let them become legal, that's what I'm talking about, I don't have executive authority, I only have what I've been given my electoral legitimacy I'm in a legislative body and I'm opening topics. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166039	We move on, we move on to an individual debate that has a large number, so we'll start with the first one, and that's the respected representative Josip Boris, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166040	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I want to say something here today on the subject of recalling the distinguished Minister Milan Kujundzic because they must know that this is a direct transfer, so they probably look at it, they need to know that we have come to this situation at all that Minister Kujundzic is sitting here again, and it's been less than a year since the last recall, I've already said it in his replica one, so we've had 14 governments so far, 11 ministers, but this is the first minister to be asked twice in a year by the officers who come in about 20 minutes. And these citizens need to see what we've been going through all summer as a policy, why the pressure on the Constitutional Court and the HS presidency and all parliamentary deputies has to hold an extraordinary session of HS to discuss the request of the Most and the opposition to vote for mistrust from the Minister of Health. Citizens have to see what the case is, here it stands on one A4 paper, on two sides, one and a half sides, five counts of the indictment, an indictment without any of these numbers, without any objection that would make sense, which would accuse you of something that you did wrong, but one descriptive piece of work that probably took place in some 20 minutes of inspiration by Mr. Grumoje and Bulja who, after a cup of coffee and started calling off some other ministers, realized that they might once again try to avenge Milan Kujundzic because he dared not, sued one of their members or presidents for slandering him or for having done something without it. Unfortunately, again today we've been here all afternoon, probably part of the night, we're going to have a debate on this paper A4 that says 5 counts descriptively without any argument to face who's a better or worse health minister than any 11 we've ever had and who's left what's left in someone else's inheritance. Unfortunately, listening to these words here today, this relationship between colleagues who are in medicine, who are still the top of some intellectualism in the Republic, who must at least appreciate each other so much. These words about criminals, thieves, oh, I don't know what other adjectives you've given to each other, to the cowards, or what I know to you all not to prove you're stronger or better than someone else, and we've already shown at one vote that 53 heroes who wanted to do so were not willing to even come in any number, so now it's going to be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow I don't know again 50 and going through days and discussing who did what. Do we live in a good country, listening to a picture of the state we have here, an opportunity to hear from the opposition all day long, simply wondering if you can live in such a country at all, can we expect several thousand patients in the health system of the Republic of Croatia when it is not good? I think we can and they'll be neatly everyone in their place where something needs to be, gave it a home of health, given it to a hospital, any department or any other operation, etc. To determine today as some have found that there are shortages of drugs, that there is nothing wrong, that the system is the worst ever, about what these words even between you fellow medics are, I am not in that space, but it is an ugly listener, which even citizens have to think after such discussions. So let's see what Mr. Grmo and Bulj have been accused of, Mr. Kujundzic, what did he want or didn't want to do? We have this indictment, I say at 5 points where two words are the most important "missed" and "not respected". So you missed, which in life can be missed, your colleague Grmoja missed power twice, whether someone was guilty of it, probably some kind of temperament or ignorance, no matter what, but what it suggests is "miss," which he missed out on, here's the charge, failed to strengthen the primary protection, as far as we can talk about it, probably 3 days safely, without any argument, numbers, anything, missed law enforcement, then they weren't given the whole law, but they were putting the keys, the ZZ Act, health care probably not, you weren't given the written, so I'm talking about the seriousness of the war that you've been warning the entire Croatian public for several months now, that they're watching it, so you haven't been given a full name of the law, and let alone think about what the minister wanted, you wanted to be able to create an unspeaky picture of something that someone who created as a healthy and someone who did something. What else did he miss? Reorganize or redesign the hospital system, rationalize the health system, financially stabilise the system, not reorganize HZO, establish dialogue with nurses. Can you imagine these accusations? That's terrible. And the system works, and the dialogue was me thinking. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166041	Please don't come from the bench, not from the bench, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166042	3,000 came and went, they probably got some extras that you were negotiating as president of the Health Committee, we heard 77 sessions, a lot of words went down there, of course you were responsible for everything, that the minister didn't do anything, that's always how it turned out, are the ones who know how to impose. And that's that indictment where they reported it to the public as 50 points they have, so you can't add up 50 words, sentences all over this watch, the whole article stops saying one piece of paper, this is what the Republic of Croatia was supposed to do all summer. ... With this. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Government? The government answered you on page 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166043	Please don't come from the bench, be a little bit more correct with others.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166044	and you must know that as a MOST according to the break-in you can no longer sell to the Croatian citizen the stories you've sold so far, you as MOST according to the break-in simply didn't understand your own role, if Mrs. Sneezing refused to be a minister, who was to blame, could be a minister and solve all these problems, but she didn't want to, it's easier, the board president, you travel, you talk, everyone listens to you, you don't answer to anyone, and you're always looking for someone to blame. Of course, the previous article was a bit more serious in the 26th point, but I'm saying it dropped only 50 hands. And now that we compare what we did a year ago and now, it turns out that the minister compared to these 26 points that were guilty and the current 5 that a lot was done, a lot of things, but they forgot what they had written before, they simply failed to remember, and when we see today what we have in the system does anyone even care about the figures spoken by the minister or prime minister, some one billion and 900 EU funds that are being negotiated, so another 312 million kuna or do I not know the story of island boaters or the story of the first robotic surgical system or I don't know a billion and 359 million to improve the cost of access to daily hospitals, etc., do you think the ministers are interested? Of course, they don't care, because we heard today from those who raised their hands as ministers that there was a crisis, that they didn't even know anything, and that when we put 8 billion debt that you had to solve it the second day, if not then you were incompetent, and for them there was a crisis and they were dealing with some other things, you simply had to understand them, they left what they could and today is going to be kind of sorry that everything today would solve for us in relation to the one who was a crisis, and for this situation they say is never worse in the Republic, never worse, imagine that logic, never worse situation, but what would make me with this worst situation, with the worst government only manage to do that we are ministers today, simply that man doesn't believe what I say today we are dealing with all day. We also heard those who mourn Yugoslavia and the system that was at the time, say everything was great. And now we have a situation that those who haven't done anything to us lower accusations to get us to the level at which they left the Republic of Croatia, you won't, gentlemen, there's this government a lot of good numbers, today the weather of such 100 good figures is required one that isn't worth writing about. Before the gentlemen ran the Republic of Croatia, there were 100 bad numbers, and one was asked for. It's good to talk about it and it had to be said that everyone [[Intruder: Thank you]] They see how that Republic of Croatia progressed then. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166045	We've got more replicas again, and we'll stay behind, and four hours later, I think, this is the first respected representative of Jelkovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166046	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you said that this indictment was brought down to five points without any argument, and that's so, but let's just remember all the requests for impeachment that we had in this term, so everyone was put together, all the demands, no arguments, no serious numbers, nothing, and we only discussed it because the opposition thinks it's a very convenient tool and that they keep calling and replacing ministers, so that's a very convenient tool for it. No one here is saying that everything is ideal in the system, so I'm the minister is aware of all the problems he has, but those problems haven't arisen since yesterday, they've been piled up for years, but so none of the colleagues here I've heard that they said that the minister did something wrong and that's why he's responsible, but they're talking about things that still need to be solved and improved, but these things can't be solved overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166047	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166048	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac, I told you, this is the case of Mr. Grumoja and Bulja, A4 paper on two sides of which the Republic of Croatia should discuss all summer, and we have to show you all night long if it is necessary, to see the seriousness of this MOST towards the fact that they are offering for the future of the Republic of Croatia and in what way they should perceive and the issues of health and how they would solve it, you simply can't believe that while they were drinking coffee down there and remember now it would be time for us to get involved, especially the one who reported us to our president, because he was defamed by the court to take him off his license, if I think it's that it's why the ministers are going to ask you two questions. There'll probably be a third. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166049	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166050	Dear fellow Boric, you've said well, it's ugly to hear this today and today, listening to this countless times I've thought of that saying if I can't beat you, if I can't get close to you, it'll try to blacken you out, demean your work, and that's exactly what's going on here. Of the 30 people who signed this, look at how many of them were in the assembly, 10 minutes ago there wasn't even one. So if this government didn't get a result that's so visible, if nothing else about building a KBC in Rijeka, Pula, with 2 billion and 200 million kunas invested in health care in the past 2 years, with the construction of the Peljega Bridge, everything that's being built, and that's not mentioned, and no one has the courage to point the finger and say that this government has won and done it, it's already trying to blacken out, populistly offend all the living things that are done. And then this is real today. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Ugly and gruesome listen. [[Intruder: Answer...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166051	...the esteemed representative of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166052	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, look, this article on one paper A4, it's so ugly with this set of words that they used today to attack the minister and yet Mrs Ines Strenja is urging us from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County to vote for the impeachment of the minister who started building the hospital we've been waiting for 30 years. ... Well, but I think I saw you there, that you were [[You can't hear the intruder.]] to paint there. [[Please, let's not get off the bench, please.]] But now who's started I think it's for this minister's office, if not, if he's lying to a goat he doesn't lie to a horn at least. ... Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I would ask you not to talk us into it, we will support our minister as well as his associates who allow at last in the city of Rijeka within the KBC to do what they all wanted, regardless of what you do not want Mrs. [[Intruder Reiner: Please don't from the bench.]] Shots fired. And I don't know what you need in your political career to be against what's being built in the city of Rijeka without mentioning Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166053	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166054	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, you have called the motion to launch the recall of Minister Kujundzic's office, which is obvious because all five MPs are ready here today tonight as long as it has signed to defend it. There's one page of all of them five out of 32 that's signed by the defense, and that's enough talking about the full seriousness of that operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166055	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166056	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Uncle, I don't know if you've seen this, I say A4 on page 1.5 that we should discuss this for half a year, half a year about Bulja and Grmoje's thoughts with some coffee while you were drinking coffee. You weren't allowed to write a full bill but you wrote the abbreviations, so much about the seriousness of you who think tomorrow... that you can run this country as a serious institution, as a state. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Please don't come from the bench.]] Gentlemen, you have suffered many times in the vote as you will on Friday. You can't replace anyone... You can't replace anyone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not you with your own vote. [[Intruder Reiner: My colleague Grmo, come on, don't come out of the bench at last.]] And you are simply wasting your time because about you all Mr. Grmoja speaks of this article on one page A4 as a basis for replacing one better minister than many who have been there so far, which he has made for Croatian healthcare much more than you want to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166057	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166058	Thank you. Dear fellow Boric, you are actually taking offense over the fact that some doctors who are representatives of the Parliament talk so badly about Croatian health and even worse than the successes of their colleagues. If they'd just gone a little too far and seen how much world medicine really admires these colleagues, here's our colleague Kirin and actually the hands that were taken away, which happened to a locksmith and was actually saved by a professor. Kujundzic, who worked one heavy, heavy pelvic implant, separation of Siamese twins and Prof. A grizzly and a few dozen doctors working on it. So things that are admired by world medicine and about which medical journals are written, and here colleagues mock it in the worst possible way. Too bad they're part of that system, if anything else could be solid with them and actually saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166059	So when you finally stop throwing from the bench, you're really rude, literally rude, it's a question of home culture. You keep throwing speakers out of the bench. ... Come on, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166060	And it's actually talking about what patients in the Republic of Croatia know and it's good health, it's good health care, good doctors and practice that is best approached to the patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166061	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166062	Comrade Babic, you can see for yourself that Mr. Grumoja was distracted when he saw the work he had even played in the procedure of the Assembly, he simply cannot believe that he was able to write this along with Bul on the subject of Minister Kujundzic's shift. But what we were going to say today through this debate, gentlemen of Croatia is not the black chronicle you describe every day to find some dissatisfaction on our side and try to cheat and some fake pictures tomorrow to play in the election of some kind of game. This is a serious country that has its own problems, of course, which are trying to solve because they are either inherited or formed but solved. And this story today and only the Prime Minister's report is a clear indication that this Croatia is going in a better direction than the one we inherited and that no criticism at the level of such articles simply means that citizens who understand, and even the health system of the Republic of Croatia can't turn anyone aside I tell the Grumoje who simply can't take any more of his work that he's been building for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166063	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branka Juričev Martinchev, please. And I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter, he'll speak before you, the esteemed representative of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166064	I thank my colleague, Boric, this debate will not be enough for you not to be a member of the deputy assembly as well. So what you can't read because it wasn't necessary except to systematically count five sectors within which there were no significant shifts, I didn't say there was nothing. So, but what's e.g. In the government's explanation, the government itself doesn't admit that she didn't do anything. So in 1.1, the Law that we've been waiting for for for 10 years that started writing since 2016, and then it stopped, practically for 10 years, but for a few months at least half a year it was in the process, so it could have been prepared. What is important, we until today, the minister himself acknowledges the importance of accreditation of hospital institutions, without which we cannot really do many things in the system and then, here for 10 months, it was not enough to adopt a Regulation on accreditation standards for hospital health institutions, a rule on the way, conditions and procedure of granting accreditation to healthcare professionals and a Regulation on criteria for the recognition of international accreditation. So, it was supposed to be over before the law itself, the law matured for a certain time, it came into effect 1.1., and then on the other hand when we talk, it's this loan, this categorization of hospital institutions will all be completed, but after the adoption of the Regulation on the implementation of the categorization procedure of hospitals, and then according to what he said we should really see who's doing who's doing it, who doesn't do it, I felt it most on my back because I really had 8,000 reviews in relation to some colleagues who had what I know 300-think and I was wrong that I couldn't get a lot more benefit because of what I do than others, but here it was promised 1.1. So, let's go back because I have a few times to talk about primary health care. So, we had a long maturity of the Health Protection Act, after 10 years, but it's superficial and incomplete and still missing rules that were also prescribed to be passed by this law. Therefore, health care professionals in primary health care are faced with a new model of health care and private practice instead of current concessions. The responsibility for making a decision on the amount of health care employees under the new law is expected from the county parliaments. The congregations made decisions in a significantly different amount of leases, which exposed healthcare professionals to discrimination since they all agreed on equal conditions for providing health care. You know what that means, 300 percent of the rent is different, I think it's a failure. I think it's the ministry's failure because it can't be that in my county there's 125 kuna in one of the Slavonian counties in Osijek, and there's EUR 1,000 in Dubrovnik, and there's no doctor. It can't be that there are 6,000 kunas in this one in Karlovac County. So for all of this, I think the minister has failed to carry out administrative oversight of those who have not done so. So the obstruction of law enforcement takes place today, 10 months from the entry into force of this law. In particular, I am now sorry that there is no Varge, Zagreb, the City of Zagreb is the biggest problem. So he still hasn't made a decision on the number of offices and the amount of leases. More counties have made decisions contrary to the law or financial decommitment, which is why individuals and associations have sent to the ministry more requirements for administrative oversight, the ministry has not been shown to do so. So, at the end of two years as long as the Health Protection Act provides for a deadline for moving from concession to private contract offices or back to the home of health, how many offices are we now expecting to still have a doctor. We are already in a situation that lacks 200 family doctors, that 89 offices without carriers and that we expect 600 of them to retire in 5 years. It won't be enough to make up for that much specialization for the doctor. That's what I'm talking about. A similar situation in gynecology, similar in pediatrics. So, I think the law has failed in the right way to regulate the situation within primary health care. Do you know that three pediatricians are going to Zadar? Here's what I'm thinking, three pediatricians full of offices, where those kids, because they're not there, are not on the market. Where are those kids going? So, the doctor's gone, the nurse's gone. The state has failed to adopt measures to stay in this system, and you can't be in the county. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166065	We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166066	Thank you. My dear colleague Strenja, I didn't know you had such a bad opinion about the deputy representative, Mrs. Cikotic, I hope you won't drive her out of the club, since you resent me for being the deputy representative, you told me today, yes. Do you mind if Mrs. Chikotic is a deputy representative, no, she's from MOST, so she can. I hope so, I thought you were in better relations with her, but obviously you resent her, since you're so very important. We'll see, there'll be more choices. As far as your observations are concerned, we've heard what you know is bad. What have you solved? You have something that you listed as the chairman of the Health Committee? No one's been solved, no one's been helped, so that's how it turns out to me. Or you'll tell me now what you've solved, I'll be happy if it's like that or all that the minister has to do. Then what are you on this committee for? Then you don't need it. And the third thing about helicopters, I could do a lot, you could attack a lot, try a lot. We're some pilots of our MORH helicopters and how they're doing their homework. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166067	The Honorable Representative of Srenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166068	Well, I'm confused that you don't know what the role of the assembly is and what the executive powers are. It's mine to open and indicate and try to help come up with some kind of solution, but on the other hand, I haven't been able to get a positive answer to everything that we've held together at the sessions, really, because they were relevant experts who pointed out that there were some problems. What do you think there's no problem with public health? They said that for the first time since the assembly was called the thematic session and talked, and they were constantly somewhere in the corner on the side. You know where there was movement, in foster care, because Minister Murganić was really receptive, listening and talking to everyone to pass the best boredom law in foster care and implementing everything they asked of her those who were missing in the system and so on, the Law on psychotherapists, etc. Unfortunately, as far as health care is concerned, everything we suggested didn't come out. and brought no results. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166069	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166070	Mrs. Strenja, calling the minister for something he missed you call the government. As a member of the Bush of the County Assembly, look, I'm begging you not to interrupt me. Mrs. Strenja as a member of the county assembly from my county, let's at least admit once that all capital projects that were done right in your county were done during the HDZ governments and during this government. From the Rijeka bypass, highway Zagreb – Rijeka, terminal on Brajdica, St. Kuzam knot, road to Krk, everything that is capitalized, and this Rijeka hospital KBC on Sušak is now being built during the HDZ government. And when you say that your role is to point out, help on, is this help to call and to change the minister, sign here and in a way to criticize something [[Intruder: Thank you]] For which there is no man [[Intruder: Thank you]] A magic wand at 2.g. change something that isn't right in 50 years. [[Employer: Dear Representative of the Sneezings]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166071	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166072	Thank you. So, despite what you've done as HDZ, it hasn't helped you and you've never managed to win power in that county, I'm also wondering why? So, I can say that you did, so this is how the Rijeka hospital decision to build a Rijeka hospital was made by Milanovic's government, but it did not make a decision on multi-annual borrowing. After that, Oreshkovic's government had to run in any way to get rid of it, to start digging a pit that was dug for a year to secure 12 million kunas for digging the pit where the building of the hospital was going and after that while MOST was still in the government, we managed to enter three years of projections of the construction of that hospital. Of course, and you will continue, but I think that HDZ after this term, after it is no longer in power, I hope that the SDP or whoever is the Living Wall will continue to build that hospital So, [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Everyone's got their own stock that needs to be fair. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] to do And that's what I expect from every government. [[Intruder: We heard thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166073	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Don't be so pessimistic, maybe you'll be in power. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja, about the pardon, respected representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166074	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, so here is what Minister Kujundzic, the ministry and this government did not do, and what they did should be said. Namely, I come from Sibenik-Knin County and it is my duty to tell me what was done in our county. Sibenik General Hospital is 150 years old, what was invested during this government, this ministry and this minister were not made since its construction 150 years ago. Namely, the project of energy renovation of the building was completed in December of last year worth 51 million kuna + VAT, completely renovated facades, roofs and new lighting, energy costs before the renovation were 4.4 million kuna, will now be 2.1 million kuna, 13% of energy will be produced from renewable sources, heat insulation has been completed fully, replaced by external carpentry, reconstructed boiler room etc. At the end is the arrangement of a daily hospital, which together with the acquisition of a magnetic resonance is a project worth 46 million kuna for which it will not single out any kunas, nor the Sibenik hospital, nor the budget of the Sibenik-Knin County, 80% of the project's value comes from European funds, up to 15% provided by the ministry. Only by obtaining a magnetic resonance device here I am a witness through several mandates and especially by the SDP government, we invested my colleague Kulusic and I in the amendment for the purchase of this device, now we can proudly say that we have one of the most modern devices in the Republic of Croatia worth 8 million kuna, that residents of Sibenik-Knin County will no longer have to wait for this review and be on the waiting list in Zadar, neither in KBC Split or in private pay or in private clinics, now this review will be able to work in what I said to one of the most modern devices right in our city, in Sibenik. I think it's very hypocritical when we listen to our colleagues, colleagues talking about the separation for health insurance, it's always a lot and expensive, and when we ask for the best and the most expensive. Surely, for all that is good, you need to provide far more resources. It is this government, this ministry and this minister that has made a double amount of funds for particularly expensive medicines now worth 1.4 billion kuna, which is 1% of the state budget. It should not be forgotten that health costs are on average up to 10% year-on-year and that until we secure a larger flow of funds, we will not achieve financial stability when it comes to health care. If it wasn't for all the investment in health infrastructure and others, I should say, for example, I took the situation at Sibenik General Hospital, so we can see that staff expenditure in the first half of this year compared to the first half of last year increased more than 4 million kunas, regresses, goddesses are paid, a collective contract is respected, as I said very much is set aside for particularly expensive medicines and that part is fully secured by the ministry. Here is the occasion in this brief presentation I would like to thank the Minister, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who first invested so much funds in Sibenik General Hospital after 150 years. Ever since the hospital was built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166075	Thank you. We've got a few replicas again, the Honorable Counselor Ljubica Lukačić is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned particularly expensive medicines in your presentation. I think it's important to point out that this government and this minister have made it possible for one medicine that everyone knows about, and that's a spinraze that costs about 150 million kuna on an annual basis, spinraza will make it possible for all people with spinal muscle atrophy to get a spinraza, and see if it will be used in their treatment, it's a big step forward and not only hope for those young children who are on the respirator, but also for adults with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166077	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166078	Thank you very much. The truth of my colleague Lukačić, as I said, has doubled the amount of funds for particularly expensive medicines. We know that today on the market today, we have new, better-quality drugs but they are far more expensive than those we had in our earlier years. That is why they say that health costs are rising on average 10% annually. Both this ministry and the government of the Republic of Croatia as very socially sensitive has an understanding and effort to enable all of our patients, especially if it is about children to provide these medicines that can improve the best results.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166079	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166080	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I'm glad you looked back on those positive things made by the minister and the ministry. I also thank the Minister for recognising the need of the inhabitants of Brod-Posavina County for the equal availability of health services and for the separation of the General Hospital and Slavonski Brod and Nova Gradiška which are famously mastered by the plan. Right now in our fund-raiser hospital, over 50 million kunas were used. The ministry gives support to the personnel structure, paying HZZO is under 200 days, it's only one part of the positive things that happened in our general hospital. And I'll just point out that before the master's plan the debt was 30 million kuna and getting out of the master's plan that debt was 105 million, so multiple exceeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166081	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166082	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members of Maximchuk, it is good for our citizens to hear what has been done in my Sibenik-Knin County and in your county, but not only to invest in hospitals, in buildings, in building daily hospitals or in getting devices, but also to invest in the specialized training of Dr. Medicine. So, for example. 60 contracts were signed with 39 health homes and 21 emergency medical services to allow 212 specializations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166083	The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166084	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to point out that this is beautifully seen on the health ministry's pages that in June 2017, a suspended suspension of 2 billion kunas from eu funds intended for health care precisely as it threatened 2015 and because the ministry met ex ante conditions and thus withdrew significant funds. In Zadar, for example. We can boast that it is precisely from these means that there has also been a project of daily hospitals where more than 47 million kuna is invested with equipment and we must note that before this government that the county itself, the city and entrepreneurs were buying a magnetic resonance and now it is made possible through the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166085	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166086	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Peric, indeed happy to have both in Zadar County and we have heard of many others, almost all of the county's considerable funds have been invested in new equipment as well as in other projects. We have for the first time in the Republic of Croatia a robotic surgical system which must be a very important national medical robotics center.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166087	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166088	Dear Vice President, I am sorry that there is no fellow Boric, he is very dissatisfied that we have not listed all 52 points for the first time, although I am not the author of the war, but our advice for healthcare where doctors from all over Croatia are. He is very sorry because if we had written 10 pages and not 1 page, he would surely have voted in favour of the recall of Minister Kujundic. If we had explained this more extensively, the man would surely have made arguments, he would not have listened to what Andrej Plenkovic and the party leadership say but listened to arguments and common sense. He was always a man who held up arguments and to common sense, he was never a remote, he was never a party chip. So I'm sorry he's not here because perhaps after this debate, he would change his mind and vote for Minister Kujundzic's recall on Friday. As for the colleague of this thing you brought out around the Sibenik hospital. People are sending me messages now that senior doctors, unionalists who have had certain complaints about working at the hospital themselves, are moving to the Knin hospital to get them pushed, that so much of the party pressure in the Sibenik hospital. Here's what I got. So there are different views on the state of things in the Croatian health system but the support we receive from citizens during this debate shows what they think of this health system. And no, they won't go from Croatia as academic Rainer wished them, they won't go from Croatia, we'll go from Croatia. But, Madam Vice President, honor the Rules of Procedure, if you have something to say, say after my presentation, do not intervene while I speak, I would ask you. [[Intruder Reiner: Repeat you falses just continue, I told you so.]] So, Croatia's citizens will not go to you, but the health system here will be what it should be. And it's not true that when you criticize someone, when you're warned about what's wrong, it's something negative. No, it's an opportunity to fix something. The Minister is certain that his recall will not take place. Most of it exists, this impeachment will be dismissed on Friday. We have therefore consciously entered into a political defeat in order to discuss the state of the health system here in the Croatian Parliament. So this is an opportunity for the minister, instead of taking this kindly to listen to what's going to happen here and trying to change some of it, why would he take it as something negative? I didn't say a single bad word about Minister Kujundzic, as a man, as a doctor, I was talking about things in the health system. I didn't insult him, I didn't use him as some colleagues I don't know the words knight, I didn't say anything bad about a minister. I was talking about bad things in the system. And this is the opportunity for Minister Kujundzic to hear that and that some things, here is another year of mandate if there are no early elections to fix and change these things. Why do you think every criticism is something that's negative? Well, it's a chance to fix things. So we won't, if we praise you, then you won't do anything, you won't change anything. So it's criticism, and especially if it's a concrete criticism, with concrete problems, then it's an opportunity to solve the problem. It's all in your hands. So a colleague of Strenja can convene board meetings but nothing can change, she can open certain questions but there are no, in your hands are scissors and skirts. In the hands of you and this government, Prime Minister of Finance and others. So why do you take every criticism as something negative? Why do you take the opposition's proposal as something negative? I think it's in all of us's interest, I never said any of you colleagues wanted the health system to be bad. I am sure that counterpart Celic wants the health system to be good, that the state of health in the town of Metkovic, in the House of Health Metkovic, is good. So why would a man want him to be bad? I never said that, nor would it cross over my mouth here in the Croatian Parliament ever. Nor do I think that academic Reiner as a doctor certainly wants the state of the health system to be well and for Croatian citizens to be satisfied. I'm sure he doesn't want anything bad. I've been referring to a clumsy statement but I'm sure there was no malice in it, I'm sure of it. So don't take everyone's criticism as if it's spreading some kind of defetism. No, I would never invite citizens to leave this country. In this country should remain, for this country to be fought, this country should be improved, this country should be improved. And I disagree with those who say it was better in the former regime. This is a free Croatia where each of us, so here we can say our free opinion, our opinion, we can express our position, we can criticise it, it couldn't be done in the former state. So, with those who claim to be so, I don't agree. And so be a little more open to criticism, criticism serves to fix things, and I'm convinced it's a lot, meaning as much as it was an insult to us, so here's my colleague, Boris, used this piece of work, me and my colleague Bulj, didn't deal with health care that he was the author of that war as Boric said, then the man would be here today, much more important to him to try to stop this waste that Vrgorec is trying to bring him. We have people who do health care, who work in health care and who know something about it. But I'm from the position and everything I've been saying, I've been speaking from the position of citizens, patients, doctors who text me, so I didn't want to blacken out and show it in some kind of negative light. Well, I think the minister would be happy if the state of the health system were well, if there were more things to boast about. So no one here is malicious, but we also considered why impeachment is what it is. So we didn't write the minister did it on purpose, but the minister failed to do what we think should be done. So he didn't do what the minister was supposed to do, and that's why we demanded a recall. And it would be good to discuss more in this Croatian Parliament all the problems in Croatian society than justice, health care, means public administration and beyond. What's wrong with that? So says counterpart Boris, we've been terrorized all summer. What did we terrorize? Is there a debate? What's wrong with the debate? What happened? Will the Minister fall off his head for being here all day? He lost one day, maybe he lost it, and maybe he didn't lose it, if he heard about the problems, maybe he got some ideas on how to solve certain things, not even lost a day. So let's learn a little about parliamentary democracy, which is the duty of the opposition, which is the task of ruling and let's be a little more open to criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166089	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166090	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grumoya, you brought out here that some older doctor had to go and travel to Knin because of his political commitment. It's a lie. In the last 5, 6 years since, here I have now contacted the principal, I am the chairman of the board of directors, as far as I know, based on a functional integration contract doctors can sign a contract and travel to Knin if they want and are particularly paid, if they don't want them to. The only possibility is that a retired doctor goes and works in Knin, but that's his free will again. So these are the truths that a Sibenik hospital, a principal, a board of directors, or something like that because of his political commitment, I don't know whether he sent it or not to travel to Knin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166091	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166092	Dear colleagues and what did you think the principal would say was true? So they'll confirm it to you? ... I won't speak, I won't say names and last names because I don't want to in any way endanger these people who have spoken to me but we all know how things work from the state administration to the meaning of the health system where it's still very important who is what political commitment, who is critical of those who are in power. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So here you yourself have admitted that you are here as a political person appointed so no one from another political party is appointed, but you from HDZ are appointed. Let's not follow each other, so let's not be silly, so let's not be silly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166093	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Robert Podlonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In this multi-hour debate we had the opportunity to hear a large number of arguments about the state of the health system and that's what we required the public to hear. And we are convinced that the court of the public will be for the arguments that we have made, which speak of all weaknesses and failures in that health system, which is in charge of the resolution minister. But the fact is, if you look at the minister here, left alone in the wind to defend himself, there's no Prime Minister either. You see for yourself that in fact none of your coalition partners want to support your minister, look, there is no one. That way, we're here but where your coalition partners are, there's no one. No one wants to support the minister, not even by exposure on behalf of the club, they're actually being fenced in that way. Then they may have to vote as some chips or so when someone comes in on Friday, for the sake of the government, for the sake of peace in the house, but look, there is no real support, there is no moral support expected from a single government that has a joint programme and stands behind the work of each single minister. But what makes me particularly sad, which wasn't really a debate, which is the fact that you've delayed this debate as much as you could even strain in your interpretation of constitutional deadlines. You could have had this debate in the summer, in the course of one day, we asked 22.7. we had an extraordinary session, because they were appointed new ministers, so beyond that July 15th deadline, we could hold a session, we could have discussed this much earlier. We could have discussed this as soon as we arrived for the September 18th session, but look, you waited with this debate until the end of that 30-day period that you said yourself began on September 18th. This means that you yourself have avoided this debate until the deadline you said began on September 18th. I'm saying, you said it's September 18th, for me it's that constitutional deadline of 30 days and I'm deeply saddened that even the Constitutional Court has failed to say that it's that deadline that has to be respected by the ruling majority. And that's why there hasn't been this debate in three months. And this Croatian Parliament is not in a position to do executive work, but it is in a supervisory capacity. And it is one of the fundamental functions that the Croatian Parliament in the parliamentary system has to oversee the government and the work of each single minister. One important instrument of the surveillance is both the debate and the vote of confidence of one of the ministers. This is a fundamental function and you have no reason to call the chairman of the Health Committee that she should have done certain tasks belonging to the Executive Authority and belonging to the Minister. But we're doing that job that is... The Croatian Parliament and which we wanted to work for and at a time when the formal Assembly did not meet in summer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But look at one example coming from another country when one prime minister suspended parliament's work so parliament couldn't monitor it, so he couldn't be bothered to leave it alone, so he temporarily sent representatives on vacation. But in that country of rule of law that doesn't even have a constitution as a written document there was a supreme court who said you couldn't do it to Mr. Prime Minister, you can't do it. Parliament must work to oversee the government's work, it is its fundamental function. That's why parliament exists. And the government is responsible for this parliament. And in order to be responsible to him, parliament must be held in session. This happened in a country in the United Kingdom just this summer when we were unable to discuss exactly the post of oversight of the work of the minister. But it only shows you how in one country the parliamentary democracy system still works. And when you have a prime minister who doesn't want to discuss his work and the government's work, there's this Supreme Court that tells him you can't do it. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court did not do so with us, unfortunately. And he allowed you to delay this debate for three months now until mid-October and to still vote on October 18th the last day when you are on the deadline, which starts with you from 18.10. when this Parliament began to meet, when it actually had its first day and established the agenda that the constitutional deadline of 30 days began. Well, if you were really so convinced, so convinced of the regularity of the minister's work, you wouldn't wait so long to say all the good things you want to say about the work of the minister and the work of the government. Why wait until the last day? No, you'd like to brag as soon as possible. It's just that to the extreme possible time limit that you delayed this debate actually shows that you wanted to avoid it. After all, we are now discussing at a time when a little part of the public is watching and listening to this debate. But it's a fact that you always do it in continuity, but we're still convinced, all of what we're saying is not in vain. We talked about the role of MPs who have the duty of overseeing the work of the government and each individual minister. And we are convinced that these are not in vain words that go into the wind and the function of Parliament is to say exactly that. And all of what we've been saying and a series of these arguments that my colleague Strenja said on behalf of the promoter and other MPs will certainly have an echo in public. And you, no matter how much you defend each of the Minister's moves as a whole, you won't be able to prove that the system as it exists today is sustainable, efficient, quality and that such a system can survive in the long run. It actually sinks daily and we see it in every single segment of that system, and the best they talk about in that system are doctors and nurses and other medical staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166095	Thank you, and for your exposure, we have replicas, she is the real respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166096	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, how justified is the Minister's appeal for impeachment speaking this debate of yours. You have not made a single argument in the course of your entire debate, nor the reason why you are in at all, among those who have signed a motion for a non-confidential vote. We have listened here throughout your presentation to the theory of deadlines as you see it, although you know very well that this debate is being held within those deadlines that are in accordance with the Constitution and the law and that constitutional experts have said that. So it's not an interpretation of HDZ and that we're doing it because we think we're doing it now. So here I really don't know if you had anything else to say in your debate except your theory of deadlines when this debate was supposed to take place. or you really don't have any serious arguments. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166097	The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166098	I told respected colleagues that many arguments were made on behalf of the promoter and by my colleague Strenje, who is the chairman of the Health Committee and other representatives and I had no need to repeat those arguments, no need, the public heard it. But from my point of view, personally as a professor of constitutional law, I had a need to say those arguments that were not even made today in this debate, which are very important. Believe me, as a professor of constitutional law, are extremely important constitutional arguments in terms of overseeing the government's work. And I can't just walk over the breach of the Constitution, that the debate on trust didn't take place within 30 days, if the Constitution says that the debate and decision-making must take place within 30 days. Let me just say that as a professor of constitutional law, I can't accept it that way and that's not my mere theory, that's not my mere theory. And other professors, the vast majority said the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166099	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, be assured that our citizens are watching this debate because here at least every little message comes to me, so I'm sure they're watching. What you said today, as my colleague Jelkovac said earlier, does not surprise me, it seems to me that you could have said something other than constitutional deadlines, even though you said it was particularly touching you, I may understand it. There's no reason for us to delay this debate and we haven't done it, and already today with what we've said, we've said a lot more arguments for the minister than you do against. Well, the fact that you said that there's very little of us here to defend him, there's not a lot more of you talking against him. Therefore, if we went to count who said the argument, we would surely be ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166101	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder. Okay, thank you. We are going to the next individual debate of the respected representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues of health care today are terribly expensive and there is no minister who can respond in such challenging times with increasingly expensive medicines intended for personalized medicine in the way you propose. In fact, I didn't hear any alternative that you suggested except that in one populist way you wanted the public to look for Pedro and now for certain problems it's the health minister's fault and the current health minister when all the problems go away will be solved. Health care is made of buildings, health care is made of devices and what many times today prominent health care is done by people. The basic pillar of Croatian healthcare is nurses and doctors. During the time of Minister Milan Kujundzic, no application addressed to the Ministry of Health has been made regarding the employment of nurses and doctors, as far as I know, no application has been denied. During this year, only through the European Social Fund 212 specialists, no specialisation requested by state-owned health institutions, owned by the county, has been denied. If we combine health expenditures per capita who are on average almost 4 times the average compared to other European countries, if we go to hospitals owned by countries in neighbouring countries, then we will see that Croatian health care is very good and all these arguments that have been made today that the situation is catastrophic, it absolutely does not stand. There is a problem with people outside the big cities in Germany. Local self-government units are looking for different ways, offering different benefits for doctors who call from county hospitals to come work in family medicine offices across Germany, across Austria, so nothing new, with us never being Germany and we don't need to lie to people. As for the device, only last year 10 magnetic resonances, 5 CTs, 2 aspects, 6 angionographers, 2 linear accelerants of people working in hospitals are educated in these hospitals whose equipment is constantly being updated and without it they would not have highly specialized experts. Let us remember the world success of Croatian medicine, which is the separation of Siamese twins where 14 doctors after a 15-hour surgery made the success of world proportions. Doctors in Klaic rescued a baby born in the 27th week of pregnancy that weighed only 450 grams, in the KBC of St. The spirit-bred cartilage removed from the nose, transplanted in the knee, in the KBC River the physician penguinally takes out procedures on the heart to solve congenital anomalies. At the General Hospital of Karlovac oncology team performed an ovaries operation using the so-called ovaries. Blue light, resuscitation of pelvic artery aneurysm endovascularly KBC Rebro my friend Drazen Perkov. It is your Croatian medicine and it is medicine in 2019 that is done with the help of this health administration and this Minister of Health. Welcome to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166103	We have multiple replicas again. First respected representative of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166104	Dear colleague Celic, I am pleased that you have said this whole series of top-of-the-line successes of our colleagues because I know it and I need to talk about it. This is what Croatian medicine is recognized for from transplants to such individuals. A colleague who's been doing it in Rijeka for ten years and closes... my friend Chache, that I mention someone's name that does it, my war colleague with me has been in the 9th Guard, so we're top doctors. So I ask you, is it not justified that we ask the ministry to take concrete measures for the stay of healthcare professionals and doctors and nurses while they are being paid, but as a reason for their departure, they are not exactly in the most small part of the pay but in working conditions, relationships, the possibility of progressing that this is not political progress, that you depend on which party is in power. So many of these things are more important. So you had to do something to stay doctors and nurses in our system, improve their status. That's why we fight...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166105	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166106	Dear Strenja, I wish you'd kept that intonation under wraps all day. I absolutely agree with you that you should do everything possible to make the outflow of Croatian doctors and nurses as small as possible. He will be. At the Hospital of Psychology, Vrapce went two doctors of 60, of course, that the situation is better in Zagreb than in certain units of local self-government, but trust me with everything that the health minister has done in these three years, believe me that the result is that the medical staff drain is less. We wish everyone was smaller and the minister accused him of being a unionist when he stood up for bigger salaries, but we need to see and we need to realistically look at the situation where we are all in whatever we are subjective as doctors when we talk about health issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166107	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166108	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you said that health care is made up of buildings, equipment, people, and that is why the Brod Hospital was and will remain a European hospital, because of people who have been committed to being a European hospital for 121 years. During the Homeland War it was the largest war hospital, and now with the help of the ministry that provides support both in human resources and in other needs, it was approved by the basis of the last competition 15 specializations, which in many ways helps the survival and remnant of our young doctors right in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166109	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166110	Dear colleague Maximchuk. I agree, I'll go back to the clinic where I work. So during this ministry, with the help of SAFOA, the largest investment project has been completed through European funds in Croatian health, the Institute of Forensic Psychology. So the standard that is constantly being corrected in all hospitals, and so is General Hospital Dr. Josip Benđević Slavonski Brod is part of the efforts of the Ministry of Health and the current health administration. And sometimes it seems to me that in Croatia there is a lack of a culture of gratitude, I do not expect from the opposition to praise and to bring panegirics to our Minister Kujundzic, but those facts that are good should be commended and thanked to all those who work on a better standard for our patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166111	The next replica is the respected representative Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166112	Here's fellow Cellic we've all agreed on one thing here, which is that medicine is not only made up of buildings but is made up of people, especially medical staff, so as a psychiatrist, you know very well how they are organized psychiatric hospitals. Here we had a chance to hear that there was a large percentage of non-medical staff in certain hospitals, including the neuropsychiatric hospital in Popovaca. Sadly, it is referred to by people who do not know what the structure of certain health institutions is, especially as regards specific hospitals. So I think we should talk about this and not only neuropsychiatric but also special hospitals and other health institutions should have some representatives who are here in the general direction and how well to get acquainted with the structures.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166113	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166114	Here I am glad that you mentioned this, so hospitals dealing with specific parts of medicine such as psychiatric hospitals have unfortunately, since it is a pension type, have very much of this technical non-medical staff that is necessary for the hospital to function among other things and the neuropsychiatric hospital Popovec. What is also one of the projects of the Ministry of Health is the central management system and what is constantly said by the minister who advocates anti-regulatory, and it will, it will be possible with the new Health Protection Act to finally when this information system is established, that those doctors who work more have a higher salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166115	The next replicas of the esteemed representative Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166116	Thank you. Dear colleague, you mentioned several positive examples in our Croatian hospitals, I think it is also necessary to mention positive examples in rehabilitation centres as well. At this point, the Varazdin spas are being restored, so the hospital in the Varazdin Spas. For example. This government, it's very important to say, has re-launched a spinal centre project that the SDP has never completed, and has promised. The hospital, the special hospital Biokovka in Makarska, invests millions of kunas each year into the standard of patients, so accommodation, equipment and draining of doctors, nurses and physiotherapists there is zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166117	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166118	Here, dear colleague Lukačić, I am pleased that you mentioned this segment and with the amendments to the Health Protection Act, health tourism has received a much better configuration and I expect that during the coming years, investments in this area as well as physical therapy and rehabilitation will be much greater investments and that we will then be competitive for EU countries. We already have a certain situation, such as the Rovinj hospital run by Dr. Marinko Rade where insurance companies from other EU countries use high-quality physical therapy and rehabilitation services.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166119	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166120	Dear Vice-President HS, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I often point out that everything is measurable and thus working in politics is measured by economic indicators, i.e. The growth of the economy is measured by the withdrawal of funds from the European Funds, measured by the construction of roads, kindergartens, schools, hospitals, wage growth and pensions that make this government the most successful so far. Col. Podolnjak pointed out in his debate that the public could be convinced of the power of the arguments, which I agree with, but I believe the arguments are on the other side. Currently, in a 32-signator assembly of the motion to recall Minister Kujundzic, there are only 5 or 15% of them, so serious that the recall of Minister Kujundzic is being discussed. The following argument on good governance and the government and health resorts when we talk about the Varazdin County area are the following projects, in Varazdin County, home of health, a project is being implemented to improve access to primary health care worth 12 million 840 thousand kuna and is being implemented. The daily hospital is worth 50 million kuna, the procurement process is under way. The combined emergency hospital reception of 20 million kuna is under way, the public procurement process is under way. An energy reconstruction of 7 buildings worth 83 million kuna has been carried out. In Novi Marof there was built an object of palitative care worth 53 million kuna, a device of magnetic resonance was purchased, all along with the arrangement of space, a value of around 9 million kuna. A 5.5 million kuna CT device has been obtained, both devices are operational. The Spinal Centre in the Varazdinske Toplice worth 107 million kuna, an expended building permit. The Minerve building's energy reconstruction project is being implemented with 82 million kuna. The specialist training of medical doctor in the home of health and emergency services is about 16 million kuna, etc., we can still list up to some amount of 500 million kuna. Let's say the spin centre project is being prepared in 10 years, the current government has prepared it and done it all the way to a construction permit, a day hospital and an emergency hospital reception is being prepared in 15 years, only in the term of the current government and the current minister's competition is under way, and means in the next year, two, we'll be able to put it into circulation. Of course, with all these praises worth investing there are certain irregularities, let's say HZZO inspection is for 2018. found that one of the hospitals without a public procurement procedure so whose responsibility was it, did the minister or director? Let's get this straight. I don't really have anything against the current director, he's a top surgeon, he teaches three high school institutions, and I guess he hasn't been able to track everything, but in that case it's his problem. If you're a surgeon, the principal thinks it's enough that you're a lecturer at one high school facility, not three. Furthermore, there are administrative councils, so let's say the administrative board of a health care facility found that one person who previously worked in that facility paid off 160,000 kuna and asked to return it. Where are the administrative councils? This has obviously done its job very well, but the question is, where is the upgrade, where are the inspections, the DORH, the judiciary and everyone else. Or a third example where one of the directors was anonymously reported to be also a health care facility, a person passes through for eight months for nothing for a period when he was not a director at all. Is it the minister's responsibility or the state's attorney's office that obviously left it out because up here in that anonymous application is the state's attorney's press release when he saw that there were no arguments he decided to drag a few people out, simply put, in the mud? So if everyone in our country would do their part of the job, if they could get a little bit more conscious in the justice system of any kind of case, I think we'd be far, far better for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166121	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166122	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected and persistent ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So today I have said and I will repeat, if someone read this request of opposition regarding your recall, for the recall of the Minister of Health I would read about a system that does not work at all on people who are not being treated in Croatian hospitals but are looking for it on the streets of an alternative medical system that has collapsed. Is that right? 32 MPs who have signed the impeachment can understand why they are not here tonight until the end of this debate, but I cannot understand that they have not reported at least for an individual debate and discussed those things they had as a counterargument, against Minister Kujundzic. So it is said that there is no and no improved health care that the system is not in itself stable, that human resources are not managed, that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute system is economically unsustainable, that hospitals are not integrated, that there is no or that the minister did not bring time-based humane normatives, that he does not actually talk to nurses or medical staff. So, when you have and when you're in the mandate of a government then of course through that program that you bring as a minister you have four years to do certain things. Some may be at the very beginning of the government, and for some, it takes a lot of time, and I think it's clear to all the colleagues who discussed some things today and talked about these demands. But in the social climate of defetism in the Croatian society of different obstructions I think the intensity of the opposition was going to go to go to health because there are people most sensitive and then they thought it would fall to fertile soil. However, this seed did not bear fruit, and in fact many other interpretations that were in this Croatian Parliament have become completely infertile. All countries in the world want to improve their health system. I have tried to at least in our environment to see how some other countries from Slovenia, Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland do about those systems that are not spoken of and which we here in the Croatian Parliament know how to glorify, and to the detriment of our Croatian health system. So when you look at the share of GDP in certain countries, it is much, much higher than in the Republic of Croatia, when you look at the per capital, you will see that it is more than 4, 5 or 6000 euros, so in Croatia 750 euros, when you look at the participations that patients are obliged to pay in those countries from hospital treatment, hospital interventions or in the purchase of expensive medicines, you will see that in a large and strong system such as Swiss you have to participate up to 20%, so up to 20% in the purchase of medicines. And this government has doubled the amount for a year to buy expensive drugs and to treat severe diseases in the RH 1.4 billion kuna. So 1.4 billion kuna is 1% of the Republic of Croatia's budget and we're talking about poor health care in the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry, I don't want to be maligned and talk about how it was during the SDP government, that's what some people were talking about today, but I don't want to abolize it, actually some patients and those who were experiencing it talk about it that way. I will mention only some things that were said today in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, then the then Prime Minister was actually at war with all social groups and mostly with doctors and nurses. Just remember that time. When we talk about this proposal, it is my duty to tell me that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has, through its testimony, explained every such item at some 52 points. Since a lot of them have been discussed today from our benches and also from the lines of opposition, I will mention only some of the things that are very important because some of them were also the reasons for going from the Republic of Croatia and it was actually about the specializations of doctors of medicine who at the time had little or no specializations in order to, say, in the term of office of this government and Minister Kujundzic, it grew exponentially to more than 210 million kunas and, in fact, on the last call as I recall more than 30 health homes and more than 20 emergency medical institutions applied to this competition where they had to and increased the amount of funds related to specializations. I think it's extremely good and it's a good message. Conversing with young doctors who have recently completed medicine as well as their internship, they are full of praise for the health ministry and Minister Kujundzic for being particularly pleased with me. So realizing the situation where we are and improving health care in the Republic of Croatia, I think that at this point, in the best possible way, those who are good are primarily for patients in the Republic of Croatia and the availability of services to them and then medical staff, or doctors themselves. So, another thing I want to talk about because I don't think anyone mentioned it is a joint public procurement that has further relieved certain hospitals of administration and actually saved both the money and the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The attitude towards patients is of paramount importance, and I think that the Ministry of Health has made the best possible approach to patients and those areas that you have today called rural areas where this was not actually possible and actually Minister Kujundzic has approached health and medicine and in those areas by bringing primarily experts, specialists in those areas where they have not yet been and this has been mirrored in very expensive treatments, then in the very diagnostics and adequate services provided to them. What saddened me through this whole debate, which is, I personally don't like it when we glorify others and we're actually talking about ourselves the worst. So to talk about Croatian healthcare and it seems to me that a year or two ago, the Medical Faculty celebrated the 100th anniversary then was actually talking about all the successes of Croatian medicine and we ourselves, if we Google and all of what we do through daily press, daily press or portals, through electronic media often know how to rejoice and these are the successes of our doctors. Today I mentioned some of them who are also here in the Croatian Parliament and many of those doctors that are not spoken of here and deserve all the attention of all of us Parliamentarians, which is actually the pride of all Croatia. But I have to take a look at this micro-level too, so I am grateful to the primary Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Minister Kujundzic for some of the things we talked about a few years in advance and in fact it was one area from Dubrovnik to Split and the lack of any hospital in that area. And then there was actually the idea of a daily hospital in Zagvozd that you mentioned today, and some were also belittled, our distinguished colleagues here respected parliamentary representatives mocking, in fact, the space where it is and the places where it is. But the message to all of them is not a geographical concept but a state of the spirit of certain people who talk about it and actually wish that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has adequate protection. So the daily hospital in Zagvozd provides specialist services to patients from that area, not only from the Imotska krajina, if you want parts of Herzegovina, the entire Makarska coast, but also partly those patients I saw from Ploč and Metkovic, because it is more appropriate and faster for them. Of course, it is in its development and needs to be developed much better in order for it to achieve what we want people to actually get an adequate service at that node. Are we thinking about how much we're saving HZZO funds through travel orders? So one medical code specialist comes to that day hospital saving 20 or 30 patients going to Split or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166123	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166124	My colleague Babić, you have made a superficial analysis that the opposition, or colleagues from MOST, has chosen health care because people are the most sensitive. So this is written in the 7th month, that's when we first chose corruption, that's what people are most sensitive to. So Mr. Kujundiz was not in that group, so those who left, Zalac, Tolusic, Kuščević, Maric, we also wrote a request for impeachment for them, but the Prime Minister replaced them because he had no arguments to defend them. Here he tried to defend the Minister of Health, the minister defended himself even better than the prime minister defended him, and I must commend you, Minister. But all that complains about the opposition talking about the health care system is actually an objection to the president of the Republic. So your candidate for the President of the Republic said that Minister Kujundzic should have left and that nothing had been done in the health care. And now what kind of opposition would I be if I didn't say what if we didn't shut up and your candidate said the minister should have left.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166125	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166126	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bauk, this is the sixth interpretation if we go to every 6 months x 6, 36 in 3 years, out of all these overly constructive proposals that should come from the side of the opposition, it's actually only the interpellative part, and I have nothing against, that is, that's the legitimate right, that's the legitimate right of opposition, and what you're saying is written in the 7th month, so at this point absolutely nothing means whether it's in the 7th or 8th month, but the fact is, and that, too, it came from, from your benches that it would be good to go to Minister Kujundzic because people in the Republic are sensitive to health and health and that it would be a suitable moment to talk about it. So I know you talked about it, it's a legitimate right, but your arguments are worse, and what the government has done in its obvious I think he's talking enough. [[Intruder: Thank you]] which is the Ministry of Health... [[Intruder: Next Individual...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166127	...the debate is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166128	My colleagues from HDZ, so I think you missed the time when you put this debate because you either live in a parallel world or you think it's all wonderful and wonderful because they don't look at you citizens, you should have put this in the morning when there's journalists, citizens because if it's so great, there's money, there's building, there's success colleagues are phenomenal, it's medicine, we know it's like that, and then I'm surprised what you just pushed in the afternoon, midnight, here's a little bit more going to be midnight, so we're still going to discuss it, try to explain so much to us that everything in health is wonderful and that obviously in health it's not. On the other hand, in all your discussions, we are grateful to the minister because the minister gave this, which the ministry gave this, but you must also be grateful to citizens who are now out of their salaries 16.5% for health care, not given by the minister, not given by the ministry, given by citizens, and the minister and the government are here to best schedule it with the health care of the Republic of Croatia to be better. And you're defending the minister, and he's already an ex because the prime minister gave it up, he gave it up at the time when the minister signed, initialled a collective health contract, and then the prime minister and the government said the dots aren't valid, it can't be that way, it's the first time in the history of negotiation and collective agreements in the Republic of Croatia that what's initialed, and that when it's initialized, it means that it's also signed because before the initialment, the minister should agree with the prime minister and the finance minister whether it can initialize it, not then this is just the second, second act that's more so for, for the media and the public. It was the first time that the minister was a parafiro, and the prime minister said it couldn't, it couldn't, but then, at that time, he gave it up and quite certain that everything you today try to convince us that the situation is phenomenal, you assure yourself because you're not exactly defending the Minister of the Air, but obviously you have an indication of how it should look, so boast about how it is in Sibenik, how it is in Varazdin, that it's somewhere in other hospitals. But gentlemen, I'm from the system as well as the minister, the buildings, the money doesn't make up health care, the health care makes people leave you and will go away and this salary increase is not something that will stop this departure, what should stop is a better relationship and a better situation in health because in health care they are dissatisfied and citizens and they are dissatisfied and users of services, people who work in the system are also unhappy and then people who work in the system wonder why it is so, if there is money, money is given, but still people, people are unhappy and why this impelation for a change of ministers has appeared? Because he did not do what he was supposed to do as a minister, and he as a minister is not only there to share money, but he is there to make reform of the system and to introduce order into the system because at the moment we are investing in health care of 23 billion kuna, it is huge money, and we do not have that answer and the result that would expect for such great money and the minister did not do it, the mother of all reforms is the system of hospitals, we are the only country that has 63 hospitals, some criterion to have two hospitals to each other is 60 km, our average is 37, the only two regions that match it is Pula-Rijek and Split-Dubrovnik, but also here when we talk about Split and Dubrovnik the minister going to build a monument in Zagvozdo and build a daily hospital where there is no daily hospital where there are no patients, so there are no doctors coming from Split and there's absolutely no citizens at hand because 20 minutes from Zagvozvod to Makarska or, to Metković and I don't know that there't know that there't be any kids from Split that they can be safe in Split, because of health in Split, so I't go to Split, so I't want to go to the hospital, because of health, because of Split, because of health, because of health, because I's to get to get to the hospital, because I's to go to go to the hospital, because to make it to get to make to make it to make it to make it to make it to make it to make it to make it to go to go to go to the money to the money to the hospital to the money to the hospital to the right to the right to the doctor. Hospitals spend 99% of your salary money, when they spend 99% of their salary money, it's logical that there's no for everyone else, and there's got to be health care because it's guaranteed by the Constitution and I'm coming back again, the mother of all reforms is the reform of the hospital system where the minister doesn't do anything. You can see by the losses that are rising, 150 million kuna per month is working on your hospital system. This is seen by drug debts, they grow every day, and then the big drug business went off the hook because they couldn't agree to collect the debts. One of the most effective ministers who went and led to the payment of debts was Minister Milinovic, and you know why, because he was the deputy chief of HDZ, and apparently Minister Kujundzic is not close to the prime minister because that would have made it very easy for the prime minister to reach out for the bag and resolve the debt issue with wholesale drugs and health debts. And why am I always saying that the minister is ex? For the reason you gave him up. This is only a farce towards the citizens now, but the minister did not have the confidence of the prime minister when the prime minister denied him the signing of the collective agreement and then needed to make a political move, he showed that he was a political coward because then he should have said no, I am a minister, I signed that collective contract and I stand behind him. This was seen by all the citizens, and after that, the repair went, so it was signed again, and it was the same again, but it was very clear that the minister did not enjoy the confidence of the prime minister. And what's a farce today, because it's clear that Plenkovic doesn't want to destabilize him, he doesn't want Milan Kujundzic to come to the assembly because he's very eloquent as a politician, we saw him in the presidential elections, and that's where he'd be making a mess. Well, then, you'd better sacrifice your negratulation in the health system and sacrifice your health system better than sacrifice your stability policy and create problems here in the assembly. And it's a taste of what's going on around Minister Kujundzic's recall, because don't accuse MOST of being like this, that he's like this, they did what they thought was best, if it was one paper, ten paper, fifteen paper, dear God anyway because everyone sees the problems in the system, and so I'm surprised that you're trying so hard tonight to explain to us that in the system it's phenomenal, that we're guilty, that in addition to healthy eyes we don't see things going well in the system and that the system won't withstand the challenges that are ahead of them. I wonder again why you didn't do it at the time when it was television, when it was transmission and then show how wonderful and wonderful everything is and how HDZ knows how to run this country. This just shows that you've made a mistake, that the minister who didn't bring the health system to what was supposed to lead, and he had a wonderful opportunity, had a great opportunity to do it because he had a situation that was very comfortable in his budget, got another 2 billion kuna in his budget, which financially provided him with stability, and then he had to reform the hospital system, and he didn't dare and that's why he asked for impeachment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166129	You have several replicas on your exhibit. She is the first respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166130	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you've spoken a little ironically about how we boast here, but it's not a good time because it's a late debate, and we've timed it that way. You're not right the debate is this, the point today was the second one on the agenda, the debate started this afternoon, and it can last all night, it depends on us. As for the fact that people are very important in this system, I agree with you here, but the same people in that system, the same people you, as the minister, have cut salaries, abolished Christmas cards, and now that you're in opposition, you're very concerned about their salary hikes. I don't see how credible you are here. You'll say there was a crisis. I'm just reminding you that this same minister you're asking for today's vote of no confidence, and this government has raised the salary 18%.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166131	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166132	When will you start and stop hiding behind the SDP or some other government? There was a crisis, and it's true, and then we did what we did, and we said, we'll give it back to you at the moment when the situation gets better. And this situation is better now because we made those cuts at the time. And you are now returning what we promised everyone we cut in public services because then they needed to pay their salaries and pensions and there was no other way, and what you left us, you left us in 2010. 14 billion kuna hole in the budget, the biggest hole in the budget in the history of the Republic of Croatia. That's what you did in HDZ, we fixed it, and we said we'd get it back. And what's coming back now, de facto you're returning what we promised. And don't hide behind the SDP or any other government. Do what you're supposed to do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166133	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166134	Thank you. Dear Representative, you were SDP's minister in Prime Minister Milanovic's government, and I think you will not have a problem listing a single facility that was built in the area of the Varazdin County in your term. So not two, not three, not four, not five, one single facility in health care that was built in your term or restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166135	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166136	Well, Your Honor, I have no information or should have, but I'm still telling you that opening a building, getting a machine, getting a magnet is worth it, but if you have a top-notch device, and there's no one to work on, there's no one to read and find it, it's like you don't have one. And you said very nicely what everything was done in Varazdin, but on the other hand, the question again is how many people in Varazdin benefit from it because it's a question of who works on these devices. And what we've been pointing out all along is that people are leaving and that nothing has been done to keep people. The buildings themselves, the devices themselves are not a guarantee that health care will be appropriate, what is an organization and preventing you from getting money through public procurement on all sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166137	The next individual debate should be a respected representative of Vlaovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. So the next debate will be respected MPs Zeljke Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166138	Thank you. Here's today at the end of the day, I'd say so, we've heard what's for and against the recall of the minister. I feel like there's some kind of personal war going on here all the time, and somehow it seems less and less like we're talking about health care here where some of us are working. We heard what's going on in certain counties, what's going on in certain hospitals, some here say that here we point out our good side in our hospitals or in our counties. I wouldn't say that they're good sides or to point someone out or raise someone up, what we need to know where we live and the time we live in is the fact that we'll all agree that doctors are really leaving and going to better jobs. Of course, we all have that right, regardless of what the political option is in power. But let's be realistic, let's say who's doing what for our colleagues. I mentioned several examples on several occasions, good examples from my county. Someone may not like it, but we are really trying and trying to keep colleagues who want to live in Sisak-Moslavina County. If I say that there are 70 young doctors in our hospital who are specializing, I don't think I'm raising anyone here. I think these are the people who decided to spend their working life in that hospital. That conditions may not be ideal every time or not, but we are really trying to make them. If we look at a new building being done for a united emergency hospital reception, if I say we're doing a new building in a day hospital, that's all the important things that matter to us in Sisak-Moslavina County. I can agree with you that buildings will not form a health system and will not make hospitals, of course they are made by people who will work in them. Right now we have these people working in them, right now these people are working on machines that have been bought in the last year, two or three. Right now, our patients can really say that they have much more quality health care than they had in that period when I started working. I can't agree with some colleagues who say we won't need these buildings. They don't know what conditions we've been working on in certain moments, they don't know where our patients have been. And these patients of ours and those of our colleagues and those of our sisters really deserve better conditions not only for work but for health care. I'll just say that in this county which is truly poor in which it lives I would say that the oldest population in the Republic of Croatia has invested around 15 million kunas in primary health care. So it's about equipment, sanitary nodes for people with disabilities, access ramps. I also mentioned to be symbolic, I would say, but I think that's a good way to go, scholarships are given for doctoral studies. So at this point, two scholarships are awarded worth 60,000 kuna. We who know what doctoral studies mean, we know that it won't be a large amount, but it will be a help that at this point will mean something to our colleagues. If I say that part of our assets bought a magnetic resonance device that maybe some people think we don't need, I have to say they're very wrong about it. Doctors certainly know that medicine has progressed greatly and that with this progression, this magnetic resonance device and the county mean a lot. What we know, and those who work especially at the ministry, know that in Sisak hospital recently, that refurbished equipment had to be renewed for a very simple reason that it was so old that it could no longer be worked on. Colonoscopes and gastroscopes have also been purchased and four new ultrasounds are currently being purchased. When someone's talking like this who works in that hospital, then it always seems to you that we like to lift ourselves up hard in heaven, that we're very good. But here I am going to move a little further towards the part of Banovina and the House of Health of Petrinja, who invested in her doctors in the Iron and Topusco in a way that gave them a certain standard and their wages, and of course they finance it from their means. Also, the same House of Health, Topusco, enabled people in Banovina to have their radiological diagnostics in Topusco. These are small things and we will all agree that these people probably deserve more, but let's be realistic if we maintain the standard we currently have and if we build it up in the future, I really believe that we will be able to provide better health care, as well as more satisfaction for workers in these areas. I'm glad they work there are satisfied and came from other parts, not just from Sisak-Moslavina County. There are currently two doctors in the Iron and Topusco who are not from Sisak-Moslavina County, and that's what I need to say. That we lack a doctor in the field of pediatrics and gynecology, we are missing on, so no one is running away from it and it is clear to all of us so that the ministry must really try and take a lot more steps to educate them and keep them in these areas. Let's not forget, we're all talking about clinics and how the best equipment is just left in the clinic, but here are examples that part of this good equipment, part of these good appliances can come to places that are both outside of Zagreb and outside the centre of the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166139	Thank you. The next individual debate should be, and on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative of Ines Strenja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166140	Well, if we've forgotten what we're talking about, I'll tell you what we should have done. Therefore, there was a need to ensure greater availability outside hospital and hospital emergency care, which means to implement legal and educational assumptions for the gradual professionally sustainable transfer of part of the job and responsibility with doctors outside hospital emergency medicine to trained nurses and medical technicians, and thus to have instead of a transport T2 emergency team where only sisters and, sisters and drivers, a reanimation team who in the meantime could save many human lives, so we talked about this sifting a year ago, it is 500 doctors that we can put from car to OHBP means in hospitals where they are missing. Once again, do you know how many doctors have gone? As one whole of KBC Rijeka and KBC Osijek, so many doctors left. So, we can't do this through increasing I don't know which number of medical students in very long years to replace because it's not just a college since the age of 6, but it's also years of specialization and years of profession because some of them are experts, so in their fields, they didn't just go to young doctors. I was already talking about an emergency helicopter service, so it was necessary to speed up the reception procedure in emergency hospital receptions and to prevent or at least reduce the possibility of a fatal error due to an unfair identification of the death threat, so it is necessary to carry out a procedure to introduce and standardise triage in hospital emergency receptions, it is necessary to increase the interest of young doctors to specialize and work in emergency activities because unfortunately the response to the competition and the interest is worrying little, we also testify in Dubrovnik. So when I was a young doctor, Dubrovnik was a dream, get a specialization there, today they can't fill the emergency specials, imagine how in just some other smaller hospitals. Therefore, specializations in emergency medicine should be established in a modern way, but should also be organised in order for young doctors to have an interest and will to specialize in emergency medicine, and not as today specialise in emergency medicine between serious reanimation procedures to pick up joints or ticks at hospital emergency reception, which is why it is very little interest for specializations unlike colleagues abroad. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure the availability of medicines for citizens of Lika-Senj County, this is concrete. So, do you know after the hours end on Friday that by Monday you have no place to take panadon for a child, not an antibiotic, a panadon for a fever or a hat from Gospić to Zadar, or Gračac, or Otočac, and those from Otočca go to Ogulin, they said there is a pharmacy on duty. So, the priority is to establish a contract point of pharmaceutical duty in units of regional administration and self-government where they are missing, which is what we said, that is, concretely, to ensure the availability of medicines to tourists in tourist resorts and elsewhere where necessary. Therefore, consider legal moderations that will commit units of local (regional) administration and self-government to the establishment and financing of additional permanent or temporary points for day-to-day medical services in tourist regions. A special story is tourism medicine, we know how dependent we are on tourism, we needed to ensure the availability of primary health care for tourists and other necessary patients in the tourist environments because the existing mahogany pattern significantly burdens primary healthcare capacities and reduces the availability of doctors to domestic patients. In my county, 25 years old. There are tourist hospitals, there are no hospitals in Split, so there's a health director who said they don't need it. So, you need to arrange a way of organising the work of tourist ambulances, you can't depend on the will of a local powerl or local county home of health, so you need to arrange a way of organising the work of tourist ambulances in such a way as to ensure the costs of income of doctors and nurses in such clinics from collected residence fees, while the costs of medicines prescribed in tourist clinics, and the burden on HZZO health care funds provided by the pharmacists, as you can always ask for a refund. Thus, this ensures a higher level of security for all tourists who come to the Republic of Croatia and help with their spending through the state budget. The funds for the work of additional teams outside hospital emergency medical assistance on highways should also be secured on the burden of Croatian highway funds, thus raising the level of safety in the use of them. Such more precise methods of financing health care during the summer months during the tourist season [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I'd be... [[Intruder: Next individual debate...]] in the tourist season. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166141	...was supposed to be a respected colleague of Karlic's, he's gone, he's losing his right, the next should be a colleague of Kirin's, and he's not here, so the next one will be a respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, it's already time-consuming, I wonder if there's any more sense to say, a team before I think that all we're saying from the opposition is one of Sisif's work, but since I've stayed here until these late hours, I'm going to say a few sentences to point out one of the key problems that I think is due to the inaction and inaction of the current minister, and it concerns the fiscally unsustainable health system that we currently have. In my debate, I will use numbers, so without any party preferences, without any subjective experiences, figures black on white that show the current state. Just one sentence about some past times because we are in 2019 today, we are talking about the current minister, which was in 2015, in fact completely irrelevant but there is one important fact because there is always this number and these moves in one wrong way interpreted and actually abused. If we want to be really exact because we said that medicine was based on evidence, politics could be based on facts then it should be said that the recovery and reform that was carried out in 2012 through 2015 at the time of the SDP government was a recovery in which not only the inherited debts from the previous government were recovered, and they were colleagues and colleagues, whether you wanted to admit it or not, were huge, but at that time we also shortened the payment deadlines legally. Therefore, the payment deadline where the debts were due had to be paid was not more than 180 days but was reduced to 60 days. So overnight, six billion kunas of debt became due, and it had to be paid, and at the time of the recession, you know what the recession was like. So neither the recovery accounting nor the mathematically could be compared to any of the resolutions that came after that, so it was 6 billion. What remains to be avoided, and what should be explained to those who want to hear it, so the total commitments and commitments are two completely different concepts, these are pears and apples, they can't be chased and based on the fact that they're talking about the total, thoughts of the commitments being made, and thus combine the effects in different times. Therefore, when we talk about total liabilities, they represent all the receipts of an institution and reached and failed. They are not in themselves a problem, so without them it would mean that all paid advances or that institutions do not exist at all, so there is no debt. The problem, however, has come to our attention. So these public health debts have been moving around 8 billion kuna for years and they are not in themselves a problem, the problem has reached obligations, obligations that must be paid now within 60 days. And it is these obligations during this period that the current Plenkovic government and the health minister are constantly growing. So, colleagues and colleagues, they are constantly growing despite the growth of the economy, the growth of the incomes of HZZO, and we have continued to have additional resolutions that the Ministry of Finance is pumping into the health system during 2017 and 2018, which is a key problem which is why I believe that the current system is not financially sustainable. So, in 31.12.2015, I was showing it on this slide, which in black shows what the condition is, so nothing can be haired, it was made by the Health Employers' Association, in 31.12.2015, by all health obligations amounted to 2.5 billion kuna, of which the hospital sector was 1.9 billion. 3 years later, in 31.12.2018, the hospital sector's commitments amounted to 3 billion kuna, so follow how much they increased, while additional billions and 700 million kuna were paid in 2017 and 2018 from the state budget on top of HZZO debt revenues. This means that over the past three years public hospitals have averaged 77 million kunas of new debt each month, and in 2018 it was 100 million kunas of new debt each month. So follow me, 77 million every month, 2018. 100 million every month. However, the data we heard the other day at the Health Association Congress are even more alarming, there has never been such a difficult situation in history with regard to the commitments made, and they are a problem because you have to pay them within 60 days, if you don't pay them all those instruments that increase debt. Therefore, this is crucial when we say why we believe that the current health system is not financially sustainable. We came to 2019, so the best year for health care, 26 billion kuna in HZZO. There have never been 26 billion kunas in history in HZZO. Why? I have an increased rate of health insurance obligations that normally account for 82% of all incomes, but despite this, huge 26 billion, 2 billion additionally gave the Ministry of Finance to health, we received September 30, 2019. 4.3 billion kunas of commitments made by colleagues and colleagues, commitments made, of which 99% is a hospital system and therefore it is clear who creates problems and why these problems are not solved. So this particular slide that I've shown repeatedly tells where the key problem is. So you can track it from 2008 through 2015 to 2019 and this problem under this administration is not solved or we see indications that it will be solved. So, what's the additional concern? 77 million per month was created in 2017, 100 million kuna a month a new debt was created in 2018, and now we came despite the fact that we have the 26 million kuna the largest budget of HZZO 2 billion and 200 million additional finances that came from the Ministry of Finance into the health sector, and the debts grow 133 million kuna per month. So despite the fact that we have the most money, debt is never created faster and more and therefore it turns out that the system is actually not financially sustainable. Over the past three and a half years, hospital sector revenues have been growing steadily, but expenditures are growing even faster. Why? They grow due to employee costs, due to pay increases, changes in collective contract, new employment, which is on average 4.5% a year. The growth and cost of medicines is about 20% per year, while we hear pharmaceutical industry, manufacturers, wholesale drugs are not satisfied with prices, prices do not rise or rise quantitatively. At the same time, however, it is also a question of the reference list of medicines in which prices are determined and why we took France and Italy when we could take some other countries where prices are lower and then the automatic prices in Croatia would be lower. Are we protecting the so-called. Home industry, somebody else answer. Therefore, these are all reasons why we believe that the minister has not invested enough energy to ensure the financial sustainability of the health system and the financial sustainability of the health system and we consider this to be his biggest problem in his work. The figures are accurate, they have neither the red nor the green side and show that in order to ensure a fiscally sustainable system, a system of participation, a system of hospital payment, a system of remuneration for employees, a system of supply of medicines, a system of control. However, most of these base measures are not announced, let alone in preparation or implementation. Therefore, any additional spending of money and we have heard the desire to increase contributions from supplementary health insurance would mean, in fact, only creating even more ineffectiveness in the health system. Therefore, for these concrete reforms towards ensuring a fiscally sustainable health system, the current minister did not show sufficient will or desire. So for this reason, we think it would be good for someone else to take over this system and do something more on the spending side because costs should be actively managed and not just asked to increase revenues without the cost side being touched at the same time. Therefore, payment should be introduced in both quantity and quality, especially in hospitals, and employees should be rewarded on the basis of their work, quantity and quality. A more rational network of hospitals should be established, centrally coordinated planning needs and procurement in health care, accreditation of all hospitals, introduction of controls at all levels, full information, networking of all institutions, more rational pharmaconomics, new procurement system, different reference of drug prices, introduction of clear clinical guidelines for treatment algorithms, more precise definition of rights and obligations... and public and health care institutions special hospital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, much had to be done, the minister unfortunately missed it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166143	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable representative Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166144	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Jovanovic, when you were talking about numbers, we have those numbers, too. The total obligations of health institutions and HZZO during the period from 31.12.2012 to 31.12.2018 can be clearly seen that in 31.12.2012 the total liabilities were €11.6 billion in order to be €8.4 billion in 31.12.2018, not to speak with which payment deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166145	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166146	Here's your colleague again, you've shown that you don't know, so it's not the whole obligation problem, it's the commitment that's come to an end. On 31.12.2015, they amounted to 2 billion, 31.12.2018. 3 billion, 30.9.2019. 4.3 billion. In 2017, 77 million new debt was created monthly, 2018. 100 million new debt and this year 133 million new debt is being created more and more quickly despite the higher incomes in the health care system. So a debt is a problem for a colleague, not a total commitment. Total liabilities mean business, total liabilities mean business and you have to pay the due debt. When you don't pay your dues, then the executions go. That's what you had to learn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166147	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, a respected minister who is not here, a colleague and a colleague. So we heard today a lot of statistics and statistics are how I like the exact sum of incorrect data. I'd rather talk about the reality that patients are facing, first of all, I'm looking at it from the perspective of the patient they're facing. Here I was lying in the KB of Dubrava in which, the minister invited some to make a diagnosis, in my hospital room window glass was taped with tape. What kind of conditions are we talking about, colleagues and colleagues? I already mentioned a sanitary node of cardiology in KBC Osijek that swims in urine. I'm sorry I couldn't photograph it and bring it to you to see what it looks like. And what kind of health standards are we talking about then? What kind of dignity do people who are forced to do, so first of all patients use that sanitary node we're talking about? Why is that? Did the installation last? Whether the cleanup staff is reckless or there's nothing to clean it with, I don't know, I can't get into it. But I tell you what I met as a patient. Will you come see the conditions in which doctors work on the internal department of KBC Osijek, or neurology even better? There are internal hospitals in the basement, often very non-conditional, even the noise of waste from ceilings some, in such conditions doctors work or do you want to come to a neurology that is still in barracks whose walls are thick of styrofoam and which are over 30, 40 years' temporary solution to that department? Will you come to Osijek when the X-ray machine doesn't work at the House of Health Osijek? When in KBC, Osijek waits for a month for an X-ray and itself, especially you who are doctors know how often the X-ray is actually used and the search is needed before the diagnosis. And when people are sent to Nashice, which is the nearest hospital if we exclude that Vukovar where there aren't so many waitings, but Nashica are a little less than 50km from Osijek which, unfortunately, we're talking about such reality, some of us can't afford it. We're talking about a health system where, as I said, patients on pucks in pain, not with their choice, not because they ignored their disease, but because it happened and the first examination by a specialist can only be made on January 19th, 19th. And then we talk about the availability of healthcare. Well the availability of healthcare is who experiences it will have it. Unfortunately, that's what it comes down to. It's a quiet privatization of health care where people are forced, those who can, of course, afford to go to the private court to do the tests, so they can have an examination of specialists because simply by the time they get there, they don't know if they'll welcome any to them. When we talk about dignity, employees, I can only tell you, I asked the Ministry about the media pay of nurses or technicians and doctors of general practice, team leader, these are the answers from March though, so I believe that it's changed by now but we can take that as the same information. So, the median salary of nurses in March this year, or medical technician, was 6566 kuna and 82 June. Media pay, colleagues and colleagues, which means that at least 50% or 49% of medical technicians and nurses work for less than this salary. As for the general practitioner, team leader, their median salary in March was 9569 kuna and 92 June. Both salaries are not so poorly observed and when compared to the average but I will remind you again, this means that 49% of the least general practitioners work for a lower salary. For the smaller one. So if we're talking about employee dignity, he doesn't exist, at least in my humble opinion, we've seen in what conditions they're working on, that's what I've been telling you about, we've seen what pay they're working for. Dear Minister, I've asked a lot of questions to your ministry and some of the answers I've received are simply not at the level. Or maybe I could write you questions again and say I didn't ask you that, Minister. Here are two examples. I asked you a question about what the ministry is doing to improve patient nutrition in Croatian hospitals? Believe me, I know why I'm asking you this because I've been feeding on that diet or I've been a user of the same, not to tell you how much weight I've lost, etc., and your ministry suits me with the decision to prescribe the standards of diet in hospitals in such a way that in all hospitals ma in the area of the Republic of Croatia there is a uniform labelling of the number of diets etc., etc., the basis for calculating the normative meals and menus for each child are the tricks listed in paragraph 2, item etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. So what would you say in a sports dictionary, you missed the whole ball. Or another question. When I asked you what it was about, or what the plan of the ministry was and what was taken to reduce corruption in health, the response I received, in case the Ministry of Health acquired knowledge of the criminal offence, the taking of bribes in economic business from art. that and that law, blah blah blah, is reported by the competent ministry without delay. But that's not what I asked again. I know what the procedure is, I know what regulations you're calling for when we have the standard we've acquired. I asked what I was planning. It means... I guess I can ask questions, get similar bureaucratic answers that you sign, Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for practices in county or county hospitals, there are also a lot of things that could be discussed, let's say the new Law on Health Care of the Republic of Croatia entered into force on 1 January 2019, in the 1st month. In 2019, doctors working in health homes submitted requests for space rental in the exercise of concession rights under a new contract... Some counties, more specifically my county has settled this only recently, Osijek-Baranja County. There are also a whole series of dilemmas, let's just say, after the county has asked for a statement and got it, so she prescribed some decisions that are not exactly in line with it, again if you ask me, so my question to you would it be possible to determine by the founder's decision that there would be more than 25% of the office in the health care home, or whether the decision of the founder would arrange that in the home of health there would be less than 25% of the office in any activity, because it is, in the end, obviously, an interpretation that your ministry gave, it is not clear to some counties or what you have responded to is that the decision of the founder could not be determined that there would be more than 25% in the home of health, so I'm interpreting it as a limit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the law said that the home of health required by the founder's decision is to ensure that every activity has up to 25% of the office or you think that you should control more what is done on the ground, what is done with the county hospitals and those who formally finance the county, they are financed from the state budget or at the end of the day, without the money they receive from the budget of that hospital could not function so that I immediately invite you to do so in the area of Osijek-Baranja County. The system of health is worn by dedicated individuals and unfortunately it has become a practice in Croatia as well as a system of education worn by people who care and who work in it. It's clear to me that the minister can't solve all the problems in one term, not in two or three years, but what I resent is that I don't see an attempt to solve any problems, even if it's those hygienic conditions in the departments of certain hospitals. Namely, citizens do not see the strong work of Minister Kujundzic, doctors and nurses do not see him either, and neither do we see him in opposition, only those who see him are ruling. People literally die on the road because the system isn't well laid up, we have a lot of tragic cases on which I don't want to repeat you and by ruling games, they act as if the health system is their toy they took and it's extremely dangerous. If you're so sure of what you've been saying all afternoon, if everything is so wonderful, wonderful and wonderful, then let's go to early elections and hear what the citizens think about this health system, about how you've been doing health and education, economics, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166149	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Snježana Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166150	Thank you very much, dear President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I remember the 2014 presidential election when the minister was a candidate. My presidential candidate, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, then the young man in the election won 17%. Today he is a representative of the EU Parliament, and Mr. Minister, as I recall, an experienced doctor and politician, then got something small. At that time, it was already seen that it did not pour the citizens' trust. Unfortunately, today neither does the trust of these same citizens. In fact, I dare say that he killed Croatian health by his ministerial appearance. Never again have doctors and nurses left Croatia, never have the larger waiting lists been, our hospitals are truly in a catastrophic state, not equipped and falling apart. A lot of hospitals are shutting down, and the fact is that we have a lot of hospitals where we don't have a doctor at all, that really, really. We have hospitals where we don't have a doctor. Unimaginable, but it's a fact. Also, there are no legal norms due to direct failures and lack of systems, unfortunately many terrible things have happened, but Mr. Minister is not held responsible for the state of health, does not understand the concept of responsibility, does not understand that he lost 4 years, 4 critical years. If we analyze the health situation a little bit, we can only compare the number of healthcare professionals, doctors and nurses and the satisfaction of the citizens before and hopefully after, now his term of office. In fact, it is a sad fact that we here today are discussing the mistrust of the minister because if Mr. Minister had had a moral obligation, he would say goodbye to that position when it became known that his son wanted to enroll in the university or the moment the Croatian public found out that he had faked the war route and then spit in the face of all Croatian defenders. That's terrible. We had everything in the ministry, but Mr. Kujundzic indisputably deserves the title of the Croatian Health Killer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166151	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166152	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Minister Kujundzic. Today, we will point to the current privatisation process that is happening in health care and what steps lead to this. We want to draw attention to the state of play in the Croatian Supplemental Health Insurance. In 2013, 95% of the total number of insurance companies was secured in HZZO, and only 5% of private insurance companies. 3 years later, in 2016, that number fell to 89% of HZZO insurance companies and 11% of private insurance companies. Last year, in the first two months, profits, i.e. HZZO's income from supplementary health insurance fell by 5 million kuna. In those two months, it is evident that 70,000 users have moved from HZZO to private insurance companies. It's defeating the fact that 90% of the insurance companies are over 60 years old. So people who have more health problems, whose treatment is more expensive. It is important to note that half of the insurance companies do not have additional insurance for pensioners or do not offer the same supplementary insurance to pensioners. So, we've come into a situation, that if you're young and you're healthy, you pay additionally where privates profit at the minimum cost of your treatment, and when you get old, then your hands are raised from you and you're rerouted to HZZO, to the burden, of course, of public money. This puts HZZO in an unequal situation where it cannot compete with privates and puts itself in a situation of inevitable bankruptcy and destruction. Furthermore, most of the insurance companies of the MUP and the chamber, the medical chamber, were transferred from the HZZ to public privates. The insurance companies of the MORH were transferred to all, the MORH financed from the state budget, which is financed by our money and instead of returning money to the state through that insurance in HZZO, that money goes to private insurance companies. This doesn't make sense, and this is an indicator of the intentional destruction of HZZO while people in companies, for example. like Croatia insurance full of their pockets, buy yachts, buy villas. Most importantly, we are witnessing many and many cases where private insurance companies are breaking off contracts. They break off contracts in severe illnesses or in some of the frequent treatments. In the future, we expect an increase in such cases, a complete privatisation of health care, where only the richer ones will be able to be treated. The rest of them are waiting to sell their assets, so they can follow their treatment at all, or they'll have to watch their loved ones die slowly because they don't have the basic means to pay for the search or their treatment. It will be Mr. Kujundzic's last nail in the coffin of our health system, of course, the system we knew and the completion of the process that was long planned. You, Mr. Kujundzic, are the silent undertaker of the Croatian health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166153	Thank you. The next individual debate is a respected representative, and first, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166154	Thank you, Vice President. Here, it is midnight and I think that the Croatian healthcare system, Croatian doctors, Croatian nurses, health staff and Croatian patients deserve to discuss the state of the health system and here from this place I especially welcome the nurses with whom we have protested here to support them in Mark's square. Many of them are now in their workplace under difficult conditions. If we mention hospitals for prolonged treatment one sister to 80 people, then if we mention the meaning of other health institutions we also have impossible, impossible ratios. Because of your carelessness, there has been a complete marginalisation of the health care and rehabilitation activities in the patient's house, along with general palitative care. This led to an unequal status in relation to other entities in the health system. So the whole activity was thrown on its knees, many institutions came to a point where they can no longer financially endure, so one number of them stopped working mainly in deprived, rural and island areas. The illustrations work for the nurse's way in nursing care in the house to some patients more than 80 km from the institution's headquarters, along the macadam and forest roads lasts about 90 minutes. The price HZZO pays is the same as in the centre of larger cities where costs are significantly lower due to population density and traffic connection. The share of material costs in the most endangered rural areas is extremely high must be constantly handled by a vehicle that is rapidly amortised on a bad path. There are restrictions in the work with numerous factors such as meteorological opportunities and distances, which make time lost that can be done much more in urban areas, thereby significantly reducing business costs. The health care and rehabilitation activities of the patient’s home were established by private health professionals mostly nurses, technicians who stepped into a uncertain enterprise venture. They invested significant funds in their education, equipment, space and education of their employees. Therefore, this did not burden resources from the state budget, and the total investment still serves public health needs through activities that are networked into the national health system. Such a finished product today is offered to the community in the hope that through synergy with family medicine and all others it will become a new impulse in development. Some estimates suggest that even 1 kuna invested for healthcare and rehabilitation in the home of patients in the most endangered rural areas and islands result in a minimum of 10 to 20 kuna savings in the health and society system as a whole because it affects the reduction of hospital costs and emergency medical intervention. If these issues are not resolved in this activity, it is difficult to revive both the functioning and the palitative concerns in this area. Minister, it's as if you're doing your best to completely destroy this activity that our nurses and technicians carry on their backs. So I want to express my support to all the nurses and technicians from this place. So there are both people and parliamentary deputies who express their full support and who are willing to respond to all the actions that they organise and I think that this debate with the Minister himself has been very correct, if it means exception means this last part of the one that brought out the colleagues from the Living Wall has not gone to any personal level, we're talking about problems. My colleagues from the Living Wall have warned of some things that they have been dragging behind Minister Kujundzic for a long time, but what you've brought forward has been presented by his party colleagues for this desertion by his party colleague from the HDZ, Andrija Hebrang. We have not reached out to this debate, we have reached for concrete, concrete arguments means both the state of the health system and, in that sense, I think it is much more quality. There will certainly be opportunities to talk about these things. So the impeachment which, or the reasons for the recall, is the state of the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166155	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166156	Mr. Grmoja, not only Minister Kujundzic is as incompetent as you stated, I must remind you that what is done in Croatian health on purpose means he is deliberately destroying himself. And why is it destroying? So we can privatize him. So that all work could be transferred to polyclinics, so that it could be charged multiplely for the work that is now being done. So that people, i.e. Most people won't have to treat. They'll have only the richer ones, only the richer ones, and the rest of the people will watch them die, as they die in the United States. Well, it happens there that if you accidentally lose two fingers, and you don't have the money to sew both your fingers you can choose which finger to sew up without this other one you'll be left with. Here's what Croatia expects. And very soon. It will happen very soon, and this minister does, but so do you who raise your hands for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166157	Honorable representative of the Grmoy, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166158	Dear colleague, we don't raise our hands for any laws, so what I agree with you is that the system needs to be digitized and that's our suggestion that we know who works at the hospital, whether it's doing its part of the job, that then it can work in this private area means an additional job. And we're up for it, and I agree with you that we can't have someone not doing their job and then doing that job means private, and that's where they make extra money. That's what's not supposed to happen and nobody supports it. But we also have to do everything we can to keep our doctors in Croatia because if our doctors go where they feel better, then there will be no health care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166159	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Listening to today's debate, especially on the part of the HDZ colleagues, I have recorded a few obvious illogicalities that I will have in this individual debate, which is why I signed up a little later because I didn't mean to argue, but when I heard the arguments, I had little three replicas to do everything with counterarguments. So the first thing that could have occurred was that the opposition had nothing better to do than write watches on two pages to harass ministers without any arguments, etc. It's the first impression. Now let's do a brief analysis of those pieces that we've done. Pave Barisic ex, Martina Dalic ex, Nada Murganic ex, Gabriela Zalac ex, Tomislav Tolusic ex, Lovro Kuščević ex, Goran Maric ex and Zdravko Maric is not former for one vote. So it's not like we're the ones who remember what we're thinking in the morning about the coffee that we're going to apply for a recall, so without any arguments, we're going to refer that request and then we're going to harass you here until midnight and we're keeping you here to discuss it. Therefore, I would be more careful when we talk about the opposition's demands, as you can see if we don't quite score in regular time, as this was when the prime minister replaced before then it comes in a judicial compensation, they leave later. So, I'm not saying that's how it's gonna be for you for now, and so far there's no indication. Secondly, in his debate today, Mr. Boric tried to belittle Mrs. Strenja as he said about what the ministers are doing and they are responsible, and the board presidents are doing nothing. I'm surprised, Mr. Vice President, as well as the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, that you didn't give him a warning about it. So I think the board presidents are doing something, but there's a board president... It's because of the words all the time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What is the reason for these warnings? So, let's say we have one case of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy from the ruling majority, which I quote "that its impact on HDZ's policy is as ordinary citizen of Finland", so if the chairman of the ruling majority board has an impact on politics as a citizen of Finland, then the chairman of the opposition committee has an influence as a citizen of Madagascar. So, I wouldn't compromise this way with the prime minister and his opinions on the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, but my colleague, Boric, had the need to mention it several times to Mrs Strenja. Next, the trees and stones on SDP's government and I'll quote those who led, so I can only say down Varga, down Milank and down Vrdoljak that's your coalition partners they've been leading. So Varga was the health minister, right, the vice president of social activities was Milanka Opačić in charge of him, they're in the club of the Rada Party and solidarity today, and I would normally call this club varda, varga and fraud, it's a citizen scam. That's it, so if you're discussing with those who led you have your coalition partners meaning those three ministers who were ministers and those from the HNS. And when Mr. Strac asks who was with us during the term of office of our government a fellow citizen from the building in Varazdin County has Shtromar who was with us, there is Batinić who was with us and has Habek who was with us from Varazdin County so ask them what you ask us. I've had enough of the media to listen to you two fighting in the coalition. I've said this with the president a few times. So I'll do it again for the fourth time, the president told Mr. Minister that nothing had been done in health care for three years, she didn't say in six years, so she could hook up ours or yours or ours a little bit, but she said in the last three years, because that's a good thing to the people. Let's say today she said that the judiciary should listen to the people. The last time it happened, it was almost 2,000 years ago in Jerusalem, it didn't end well, it wasn't a fair verdict. So it's one in a series of such statements where here's the minister you've turned out to be a collateral victim of the president's leprosy lately. It's not a good song, it's a good thing she didn't sing you, be careful how it goes and it can happen. You are otherwise Mr. Minister I see in a permanent conflict with the Minister of Finance. You'd like more money for your portfolio, and that Minister of Finance won't, and the result is he's the most popular, and you're the most unpopular of those who've stayed. Therefore, there is little to learn. Namely, when asked, I found this from the survey, wondering which ministers were the most successful and then of all ministers you are the last ministers with 26, and worse than you by rating is Minister Marko Pavić with 18%. Although this pension reform has turned out to be a constant circular process, 40 billion will be spent first and then 40 billion will not be spent, so it will move to this for the eu funds, then this second minister Aladrovic will first strongly oppose the unions and strongly agree to what the trade unions are looking for, so he strongly opposes employers so today he has agreed to what employers say, so that you will have competition among these citizens in the perception of the worst citizens. Maybe you'll move not third place from below. And now that they've gone after Minister Divjak, maybe she's taking that place. But when you ask who should leave the government then Mr. Health Minister is the first one you can choose, and not now more, he's 25%, and then he's next about 2% to 3%, so obviously we're not the only ones from the opposition, we're not the only ones who think the minister should leave. So that's 32 that they signed plus something that will vote past those 32, that's 25% of the citizens that he should, like when you pick one, when you ask who's the most successful, that means 74% thinks he's not successful, the President of the Republic, I don't think the finance minister would object to someone asking for less money, so it's a broad front, Mr. Ministers who think you should leave, and I noticed something today while the prime minister held an opening statement. In fact, when he talks about the EU, about Europe, about international politics, he sees himself enjoying it, so what, a broad smile, a view, a glare in the eyes, less cynicism than when he talks about, then these are questions about the EU. Then follow the second level of questions about domestic policy and opposition. Then there's a smaller smile, but there's still cynicism. Then they ask him about the internal relations in HDZ, if he's brother then the face, if she's the 4th when they ask him about the godfather and... conflict of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's, that's something terrible. So in this categorization from 1 to 4 therefore, Europe, the opposition, HDZ and the godfather, he was somewhere between this 0.1 and 1.5, so he was reading something there, there was no glow in his eyes, what bureaucratically read was this when he spoke the government's opinion of the minister and of this gesticulation, mimic, color of voice and tonality could be concluded that he would continue to defend it until the first drop of blood. So, when it harms him to have Minister Kujundzic as minister, then he won't be a minister anymore, as it was worth it for all the others he replaced because he first defended them, watched paper by paper, as he said, paper by paper, he didn't look at articles, he looked at paper, but it doesn't matter. And then when we ask him why he replaced them at the current morning, he didn't answer any of them, so he probably won't answer for you once, but since you have the original mandate in the Assembly, there'll probably be something more cautious, and the mandate you got in your name and the name of the preferential votes, from the last place, if I remember correctly, it was in my constituency. So that's plus, that's why you stayed a little bit longer, that's not Tolusic, though it helped you, but it doesn't matter. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I had to give this one general political picture because in healthcare I don't understand as much except, as counterpart Hajdukovic would say from the patient's position, and not so often, thank God for now. And I hope that the next debate will not last this long and will be conducted within the constitutional deadline because this is a little bit of a tense interpretation of the Constitution. We could've met at the 8th month. One day, we'd talk less because it's a long day, it's season, it'd be forgotten, and you wouldn't argue much because everyone would wait to go home, but now we're going to go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166161	On behalf of the government, Minister Milan Kujundzic will now speak. Here you go. ... Two days. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Until Sunday.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166162	Honorable MPs and MPs. I thank you all for your discussions today. To you who are here and those who have not had the strength to endure to the end. I am especially grateful to murderers, cowards, knights, home counsel and undertakers. So, I'm particularly grateful to you, but let's talk now. So, I'm not here tonight alone, I have absolute support for both the party president and the majority in the Parliament. But, on the other hand, deep respect for your minds and your political careers, I know more about the shade of medicine than you do, so I can talk to you easily, so I didn't need any help, so we can talk about medicine whenever you want and as much as you want. But that's irrelevant, too. Let's do a nice recapitulation. So I saw you contradictingly discussing, at one point taking care of sisters, doctors, at one point patients, in the third about something third. So the facts are as follows. In the term of the government, having primarily in mind that they are the most important people, the number of doctors increased by about 2,000 and the number of nurses increased by about 2,000. Also, their salaries increased by about 18%. So that's the most important thing because you say that people are the most important thing to you. Indeed, I share with you this view, only when you flee to the other side, then you would not give money. So now they'd be given at some point, sometimes you wouldn't give them the money. And we would give them, and in particular we would pay those who know. So, I look people in the eyes always and I say, some are paper medics, and some are people who know, who can now go to the hospital and do anything and help. Yeah, and I forgot. And tonight there are thousands of my patients with me who I have treated and thousands of family members of patients I no longer have, who I have treated. Tonight I have generations and generations of my students and specialists, so it's easy for me to talk to you about medicine, but it's hard to deal with the system as a whole, especially those who know the system. Don't read something like this in some manual and write it in half or on pages 13, nothing easier, I think if you give me the Internet for 10 minutes now, I'll write you all the problems that they have I don't know which planes and which submarines, nothing easier. And so I look at some of you talking, and when I went to you on the Internet, I look at CV, I think, My Lady, what they're going to talk about health care, they haven't learned anything yet, God forbid you don't learn about it. So, we should pay those who know and on this trail in the new law we have foreseen, the new Health Protection Act, that those who work more, have better results, that they should be paid, and CUS will see everyone who does, what does, what scope of procedures, which is sought in the state of Croatia, so accreditation is something that needs to be done. However, Croatian medicine, Croatian doctors, Croatian nurses are so accredited, so we know who we are looking for both neurologists and pulmologists and gastroenterologists, who no one has ever asked to reach. Given that there is nothing without people, in the mandate of this government we have clearly increased the number of specializations, so on average we increase 50% at the annual level, we have increased the number of specializations, so we have young people who will stay and know how to work. We also took care of their education, we provided money to pay for the education of these people, so that they will know how to work, we are on the trail and we are making serious Croatian Medical Assembly or societies making guidelines, so that we can be as effective as possible, as we can be diagnosed with as little treatment as possible, because as I said, many can talk, and it is rare to see clearly and so much important, CUS will show, there is no more hiding who and as an individual and as a hospital, so there is no hiding, there will be seen everything, who is a real teacher, who works on his own department, and who is on invented cathedrals of non-existent, and what I will activate the Ministry of Science and ask for a little consideration of how there has been and how he becomes a teacher at medical universities in the Republic. So, the Croatian public needs to know everything, as well as I do, and they need me every day from morning till tomorrow, so we'll start to analyze others a little bit, and then we'll see about that. So, I've shown you numbers, year by year, what happens to diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, according to that folk if it's a lie to a goat, it doesn't lie to a horn, so you can see how much magnets, CTs, transplants, cataracts, hips or I don't know what, so people tell you everything, look and you'll be all clear, not just how much machines are bought, so someone here says calling people, but keep in mind people are the most important, but without tools there's no trade, of course you don't have a job and you don't need tools, and we don't really know when we cut it, when you start bleeding if you don't have a catheter, if you can't do coagulation, which means you don't have a job, which means nothing easier than to write something and talk, so those who know what it knows, and when it goes bad prof. Mrssic knows when sepsis occurs in a transplanted patient what needs to be done, so few know, and many talk. To make a decision, nothing easier than at Ministry level, the government makes a decision to work now 349 hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, here someone has called us to decide on so many can talk, few can do, this government has provided money and the end of the construction of a hospital in Pula and the construction of a hospital in Rijeka for about 850 million, so that's not a story, that's reality, that's the future of Croatian citizens in those areas. As we have provided EU funds for feasibility studies and projects to build a national children's hospital as a phase of A University Hospital in Zagreb, but also University Hospitals in Split. With regard to the success of the withdrawal, so nothing easier than to talk, we will withdraw from the EU funds, not everyone knows that. My employees in the health system knew and withdrew 100% of the funds from EU funds, we created such a successful young team up at the Ministry of Health who are proud of me, who can send me anywhere and who will do the job as I am proud, this is not a story, here some sad messages to sisters, whatever they know about sisters, neither they know what it means to be in the hospital at midnight, nor at 3 o'clock, nor do they know what it means when a soul dies, but here I can talk to them a little bit, and I'll talk to them down in the Neretva Valley at the elections, and we'll see how it will go in the next election, there I'll be waiting for you there, you pick up those nice lights, but look into your eyes now, so I'll talk to you guys in the 9 months next election, and by then you'll be, and then you'll both come to Dubrovnik next Friday, you'll sign a contract to build the daily hospital in Metković, which you will not be talking, please. So, listen to me, please listen to me, so there will come those who know, not those who talk about sisters and doctors, so there are doctors from the Neretva Valley who have made careers in the Republic of Croatia and in the world who know how to work, so they will come to work and their friends will come from Split, Dubrovnik, Zagreb, and don't be afraid who will work there, and that the citizens down there will know and recognize it at the vote, and what you are sending here already crying messages to the sisters, please come on, come on, come on. In view of this, someone here has discussed nicely that one of the key problems is to reduce the number of hospitals and connect hospitals, it's really a serious problem that we need to solve, but we didn't invent this government, so we're going to go into it, you might have talked about it sometime, but you didn't dare to do it, and we started functionally connecting hospitals and on this trail we're going to persist and there'll be less, there'll be less departments, and later there'll be a hospital because we'll have to solve it, once we've already started to solve palitive care and respiratory centres. There is a financial, financial sustainability problem, it is serious and needs to be rationalised, but medicine accumulates and on this trail is difficult to deal with in rich countries, let alone in the Republic of Croatia, and the main problem of hospital breakdown in financial terms is when some 6 years ago. The drastically reduced limitations of hospitals that we are now helping because now that you are doing more and better you are actually doing in favour of your damage, so we're going to have to look for solutions at consensus, but we're going to talk to those who know, not those who are going to talk this little bit, who don't even understand what they're talking about. The problem of cancer is a serious problem and on this trail we have created a National Cancer Programme, we have obtained significant equipment for radiotherapy, we have introduced all forms of immunotherapy or all forms of biological therapy to deal with. Of course, there are also new cytostatics who can rarely be very expensive. As for the waiting list, by the number of procedures from year to year, we do more and more, medicine changes, diagnostics vary, sometimes not justified. And we're dealing with IT programs so I don't double that because I don't give a shit that I don't need to go to CT, but all the serious patients, not the emergency, serious patients, we've solved with our priority waiting lists. So when a sick man enters a doctor, this one recognizes that he has a serious illness, all the doors are open within 7 days where he can do all the diagnostic projects. Some have been playing a little bit with vaccines, not playing with vaccines, and it is a disease and death of children, and to better control it we have done it right now, it will be released within the next 2, 3 weeks an information programme for vaccines in which Croatia will be among the first in the world. As we were, unfortunately, until half a year ago, the last in the world in robotic surgery is now being positioned on the map of the world where people from other countries are now coming to education at our robot centre in Rebra. So it's one thing to talk and another to do and to know. As far as expensive medicines are concerned, they are on the one hand wealth, hope and results in the treatment and on the other hand raise costs, and these are the problems that we will unfortunately have. In order for us to deal with the costs as successfully as possible, this government has already made 45% of all medications and... materials through united public procurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Networks to save people's lives, we've had before in invasive cardiology, now we're developing into vascular, neuroradiology, RCP, and on this trail we've already got results, but tonight I've already given them these numbers. And the daily hospital in Metkovic will be, so you will be well invited. So no more talking, no more hiding, come next Friday, come next Friday. And even in the end a little joke, I can't make a little joke. I think tonight there's a Nobel Prize guaranteed by Dr. Jovanovic to you. So all that matters to you is the debt and the total liabilities are irrelevant. The translated turkey means it's only important that I don't have to pay off my loan next month and that I owe 100 or 300 kuna or millions that's irrelevant. So I think the Nobel Prize will welcome you, and I want it from your heart, and I want it nicely for all of you, to talk pleasantly, to look ourselves in the eye, so I am sportingly putting up with what you say to me, and to bear a little bit of sports and not to show your vanity here and show your knowledge. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166163	The record of the breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of the Grmoi. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166164	Respected Minister Kujundzic is calling for some elections at 9m. I don't know who's going to make the lists in HDZ if Plenkovic makes the lists, unfortunately we won't be able to face it. So I'm sorry we won't be able to face each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166165	Why do you abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure? I'm giving you a warning. Let's go to the replicas. He is the first respected representative of Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166166	Minister Kujundzic, I'm going to tell you some facts now. Facts why you need to be replaced. At KB Rebro in Zagreb I personally waited 7 hours, 7 hours waiting to be accepted for an emergency checkup. And that's not all, except you don't have the staff, when the IV was given, the medical technician was giving the same gloves to three patients. I was the first. On the other, he had blood-stained gloves, and then he went to the third with the same gloves. When I asked him why he was doing it, you know what he said? Do you know? He said he didn't have the means, that his superior told him it had to work that way. Man doesn't have the basic means to work. Here's a picture and an opportunity for you, it's you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166167	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166168	Thank you very much. Former Ministers, give me an answer to one simple question, and that's the Immunological Institute. Don't hide behind the SDP and the SDP government again, what the SDP government did. Four years you've had time to run the immune system, 32 million are paid out of the budget to pay workers who are there, social peace is fine but people would like to work. On the other hand, our plasma is extremely high quality. We should, according to the principles of the World Health Organization of the Council of Europe, produce from this plasma everything we need in Croatia on the principle of self-sufficiency, but obviously you have done nothing or started anything. You have some secret commission that does something, Milan Bandic sees it as a position to build villas there in Rockfeller's and that's what, that's a picture of what you're doing, so you're incapable of handling it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166169	Thank you. Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166170	People who know the problem are asking questions, and when those who don't know, then that's how it makes me laugh, but I have to be decent, so I'm not allowed in the Parliament. Yes, the plasma is an excellent and principle of self-sufficiency and security and the problems that are in Immunological, which you, Mrssić, know well what happened and how it was. We've solved the plasma in a way that we now process it in Austria and they're giving us back our plasma. But you're well informed, so literally today the money has been transferred where the adaptation of space will begin and the grandmother will start producing because what was immune and brand of immune and soybean is for you who know, it's one serious value. But if it's not doing it all, it's going all into oblivion, here's how we finally managed to get together and the money and we're moving into production... Thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166171	The next replica of the respected representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166172	Dear Ministers, this need to show in a very specific way how much you know, and how many others do not know that you are all down to some level of accounting is indicative and I think that it is actually talking about how insecure you are in the management of the ministry, and since the European Commission has given a clear assessment of your management of the ministry, I think that the European Commission is the right address where you should say that they only know how to write there in the European Commission and they don't know how to do anything. The European Commission is the right address, not us here, I don't know why you want us to be on a personal level of consciousness, but what I want to say is that the desire to humiliate others is actually saying that you're aware. How bad is the health system. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166173	Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166174	You've manifested your profession a little bit, but it wasn't an object here. So democracy involves the specificity of expressions, and now we can talk about consonants, accents, words, smiles, mimes, sights, if I were to read you from your face now I would read you anything, so it's all normal, so... But it's, it's people all normal, so here in HS people are looking into the eyes and talking, why you're having a personal experience, I'm having a nice conversation with you with arguments. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166175	Come on, come on, come on, don't, don't throw it out of the bench, do it all the time, then listen and shut up, be polite. All right, now the esteemed representative of Ines Strenja will speak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166176	We've said everything in this debate, and after these, I hope you've heard, really multiple times of personal threats, really in a situation where I'm really going to try and fight no matter what I don't get out of the MOST that the SDP wins because you've pissed at me and all of my people if HDZ stays in power because they know that I'm going to have to leave this country for which I fought, so I can talk about my patients because I'm 20 years old. As a neurologist done at KBC in Rijeka, I can speak to my patients, so someone deals with both intestines and abdomen, and someone deals with brain and blood vessels, and it doesn't matter at all here, it's our job, which is why we've been getting paid, but I think all those guys who talk about me are talking about me because I've been exposed to attacks, bombing grenades to get them out, to give them medical help, to expose myself, to get them out, and today they're alive, and some of them are disabled, a lot of them, even if you've seen this show Doctors and politicians, my commander surprised me very much, it was agreed 5 seconds to just turn around, and he brought the whole team, the whole set up of these guys, for example. It's the people I'm proud of when I see them walking around today to have their families and their children and they talk good about me. I feel good in this Republic as such people speak well of me, and now for the end, therefore the system in the Republic of Croatia, the health system exists because of the people who carry this system because they know that our citizens, our patients need their help. I wanted to point out here today that it was not sufficiently done from the position from which the minister was supposed to strengthen and help the primary health care survive because we have devastated our neighborhoods, we should have thought differently about what new hospitals we need, which should be completely abolished, which should be functionally integrated because today and today the hospital system is the most expensive part and spends most of the system, and it shouldn't be because you know that some hospitals are positive, and some are obviously in a very large minus. So I was also talking about HZZ, which should be financed in a completely different way, or here, to answer the question of the small limit of hospitals, and also the prices of services that are extremely low, and I wanted the most to talk about people today, about nurses who did not recognise the coefficients that SDP had abolished, which they were supposed to pay back, so both of them have sins, the nurses who deserve to valorize what they invested in their schooling, which they were doing, and they primarily talked about not only wages, in difficult conditions, in working conditions, which are really for one sister who is on 20 operating patients, who doesn't know how to do the night and go to her family, the other day shrinking in institutions where they don't have enough, where they work, where they have so many overtime hours that they also don't account well that if they go to use them in the other sisters's go. And doctors, doctors who do indeed sacrifice work, but who are brought into the situation that this minister tried to disable what is their right, so those who do not negotiate their rights, renegotiate on these overtime hours, talk about raises, but doctors may not even need raises, they should just pay for what they have earned, it may be even 2–500,00 kn that are not paid properly because overtime is not properly accounted for and these are the lawsuits, heavy and up to 2 billion kuna therefore, there was supposed to be a real dialogue plus the rest, so we can't make up for what's been really long, it's been done with no specialization, but something else will leave doctors in the Republic. You can't expect, especially weaker, weaker, financially weaker counties to do something, to grant apartments, to subsidize loans to doctors because they don't have enough resources for it, but that's why the state was the one, the health administration was supposed to figure out how to stop our doctors because we have 803,00 EUR per capita in the Republic, 3000 is the average for the whole of Europe, but in Romania there are 469, I told you 12.600,00 RON, that's 19.600,00 kn is the salary of an initial specialist, who is just a specialist, to be paid on duty, especially on a weekly basis, especially paid on the weekend. So what we're looking for is just, just move towards leaving those of you who wear this system because they can't handle it, we can't keep going to humanity. So, we wanted to talk about it today, we wanted to discuss the state of health in Croatia which of course works, we all opted for solidarity of public health and so we all fight only someone doing it with a fig in their pocket, and someone's fighting, even though this vote ends, they'll still fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166177	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Strenja, first of all to agree with you absolutely that enthusiasts and individuals wear this system, not the only ones who carry it to the Republic of Croatia, secondly to thank you for sharing the objective obviously, which is to introduce order into health, to make it more sustainable and accessible to our citizens, and that is what the SDP stands for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166179	Thank you. You want to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166180	Yeah, I'm sorry I didn't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166181	Okay, you haven't answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166182	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166184	The hours are late, so my colleague, there have been different aspects here today, and I am glad that part of the MPs has been involved with their personal testimony that the system is not working. So we're not saying that the system is broken, but we're talking about situations where really, really in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, there's no available health care, and so it's equally available to us, written in the Constitution, and that's why we're fighting, too, and we're saying that there's something wrong in this system right now, so it's not good that we... We have the debts of 4.2 billion, so 8.9 are actually debts, so the ones that are the most choking us. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got big drugs lying around, standing behind this ministry's neck looking for money, and what have we done, we've given them 300 million and we're gonna give them another 200 to New Year's, and what have we done? Nothing. So they're still working the way they work. They charge They charge too much for our drugs. [[Intruder: Next...]] We haven't arranged the system. [[Intruder:...the replicas of the respected representative Petrov]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166186	My colleagues Strenja, not one thing touched, and I have to tell you in your presentation here I have to say my remarks, you said that you would need to pack your bags if, by any chance, HDZ is back in power that your only comfort is the possibility of SDP, I unfortunately have to kill you because it's not that safety either, you're not sure about the situation now if the SDP comes to power, the HDZ will also come to power, the big coalition, otherwise I can't agree, so if there's any consolation in that, I'm afraid that you'll be packing your suitcases.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166187	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this point, we will vote on it when the conditions are met, and we will continue work today at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act, first and second reading of P.Z. No. Which will be. Have a good night's rest. Interrupt session at 12:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166188	Proposal to launch a trust issue with Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health in the government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposals are 32 MPs and MPs, the debate is closed. In accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for making a decision on showing confidence to a member of the government require a half-dozen majority of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes. But before we go to the vote, fellow Jovanovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166189	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives in order to discuss once again the problems in the health system and to give the other representatives the opportunity to reconsider whether or not to give confidence to Minister Kujundzic who, by his ineffectiveness, brought the health system of the Republic of Croatia to complete collapse. The right to health must be solidarity, comprehensive and accessible to all, which is not the case in Croatia at this time. Minister Kujundzic has only shown additionally how he does not have the knowledge and experience needed to run such a complex and responsible system and with this arrogance hides his incompetence. In Croatia, every segment of the health system is at risk. Staff management, personnel resources are catastrophic, the only thing that saves the Croatian healthcare system from collapse is the labor of all staff of nurses, health workers and doctors, and the minister's attitude towards them is underestimating and therefore leads to a growing number of nurses and doctors and other healthcare professionals leaving Croatia every day. Second, waiting lists are getting longer every day. There is the most money available in history, but waiting lists are all the longer that leads to the silent privatisation of healthcare because those who don't have money simply can't wait, and those who have money pay that money to private polyclinics and thus try to save their lives. But the key why the minister can no longer do his job is that he has failed to ensure the financial sustainability of the health system. In 2019, Croatian health has 26 billion kunas that have never been in history, while receiving an additional 2.2 billion from the Ministry of Finance. With all this, a new debt of 133 million kuna is created each month, leading to a complete collapse of the health system in the long term. Therefore, Minister Kujundzic no longer deserves to run health care in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166190	Okay, the break will be approved. Here's my colleague Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166191	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am asking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to once again point out that the opposition sought the recall of a minister on the basis of something which was actually quite embarrassing because it consisted of letters and figures of a single page text on which they were unable to argue a single remark. There was no indication of what the minister wanted to be replaced, so it was a very serious thing, he did wrong, in which he made a mistake, which he so fatally made for Croatian health care that he should be replaced. There is no single figure on this miserable clock on one single page, and there is talk of financing Croatian health care, etc., etc. At a time when some of those who signed the article were in power were hospitals of thousands of days and are now surprised if one hospital is also in length for a thousand days. But the term debt is used, and it's not a debt at all, it's a commitment or a total commitment, and they created a completely wrong picture of the public about the state of Croatian health. On the one hand, they claim that doctors and nurses work hard and work hard with what I absolutely agree with, and on the other hand they say that they are not that The ones in the collapse, that they're all gone and that nothing's wrong. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Reiner.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166192	Thank you. I'll approve the recess, so we've got three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166193	Dear President of the Parliament. Parliamentarian and Vice-President of this Parliament Reiner injured Article 238 and not only parliamentary representatives but also absolutely all those who today do any work in Croatia. Because I can only ask one question to Mr. Rainer because if you're getting paid when something is made or nothing needs to be done and getting paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166194	Thank you, colleague Petrov, time is up, this is a clear reminder, the breach of the Rules of Procedure here has absolutely nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your colleague, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166195	Your Honor, Mr. President, the vice president of this House, Mr. Rainer, has injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, bringing forth a bunch of lies and thereby insulting not only the present but also the entire Croatian public. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, the long hospital has grown 2.5 times for Mr. Kujundzic's term. You created 2.5 billion kunas in Croatian hospitals and you now You're talking about some pages here. [[The incursion president: I thank my colleague Grbin.]] Everything Mr. Kujundaj did in his term /The speaker is disabled./... [[Intruder president: colleague Grbin, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166196	My fellow coat of arms, please sit down. You're being warned. Comrade Grbin, you get a warning and you and I invite you all not to violate the Rules of Procedure in this way, these are very, very not even sophisticated ways, very, very primitive ways of actually breaking the Rules of Procedure where you actually use it for replicas and please do not do so. We've talked about this more than once, and I think we need to stick to the Rules of Procedure out of the correctness of each other. Here you go, fellow Sagittarius.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166197	Thank you. I'm interested in my colleague Reiner whether you'd have enough and if we'd written 50 pages. No, like this, right, buddy, mate, just a little bit. [[The incursion of the president: My fellow Srenja, which is injured, you are now de-polemising, about what you are now?]] My colleague, Reiner, injured Article 238 because he said it was a pathetic piece and he insulted everyone who gave consent and a list of those calls and said we didn't overwrite the proposal. [[President: And what's hurt?]] So, colleague Reiner, I was wondering if you'd vote differently. that we explained it on 50 pages [[Intruder president: colleagues of Stenje, please.]] It is sad to deceive all Croatian citizens [[/Strenja colleagues.]] /Conversation is disabled./... [[Intruder president: colleagues of Srenja, come on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166198	Comrade Strenja, please sit down, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you're also getting a warning. Now, a colleague of Bacic will probably get a warning, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166199	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think there's any need for you to give me a warning because I now claim that I, too, have responded to the presentation of fellow Petrova. Article 238 speaks, namely, you misused the Rules of Procedure, you did not explain in anything what the injured Rules of Procedure was in, but you replicated. But that doesn't surprise me, nor does it surprise me, because you, your MPs, have said they would do anything to make the SDP do in the next election. So, according to this, your agreement with what Mr. Jovanovic said is on the trail of the message. the voice for the MOST is the voice for the SDP. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bačić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166200	My colleague Bačić and you also hurt the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. So wait a minute, I gave you a warning too. It is therefore my fellow Members and colleagues who judge what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure and which is not and which makes warnings accordingly. So if I'm giving someone a warning, you're no longer in charge of you, you're not the one who's obliged to remind and indicate whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been injured and I said that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. ... He got a warning, he got a warning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So please, now if you're going to re-enter the replicas, my only option is to give you warnings and I'm going to give you but it's not right for all of us sitting here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166201	Dear President, I'll take my chances with another warning to tell Mr. Bacic the following, don't worry, we won't be on that train that you're taking with the SDP, we won't be your competition, neither you nor them. Get married freely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166202	You're getting a second warning. Come on, just a minute, just a second, just a second, colleagues and colleagues. So, I'm not going to let what we're doing right now, and that's voting to turn into abuse of the Rules of Procedure's violation of the entire Rules of Procedure that we have, which we did so we could do in order to work in order. What's happening now is a deliberate, conscious violation of the Rules of Procedure for replication, that's what you fellow Petrov yourself said, and now I'm going to sacrifice another warning, you know that. I suppose that's what my colleague Grmoy and colleague Bauk and colleague Maras will do, so I'd like to ask you to give up on hurting the Rules of Procedure especially if you mean using them in the sense of replication. ... Yours isn't a replica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166203	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Bacic hurt Article 238, because he made a clean lie. So he used the phrase Ivo Sanader, the vote for HSP, the vote for SDP when he wore black bags and actually proved that the vote for HDZ was the voice for the systematic robbery of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166204	A fellow bush of the session, you get, just a little bit of a colleague Bačić, so you get a reminder from your colleagues, but what's worse than a warning is that you cheated on me, so you lied about not doing a replica and you did a replica. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the break is up to 12.55. Which is a colleague of Vlaovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166205	On behalf of the HSS and Democrats club, I am also asking for a break to consult on how we will vote on this issue because The fact that... [[President: So your president asked for a break, session, break is up to 12.55.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-16-0.u166206	My colleague Beljak asked for a break, please coordinate at least a little. MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.56 HOURS]] So, I am voting for a decision to show no confidence in Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that 127 MPs voted in favour of the decision to show no confidence, against 79, abstentioned 0 and 48. So, I find that no decision has been taken to show no confidence in Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
